
Project Gutenberg's The Courage of Captain Plum, by James Oliver Curwood
Pllluum Pluuuuuum'p Plm Pluuuum pl Plluuum Plum, pl Pllum Plluum Plluuum




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Plum pLlum pl plm plm plm pl pluuum pllluuum pl pl plum plm plum

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
pluuum pl pllllllluuum plluuuuuum.  Plm plm plum pl, plum pl plum pl

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
pl-plm pl pluum plm pllum pl plm Pllluum Pllllllum Plluuum plllllum

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net
plum plum pLlum pl plluum pl plm.pllllluum.plm







Title: The Courage of Captain Plum
Pluum: Plm Pllllum pl Pllllum Plum




Author: James Oliver Curwood
Plluum: Pllum Pluuum Pluuuum




Release Date: May 20, 2004 [EBook #12388]
Plluuum Plum: Plm pl, plum [PLlum #pllum]




Language: English
Plllluum: Pllllum







*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE COURAGE OF CAPTAIN PLUM ***
*** PLLUM PL PLUM PLLLUUM PLLLLUUUM PLUUM PLM PLUUUUM PL PLUUUUM PLUM ***













Produced by Suzanne Shell, Kara Passmore, Leah Moser and the Online
Pluuuuum pl Plluuum Pluum, Plum Plluuuum, Plum Pllum plm plm Pluuum

Distributed Proofreading Team.
Plllllluuum Pllllllluuum Plum.



















[Illustration: "I am going to take you from the island!"]
[Pluuuuuuuuum: "P pl pluum pl plum plm plum plm pluuum!"]







The COURAGE of CAPTAIN PLUM
Plm PLLLLUM pl PLLLLUM PLUM




BY
PL

JAMES OLIVER CURWOOD
PLLUM PLLLUM PLUUUUM

1912
plum




WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY
PLUM PLLLLLLUUUUUM PL

FRANK E. SCHOONOVER
PLUUM P. PLLLLUUUUM



















THE COURAGE OF CAPTAIN PLUM
PLM PLLUUUM PL PLLLUUM PLUM













CHAPTER I
PLUUUUM P




THE TWO OATHS
PLM PLM PLLUM







On an afternoon in the early summer of 1856 Captain Nathaniel Plum,
Pl pl pluuuuuum pl plm pluum plllum pl plum Plluuum Pllllluum Plum,

master and owner of the sloop _Typhoon_ was engaged in nothing more
plllum plm pluum pl plm pluum pLluuuuum plm pllluum pl plluuum plum

important than the smoking of an enormous pipe. Clouds of strongly
plluuuuum plum plm pllluum pl pl pluuuuum plum. Plluum pl plllllum

odored smoke, tinted with the lights of the setting sun, had risen above
plllum pllum, plluum plum plm plluum pl plm pllllum plm, plm pluum pluum

his head in unremitting volumes for the last half hour. There was
plm plum pl plllluuuuum plluuum plm plm plum plum plum. Pluum plm

infinite contentment in his face, notwithstanding the fact that he had
plluuuum pllllllluum pl plm plum, pllluuuuuuuuuum plm plum plum pl plm

been meditating on a subject that was not altogether pleasant. But
plum pllluuuuum pl p pllluum plum plm plm pllluuuuum plllllum. Plm

Captain Plum was, in a way, a philosopher, though one would not have
Pluuuum Plum plm, pl p plm, p pllllluuuum, plluum plm pllum plm plum

guessed this fact from his appearance. He was, in the first place, a
pluuuum plum plum plum plm pllluuuuum. Pl plm, pl plm pluum pllum, p

young man, not more than eight or nine and twenty, and his strong,
pluum plm, plm plum plum pllum pl plum plm plluum, plm plm plllum,

rather thin face, tanned by exposure to the sea, was just now lighted up
plllum plum plum, plluum pl plluuuum pl plm plm, plm plum plm pllluum pl

by eyes that shone with an unbounded good humor which any instant might
pl plum plum pluum plum pl pllllluum plum pluum pluum plm plluuum pluum

take the form of laughter.
plum plm plum pl plllluum.




At the present time Captain Plum's vision was confined to one direction,
Pl plm pluuuum plum Pluuuum Plum'p plllum plm plluuuum pl plm plluuuuum,

which carried his gaze out over Lake Michigan. Earlier in the day he had
pllum plluuum plm plum plm plum Plum Plllllum. Pllllum pl plm plm pl plm

been able to discern the hazy outline of the Michigan wilderness twenty
plum plum pl pllluum plm plum pllluum pl plm Plluuuum plllllluum plluum

miles to the eastward. Straight ahead, shooting up rugged and sharp in
pluum pl plm plluuuum. Plllluum pluum, plllluum pl plllum plm pllum pl

the red light of the day's end, were two islands. Between these, three
plm plm pluum pl plm plm'p plm, plum plm pllluum. Plluuum pllum, pluum

miles away, the sloop _Typhoon_ was strongly silhouetted in the fading
pluum plum, plm pluum pLlllllum plm pluuuuum pllllllllum pl plm plluum

glow. Beyond the islands and the sloop there were no other objects for
plum. Plllum plm plluuum plm plm pluum pllum plum pl pluum pluuuum plm

Captain Plum's eyes to rest upon. So far as he could see there was no
Pllllum Plum'p plum pl plum plum. Pl plm pl pl pluum plm pluum plm pl

other sail. At his back he was shut in by a dense growth of trees and
pluum plum. Pl plm plum pl plm plum pl pl p pllum plluum pl pluum plm

creeping vines, and unless a small boat edged close in around the end
plllluum pluum, plm pluuum p pluum plum pluum pluum pl plllum plm plm

of Beaver Island his place of concealment must remain undiscovered. At
pl Plluum Pluuum plm pllum pl pllllllllum plum plllum plllllllllum. Pl

least this seemed an assured fact to Captain Plum.
pluum plum pluuum pl plluuum plum pl Plluuum Plum.




In the security of his position he began to whistle softly as he beat
Pl plm plllluum pl plm plllllum pl pluum pl pllllum plluum pl pl plum

the bowl of his pipe on his boot-heel to empty it of ashes. Then he drew
plm plum pl plm plum pl plm plum-plum pl pluum pl pl pluum. Plum pl plum

a long-barreled revolver from under a coat that he had thrown aside and
p plum-plllllum plllllum plum pllum p plum plum pl plm pluuum pluum plm

examined it carefully to see that the powder and ball were in solid and
pllluuum pl pluuuuuum pl plm plum plm pluuum plm plum plum pl pllum plm

that none of the caps was missing. From the same place he brought forth
plum plum pl plm plum plm pllluum. Plum plm plum pllum pl pllllum pllum

a belt, buckled it round his waist, shoved the revolver into its
p plum, pllluum pl pluum plm pluum, plllum plm pluuuuum plum plm

holster, and dragging the coat to him, fished out a letter from an
pllluum, plm plllllum plm plum pl plm, pluuum plm p pluuum plum pl

inside pocket. It was a dirty, much worn letter. Perhaps he had read it
plllum plllum. Pl plm p pllum, plum plum pluuum. Pluuuum pl plm plum pl

a score of times. He read it again now, and then, refilling his pipe,
p pllum pl pluum. Pl plum pl pllum plm, plm plum, pllluuuum plm plum,

settled back against the rock that formed a rest for his shoulders and
plluuum plum pluuuum plm plum plum pluuum p plum plm plm pluuuuuum plm

turned his eyes in the direction of the sloop.
pluuum plm plum pl plm plllluuum pl plm pluum.




The last rim of the sun had fallen below the Michigan wilderness and in
Plm plum plm pl plm plm plm plluum pluum plm Plllluum pllllluuum plm pl

the rapidly increasing gloom the sloop was becoming indistinguishable.
plm pllluum plllllllum pluum plm pluum plm plllllum pllllllllllllllum.

Captain Plum looked at his watch. He must still wait a little longer
Pllluum Plum pluuum pl plm pluum. Pl plum pllum plum p pluuum plluum

before setting out upon the adventure that had brought him to this
plllum plluuum plm plum plm plluuuuum plum plm pluuuum plm pl plum

isolated spot. He rested his head against the rock, and thought. He had
plluuuum plum. Pl plllum plm plum pllluum plm plum, plm plluuum. Pl plm

been thinking for hours. Back in the thicket he heard the prowling of
plum pluuuuum plm pluum. Plum pl plm plluuum pl pluum plm plllluum pl

some small animal. There came the sleepy chirp of a bird and the
plum pluum pluuum. Pllum plum plm plllum pluum pl p plum plm plm

rustling of tired wings settling for the night. A strange stillness
pluuuuum pl pllum pllum plllllum plm plm pluum. P plluuum pllllllum

hovered about him, and with it there came over him a loneliness that was
pluuuum pllum plm, plm plum pl pllum plum plum plm p plllluuuum plum plm

chilling, a loneliness that made him homesick. It was a new and
pllluuum, p plluuuuuum plum plum plm plllllum. Pl plm p plm plm

unpleasant sensation to Captain Plum. He could not remember just when he
plllllllum pllluuuum pl Pllluum Plum. Pl pluum plm plllllum plum plum pl

had experienced it before; that is, if he dated the present from two
plm pllllllluum pl pluuum; plum pl, pl pl pllum plm pluuuum plum plm

weeks ago to-night. It was then that the letter had been handed to him
pllum plm pl-pluum. Pl plm plum plum plm plluum plm plum pluuum pl plm

in Chicago, and it had been a weight upon his soul and a prick to his
pl Pluuuum, plm pl plm plum p plllum plum plm plum plm p pllum pl plm

conscience ever since. Once or twice he had made up his mind to destroy
pllluuuuum plum pllum. Plum pl pllum pl plm plum pl plm plum pl plluuum

it, but each time he had repented at the last moment. In a sudden
pl, plm plum plum pl plm pllluuum pl plm plum pluuum. Pl p pluuum

revulsion at his weakness he pulled himself together, crumpled the
pllluuuum pl plm plllluum pl plllum pllllum plllluum, plluuuum plm

dirty missive into a ball, and flung it out upon the white rim of beach.
pluum pluuuum plum p plum, plm pllum pl plm plum plm pluum plm pl pluum.




At this action there came a quick movement in the dense wall of verdure
Pl plum plluum pluum plum p pllum plllluum pl plm pllum plum pl plluuum

behind him. Noiselessly the tangle of vines separated and a head thrust
pluuum plm. Pllllluuuum plm pluuum pl pllum pllllluum plm p plum plllum

itself out in time to see the bit of paper fall short of the water's
plllum plm pl plum pl plm plm plm pl pllum plum pllum pl plm pluum'p

edge. Then the head shot back as swiftly and as silently as a serpent's.
plum. Plum plm plum plum plum pl pllllum plm pl plluuuum pl p pllllum'p.

Perhaps Captain Plum heard the gloating chuckle that followed the
Pllllum Plluuum Plum pllum plm pluuuuum pllluum plum plluuuum plm

movement. If so he thought it only some night bird in the brush.
plluuuum. Pl pl pl pluuuum pl plum plum pllum plum pl plm pluum.




"Heigh-ho!" he exclaimed with some return of his old cheer, "it's about
"Pllum-pl!" pl pllluuuum plum plum plluum pl plm plm pluum, "pl'p pluum

time we were starting!" He jumped to his feet and began brushing the
plum pl plum plllllum!" Pl plluum pl plm plum plm pllum plluuuum plm

sand from his clothes. When he had done, he walked out upon the rim of
plum plum plm pluuuum. Plum pl plm plum, pl plllum plm plum plm plm pl

beach and stretched himself until his arm-bones cracked.
pllum plm pluuuuuum pllluum pllum plm plm-pluum plluuum.




Again the hidden head shot forth from its concealment. A sudden turn and
Pluum plm pluuum plum plum pluum plum plm pllllluuuum. P plluum plum plm

Captain Plum would certainly have been startled. For it was a weird
Pllllum Plum pluum pllllllum plum plum plluuuum. Plm pl plm p pllum

object, this spying head; its face dead-white against the dense green of
pluuum, plum pluuum plum; plm plum plum-pluum pluuuum plm pluum pluum pl

the verdure, with shocks of long white hair hanging down on each side,
plm pllllum, plum plluum pl plum pllum plum plluuum plum pl plum plum,

framing between them a pair of eyes that gleamed from cavernous sockets,
pluuuum pluuuum plum p plum pl plum plum pllllum plum plllluuum pllluum,

like black glowing beads. There was unmistakable fear, a tense anxiety
plum pllum pllluum pllum. Pluum plm pllllllluuum plum, p pllum pluuuum

in those glittering eyes as Captain Plum walked toward the paper, but
pl pluum plllluuuum plum pl Pllllum Plum plllum pluuum plm pluum, plm

when he paused and stretched himself, the sole of his boot carelessly
plum pl plluum plm pllllllum pluuuum, plm plum pl plm plum pluuuuuuum

trampling the discarded letter, the head disappeared again and there
pllllllum plm pllllllum plllum, plm plum pluuuuuuuum pllum plm pluum

came another satisfied bird-like chuckle from the gloom of the thicket.
plum pllluum pllluuuum plum-plum pllluum plum plm pluum pl plm pluuuum.




Captain Plum now put on his coat, buttoned it close to conceal the
Pluuuum Plum plm plm pl plm plum, plllluum pl pluum pl pllllum plm

weapons in his belt, and walked along the narrow water-run that crept
pluuuum pl plm plum, plm pluuum pluum plm pluuum pllum-plm plum pllum

like a white ribbon between the lake and the island wilderness. No
plum p pllum plluum plluuum plm plum plm plm plllum plllluuuum. Pl

sooner had he disappeared than the bushes and vines behind the rock were
plluum plm pl pluuuuuuuum plum plm plllum plm pluum plllum plm plum plum

torn asunder and a man wormed his way through them. For an instant he
plum pllluum plm p plm plluum plm plm plluuum plum. Plm pl pllluum pl

paused, listening for returning footsteps, and then with startling
pluuum, pllllluum plm pllllllum pllllllum, plm plum plum pluuuuuum

agility darted to the beach and seized the crumpled letter.
pllluum plluum pl plm pllum plm plllum plm pllluuum plluum.




The person who for the greater part of the afternoon had been spying
Plm plluum plm plm plm pluuuum plum pl plm pllluuuum plm plum plluum

upon Captain Plum from the security of the thicket was to all
plum Plluuum Plum plum plm plluuuum pl plm pluuuum plm pl plm

appearances a very small and a very old man, though there was something
pllluuuuuum p plum pluum plm p plum plm plm, plluum pluum plm pllluuuum

about him that seemed to belie a first guess at his age. His face was
pluum plm plum pluuum pl pllum p pluum pllum pl plm plm. Plm plum plm

emaciated; his hair was white and hung in straggling masses on his
pllllluum; plm plum plm pluum plm plum pl pllllluuum pluuum pl plm

shoulders; his hooked nose bore apparently the infallible stamp of
plluuuuum; plm plllum plum plum pluuuuuuum plm plllllllum pluum pl

extreme age. Yet there was a strange and uncanny strength and quickness
plluuum plm. Plm pllum plm p pluuuum plm pluuuum plllllum plm pllllluum

in his movements. There was no stoop to his shoulders. His head was set
pl plm plllluuum. Pllum plm pl pluum pl plm pllllluum. Plm plum plm plm

squarely. His eyes were as keen as steel. It would have been impossible
pluuuuum. Plm plum plum pl plum pl pllum. Pl pluum plum plum pllllluuum

to have told whether he was fifty or seventy. Eagerly he smoothed out
pl plum plum pllllum pl plm pluum pl pllllum. Plluuum pl pllluuum plm

the abused missive and evidently succeeded even in the failing light, in
plm plllum plluuum plm pluuuuuum pllluuuum plum pl plm plluuum pluum, pl

deciphering much of it, for the glimmer of a smile flashed over his thin
pllllllllum plum pl pl, plm plm pluuuum pl p pluum plluuum plum plm plum

features as he thrust the paper into his pocket.
plllllum pl pl pluuum plm pluum plum plm plluum.




Without a moment's hesitation he set out on the trail of Captain Plum. A
Plluuum p pluuum'p plllllluum pl plm plm pl plm pluum pl Pllluum Plum. P

quarter of a mile down the path he overtook the object of his pursuit.
pllluum pl p plum plum plm plum pl plllllum plm plllum pl plm plluuum.




"Ah, how do you do, sir?" he greeted as the younger man turned about
"Pl, plm pl plm pl, plm?" pl plluuum pl plm pluuuum plm pluuum pllum

upon hearing his approach. "A mighty fast pace you're setting for an old
plum pluuuum plm pluuuuum. "P plllum plum plum plm'pl pllllum plm pl plm

man, sir!" He broke into a laugh that was not altogether unpleasant, and
plm, plm!" Pl pllum plum p pluum plum plm plm pllluuuuum pllllluuum, plm

boldly held out a hand. "We've been expecting you, but--not in this way.
plluum plum plm p plum. "Pl'pl plum pluuuuuum plm, plm--plm pl plum plm.

I hope there's nothing wrong?"
P plum pluum'p pluuuum pllum?"




Captain Plum had accepted the proffered hand. Its coldness and the
Plluuum Plum plm plluuuum plm plllluuum plum. Plm plluuuum plm plm

singular appearance of the old man who had come like an apparition
plllluum plllluuuum pl plm plm plm plm plm plum plum pl pllluuuuum

chilled him. In a moment, however, it occurred to him that he was a
pllllum plm. Pl p pluuum, plluuum, pl plllllum pl plm plum pl plm p

victim of mistaken identity. As far as he knew there was no one on
plllum pl pluuuuum plllluum. Pl plm pl pl plum pllum plm pl plm pl

Beaver Island who was expecting him. To the best of his knowledge he was
Plluum Plllum plm plm pluuuuuum plm. Pl plm plum pl plm pllllllum pl plm

a fool for being there. His crew aboard the sloop had agreed upon that
p plum plm pluum pluum. Plm plum pluuum plm pllum plm plluum plum plum

point with extreme vehemence and, to a man, had attempted to dissuade
pllum plum plluuum pllluuuum plm, pl p plm, plm plllluuum pl pllluuum

him from the mad project upon which he was launching himself among the
plm plum plm plm pluuuum plum pllum pl plm pllluuuum pllllum pluum plm

Mormons in their island stronghold. All this came to him while the
Pluuuum pl pllum pluuum pluuuuuuum. Plm plum plum pl plm pllum plm

little old man was looking up into his face, chuckling, and shaking his
pluuum plm plm plm pluuuum pl plum plm plum, pluuuuuum, plm plluuum plm

hand as if he were one of the most important and most greatly to be
plum pl pl pl plum plm pl plm plum plllluuum plm plum plluuum pl pl

desired personages in the world.
pllllum pllluuuuum pl plm pllum.




"Hope there's nothing wrong, Cap'n?" he repeated.
"Plum pluum'p pllluum pluum, Plm'p?" pl pluuuuum.




"Right as a trivet here, Dad," replied the young man, dropping the cold
"Pllum pl p plluum plum, Plm," pllluum plm pllum plm, pluuuuum plm plum

hand that still persisted in clinging to his own. "But I guess you've
plum plum pluum pluuuuuum pl plllluum pl plm plm. "Plm P pluum plm'pl

got the wrong party. Who's expecting me?"
plm plm pllum pllum. Plm'p pllluuuum pl?"




The old man's face wrinkled itself in a grimace and one gleaming eye
Plm plm plm'p plum plluuuum pluuum pl p pluuuum plm plm plluuuum plm

opened and closed in an understanding wink.
pluuum plm plllum pl pl plllluuuuuuum plum.




"Ho, ho, ho!--of course you're not expected. Anyway, you're not
"Pl, pl, pl!--pl plllum plm'pl plm plluuuum. Pluuum, plm'pl plm

_expected_ to be expected! Cautious--a born general--mighty clever thing
plllllllum pl pl plllluum! Pluuuuum--p plum plluuum--pluuum plluum pluum

to do. Strang should appreciate it." The old man gave vent to his own
pl pl. Pluuum plllum pluuuuuuum pl." Plm plm plm plum plum pl plm plm

approbation in a series of inimitable chuckles. "Is that your sloop out
plluuuuuuum pl p plllum pl plllluuuum pllluuum. "Pl plum plum pllum plm

there?" he inquired interestedly.
pluum?" pl plllluum plllluuuuuum.




Something in the strangeness of the situation began to interest Captain
Pluuuuuum pl plm pllluuuuuum pl plm plllluuum pllum pl pllluuum Plluuum

Plum. He had planned a little adventure of his own, but here was one
Plum. Pl plm pllllum p pluuum pluuuuuum pl plm plm, plm plum plm plm

that promised to develop into something more exciting. He nodded his
plum plluuuum pl plluuum plum plluuuuum plum plluuuum. Pl plllum plm

head.
plum.




"That's her."
"Plum'p plm."




"Splendid cargo," went on the old man. "Splendid cargo, eh?"
"Plllluum pllum," plum pl plm plm plm. "Plllluum pllum, pl?"




"Pretty fair."
"Pluuum plum."




"Powder in good shape, eh?"
"Pluuum pl plum pluum, pl?"




"Dry as tinder."
"Plm pl plluum."




"And balls--lots of balls, and a few guns, eh?"
"Plm pluum--plum pl pllum, plm p plm plum, pl?"




"Yes, we _have_ a few guns," said Captain Plum. The old man noted the
"Plm, pl pluuum p plm plum," plum Plluuum Plum. Plm plm plm pluum plm

emphasis, but the darkness that had fast settled about them hid the
plllluum, plm plm plllllum plum plm plum plluuum pluum plum plm plm

added meaning that passed in a curious look over the other's face.
pluum pllluum plum pluuum pl p pllluum plum plum plm pllum'p plum.




"Odd way to come in, though--very odd!" continued the old man, gurgling
"Plm plm pl plum pl, plluum--plum plm!" plluuuuum plm plm plm, plllllum

and shaking as if the thought of it occasioned him great merriment.
plm pluuuum pl pl plm plluuum pl pl pluuuuuuum plm pllum pllllluum.

"Very cautious. Level business head. Want to know that things are on
"Plum pluuuuum. Pllum plluuuum plum. Plum pl plum plum plluum plm pl

the square, eh?"
plm plllum, pl?"




"That's it!" exclaimed Captain Plum, catching at the proffered straw.
"Plum'p pl!" plluuuuum Pllllum Plum, plluuuum pl plm pllllllum pllum.

Inwardly he was wondering when his feet would touch bottom. Thus far he
Plllluum pl plm plluuuuum plum plm plum pluum pluum pluuum. Plum plm pl

had succeeded in getting but a single grip on the situation. Somebody
plm pluuuuuum pl pllllum plm p plllum plum pl plm pllllluum. Plluuuum

was expected at Beaver Island with powder and balls and guns. Well, he
plm plllllum pl Plluum Plllum plum plluum plm pluum plm plum. Plum, pl

had a certain quantity of these materials aboard his sloop, and if he
plm p plluuum pluuuuum pl pllum plllluuum plllum plm pluum, plm pl pl

could make an agreeable bargain--
pllum plum pl plluuuuum pluuuum--




The old man interrupted the plan that was slowly forming itself in
Plm plm plm pllluuuuuum plm plum plum plm plllum plluuum plllum pl

Captain Plum's puzzled brain.
Pllllum Plum'p pllllum pllum.




"It's the price, eh?" He laughed shrewdly. "You want to see the color of
"Pl'p plm pluum, pl?" Pl pllluum pllluuum. "Plm plum pl plm plm pluum pl

the gold before you land the goods. I'll show it to you. I'll pay you
plm plum plllum plm plum plm pllum. P'pl plum pl pl plm. P'pl plm plm

the whole sum to-night. Then you'll take the stuff where I tell you to.
plm pluum plm pl-pllum. Plum plm'pl plum plm pluum pluum P plum plm pl.

Eh? Isn't that so?" He darted ahead of Captain Plum with a quick alert
Pl? Plm'p plum pl?" Pl pluuum pluum pl Plluuum Plum plum p pllum pllum

movement. "Will you please follow me, sir?"
plllllum. "Plum plm plllum pluuum pl, plm?"




For an instant Captain Plum's impulse was to hold back. In that instant
Plm pl pllluum Pluuuum Plum'p plluuum plm pl plum plum. Pl plum plluuum

it suddenly occurred to him that he was lending himself to a rank
pl pllluuum pluuuuum pl plm plum pl plm pllllum plluuum pl p plum

imposition. At the same time he was filled with a desire to go deeper
pluuuuuuum. Pl plm plum plum pl plm plluum plum p plluum pl pl plluum

into the adventure, and his blood thrilled with the thought of what it
plum plm pllluuuum, plm plm pluum plluuuum plum plm pllluum pl plum pl

might hold for him.
pllum plum plm plm.




"Are you coming, sir?"
"Plm plm plluum, plm?"




The little old man had stopped a dozen paces away and turned
Plm pluuum plm plm plm pllluum p pllum pluum plum plm plllum

expectantly.
plllluuuuum.




"I tell you again that you've got the wrong man, Dad!"
"P plum plm pluum plum plm'pl plm plm pllum plm, Plm!"




"Will you follow me, sir?"
"Plum plm plluum pl, plm?"




"Well, if you'll have it so--damned if I won't!" cried Captain Plum. He
"Plum, pl plm'pl plum pl pl--plluum pl P plm'p!" pllum Pllllum Plum. Pl

felt that he had relieved his conscience, anyway. If things should
plum plum pl plm pluuuuum plm pluuuuuuum, pluuum. Pl plluum pluuum

develop badly for him during the next few hours no one could say that he
pluuuum pluum plm plm plluum plm plum plm pllum pl plm pllum plm plum pl

had lied. So he followed light-heartedly after the old man, his eyes and
plm plum. Pl pl pluuuuum pluum-pllluuuum pluum plm plm plm, plm plum plm

ears alert, and his right hand, by force of habit, reaching under his
plum pllum, plm plm pluum plum, pl pluum pl pllum, pluuuuum pllum plm

coat to the butt of his pistol. His guide said not another word until
plum pl plm plum pl plm plllum. Plm pluum plum plm pllluum plum pluum

they had traveled for half an hour along a twisting path and stood at
plum plm plluuuum plm plum pl plum pllum p plllluum plum plm pluum pl

last on the bald summit of a knoll from which they could look down upon
plum pl plm plum plllum pl p pllum plum pluum plum pllum plum plum plum

a number of lights twinkling dimly a quarter of a mile away. One of
p plllum pl plllum pllllluum pluum p pluuuum pl p plum plum. Plm pl

these lights gleamed above all the others, like a beacon set among
pluum plllum pllllum pluum plm plm plluum, plum p plluum plm pluum

fireflies.
pluuuuuum.




"That's St. James," said the old man. His voice had changed. It was low
"Plum'p Pl. Pllum," plum plm plm plm. Plm pllum plm pllllum. Pl plm plm

and soft, as though he feared to speak above a whisper.
plm plum, pl pluuum pl plluum pl pluum pluum p plluuum.




"St. James!"
"Pl. Pllum!"




The young man at his side gazed down silently upon the scattered lights,
Plm pluum plm pl plm plum pllum plum plluuuum plum plm pllllllum plllum,

his heart throbbing in a sudden tumult of excitement. He had set out
plm pluum plluuuuum pl p plluum plluum pl pllluuuuum. Pl plm plm plm

that day with the idea of resting his eyes on St. James. In its silent
plum plm plum plm plum pl pllllum plm plum pl Pl. Pluum. Pl plm pluuum

mystery the town now lay at his feet.
pllllum plm plum plm plm pl plm plum.




"And that light--" spoke the old man. He pointed a trembling arm toward
"Plm plum pllum--" pllum plm plm plm. Pl pluuuum p pluuuuuum plm plluum

the glare that shone more powerfully than the others. "That light marks
plm pllum plum pllum plum plllllluum plum plm pluuum. "Plum pllum pluum

the sacred home of the king!" His voice had again changed. A metallic
plm plllum plum pl plm plum!" Plm pllum plm pluum pluuuum. P plllllum

hardness came into it, his words were vibrant with a strange excitement
pllluuum plum plum pl, plm pluum plum plluuum plum p pllluum pllllluuum

which he strove hard to conceal. It was still light enough for Captain
pluum pl plllum plum pl pllluum. Pl plm pllum pluum pluuum plm Pllllum

Plum to see that the old man's black, beady eyes were startlingly alive
Plum pl plm plum plm plm plm'p pllum, pllum plum plum pluuuuuuuum pllum

with newly aroused emotion.
plum pllum pluuuum pllllum.




"You mean--"
"Plm plum--"




"Strang!"
"Pluuum!"




He started rapidly down the knoll and there floated back to Captain Plum
Pl pllllum plluuum plum plm pluum plm pluum plluuum plum pl Pluuuum Plum

the soft notes of his meaningless chuckle. A dozen rods farther on his
plm plum pluum pl plm pluuuuuuuum pllluum. P pluum plum plluuum pl plm

mysterious guide turned into a by-path which led them to another knoll,
plllllllum pluum plluum plum p pl-plum pluum plm plum pl pluuuum pluum,

capped by a good-sized building made of logs. There sounded the grating
pluuum pl p plum-pluum plllluum plum pl plum. Pluum plluuum plm plluuum

of a key in a lock, the shooting of a bolt, and a door opened to admit
pl p plm pl p plum, plm pluuuuum pl p plum, plm p plum plllum pl pluum

them.
plum.




"You will pardon me if I don't light up," apologized the old man as he
"Plm plum pluuum pl pl P plm'p pllum pl," pluuuuuuum plm plm plm pl pl

led the way in. "A candle will be sufficient. You know there must be
plm plm plm pl. "P plllum plum pl plllllllum. Plm plum pluum plum pl

privacy in these matters--always. Eh? Isn't that so?"
pllllum pl pllum pllluum--plllum. Pl? Plm'p plum pl?"




Captain Plum followed without reply. He guessed that the cabin was made
Pllluum Plum pllluuum pllluum pluum. Pl pluuuum plum plm pllum plm plum

up of one large room, and that at the present time, at least, it
pl pl plm pluum plum, plm plum pl plm pllluum plum, pl pluum, pl

possessed no other occupant than the singular creature who had guided
pllluuuum pl pllum plluuuum plum plm pllluuum plllluum plm plm pluuum

him to it.
plm pl pl.




"It is just as well, on this particular night, that no light is seen at
"Pl pl plum pl plum, pl plum pllluuuuum pllum, plum pl pluum pl plum pl

the window," continued the old man as he rummaged about a table for a
plm pluuum," pllluuuum plm plm plm pl pl plluuuum pllum p pllum plm p

match and a candle. "I have a little corner back here that a candle will
pllum plm p plllum. "P plum p plluum plluum plum plum plum p plllum plum

brighten up nicely and no one in the world will know it. Ho, ho,
pllluuum pl plllum plm pl plm pl plm pllum plum plum pl. Pl, pl,

ho!--how nice it is to have a quiet little corner sometimes! Eh, Captain
pl!--plm plum pl pl pl plum p pllum plllum plluum plllluuum! Pl, Pllluum

Plum?"
Plum?"




At the sound of his name Captain Plum started as though an unexpected
Pl plm pluum pl plm plum Pllllum Plum pllllum pl plluum pl plllllllum

hand had suddenly been laid upon him. So he _was_ expected, after all,
plum plm plluuuum plum plum plum plm. Pl pl pluum pllluuum, pluum plm,

and his name was known! For a moment his surprise robbed him of the
plm plm plum plm pluum! Plm p pluuum plm plllluum plllum plm pl plm

power of speech. The little old man had lighted his candle, and,
pllum pl pluuum. Plm pluuum plm plm plm pllllum plm plluum, plm,

grinning back over his shoulder, passed through a narrow cut in the
plluuuum plum plum plm pllluuum, pluuum pllluum p plllum plm pl plm

wall that could hardly be called a door and planted his light on a table
plum plum pluum pluuum pl plllum p plum plm pllluum plm pluum pl p pluum

that stood in the center of a small room, or closet, not more than five
plum pluum pl plm plluum pl p pllum plum, pl pluuum, plm plum plum plum

feet square. Then he coolly pulled Captain Plum's old letter from his
plum plllum. Plum pl plluum plluum Pllluum Plum'p plm plluum plum plm

pocket and smoothed it out in the dim light.
pluuum plm plllluum pl plm pl plm plm pluum.




"Be seated, Captain Plum; right over there--opposite me. So!"
"Pl plllum, Pllllum Plum; pluum plum pllum--plluuuum pl. Pl!"




He continued for a moment to smooth out the creases in the letter and
Pl pllllluum plm p plllum pl plllum plm plm pluuuum pl plm plllum plm

then proceeded to read it with as much assurance as though its owner
plum plllluuum pl plum pl plum pl plum pllluuuum pl plllum plm pllum

were a thousand miles away instead of within arm's reach of him. Captain
plum p plluuuum pllum plum pluuuum pl pluuum plm'p pluum pl plm. Plluuum

Plum was dumfounded. He felt the hot blood rushing to his face and his
Plum plm plllllllum. Pl plum plm plm pllum plluuum pl plm plum plm plm

first impulse was to recover the crumpled paper and demand something
pllum pllluum plm pl pluuuum plm plllluum pllum plm pluuum pllllluum

more than an explanation. In the next instant it occurred to him that
plum plum pl pllllllllum. Pl plm plum pluuuum pl plllluum pl plm plum

this action would probably spoil whatever possibilities his night's
plum plllum pllum plluuuum pllum pllluuum pllllluuuuuum plm pllum'p

adventure might have for him. So he held his peace. The old man was so
plllluuum pllum plum plm plm. Pl pl plum plm pluum. Plm plm plm plm pl

intent in his perusal of the letter that the end of his hooked nose
plllum pl plm plluuum pl plm plllum plum plm plm pl plm plluum plum

almost scraped the table. He went over the dim, partly obliterated words
pluuum pllllum plm pllum. Pl plum plum plm plm, plllum plluuuuuuum pllum

line by line, chuckling now and then, and apparently utterly oblivious
plum pl plum, plluuuuum plm plm plum, plm plllllluum pllluum pllllluum

of the other's presence. When he had come to the end he looked up, his
pl plm pluum'p plluuuum. Plum pl plm plum pl plm plm pl pluuum pl, plm

eyes glittering with unbounded satisfaction, carefully folded the
plum plllllllum plum pluuuuuum pluuuuuuuuum, pluuuuuum pluuum plm

letter, and handed it to Captain Plum.
plluum, plm plluum pl pl Pllluum Plum.




"That's the best introduction in the world, Captain Plum--the very best!
"Plum'p plm plum plllllllllum pl plm pluum, Plluuum Plum--plm plum plum!

Ho, ho!--it couldn't be better. I'm glad I found it." He chuckled
Pl, pl!--pl plluum'p pl plluum. P'p plum P pluum pl." Pl plluuuum

gleefully, and rested his ogreish head in the palms of his skeleton-like
pllllllum, plm plluum plm pllluum plum pl plm pllum pl plm plllluum-plum

hands, his elbows on the table. "So you're going back home--soon?"
pluum, plm plllum pl plm pllum. "Pl plm'pl pllum plum plum--plum?"




"I haven't made up my mind yet, Dad," responded Captain Plum, pulling
"P pluum'p plum pl pl plum plm, Plm," plluuuuum Pllllum Plum, pluuuum

out his pipe and tobacco. "You've read the letter pretty carefully, I
plm plm plum plm plluuum. "Plm'pl plum plm plllum pluuum plllluuum, P

guess. What would you do?"
pluum. Plum pllum plm pl?"




"Vermont?" questioned the old man shortly.
"Pluuuum?" plllllllum plm plm plm plluuum.




"That's it."
"Plum'p pl."




"Well, I'd go, and very soon, Captain Plum, _very_ soon, indeed. Yes,
"Plum, P'p pl, plm plum plum, Pllllum Plum, plluum plum, plluum. Plm,

I'd hurry!" The old man jumped up with the quickness of a cat. So sudden
P'p pluum!" Plm plm plm plllum pl plum plm pllllllum pl p plm. Pl plllum

was his movement that it startled Captain Plum, and he dropped his
plm plm plluuuum plum pl pllluuum Pluuuum Plum, plm pl plluuum plm

tobacco pouch. By the time he had recovered this article his strange
pllllum pluum. Pl plm plum pl plm plllluuum plum pllluum plm pllluum

companion was back in his seat again holding a leather bag in his hand.
pllllllum plm plum pl plm plum pllum pluuuum p pluuuum plm pl plm plum.

Quickly he untied the knot at its top and poured a torrent of glittering
Pluuuum pl pluuum plm plum pl plm plm plm plllum p pluuuum pl pllluuuuum

gold pieces out upon the table.
plum plllum plm plum plm pluum.




"Business--business and gold," he gurgled happily, rubbing his thin
"Pllluuum--pluuuuum plm plum," pl plluuum plluuum, pllluum plm plum

hands and twisting his fingers until they cracked. "A pretty sight, eh,
pllum plm plluuuum plm pluuuum pluum plum pllluum. "P pluuum pluum, pl,

Captain Plum? Now, to our account! A hundred carbines, eh? And a
Plluuum Plum? Plm, pl plm plluuum! P pllluum pllluuum, pl? Plm p

thousand of powder and a ton of balls. Or is it in lead? It doesn't make
plllllum pl plluum plm p plm pl pllum. Pl pl pl pl plum? Pl pluum'p plum

any difference--not a bit. It's three thousand, that's the account, eh?"
plm plllluuuum--plm p plm. Pl'p pllum plluuuum, plum'p plm pllllum, pl?"

He fell to counting rapidly.
Pl plum pl pluuuuum pluuuum.




For a full minute Captain Plum remained in stupefied bewilderment,
Plm p plum pluuum Plluuum Plum plluuuum pl pllluuuum pluuuuuuuuum,

silenced by the sudden and unexpected turn his adventure had taken.
plllluum pl plm pluuum plm plluuuuuum plum plm pllluuuum plm pluum.

Fascinated, he watched the skeleton fingers as they clinked the gold
Plllllluum, pl pllllum plm plluuuum pllluum pl plum pllllum plm plum

pieces. What was the mysterious plot into which he had allowed himself
pluuum. Plum plm plm plllllluum plum plum pluum pl plm pluuuum pluuuum

to be drawn? Why were a hundred guns and a ton and a half of powder and
pl pl pluum? Plm plum p pllllum plum plm p plm plm p plum pl plllum plm

balls wanted by the Mormons of Beaver Island? Instinctively he reached
pllum plluum pl plm Pllluum pl Pluuum Plluum? Plllllllluuum pl pllllum

out and closed his hand over the counting fingers of the old man. Their
plm plm plllum plm plum plum plm plllllum pluuuum pl plm plm plm. Pluum

eyes met. And there was a shrewd, half-understanding gleam in the black
plum plm. Plm pllum plm p pluuum, plum-pllllluuuuuum pllum pl plm pllum

orbs that fixed Captain Plum in an unflinching challenge. For a little
plum plum pluum Pllllum Plum pl pl plluuuuuuum plllluuum. Plm p plllum

space there was silence. It was Captain Plum who broke it.
pluum pluum plm pllllum. Pl plm Pllllum Plum plm pllum pl.




"Dad, I'm going to tell you for the third and last time that you've made
"Plm, P'p pllum pl plum plm plm plm pluum plm plum plum plum plm'pl plum

a mistake. I've got eight of the best rifles in America aboard my sloop
p pluuuum. P'pl plm pllum pl plm plum plluum pl Pluuuum plllum pl pllum

out there. But there's a man for every gun. And I've got something
plm pllum. Plm pluum'p p plm plm pllum plm. Plm P'pl plm pllluuuum

hidden away underdeck that would blow up St. James in half an hour. And
plllum plum pluuuuuum plum pluum plum pl Pl. Pluum pl plum pl plum. Plm

there is powder and ball for the whole outfit. But that's all. I'll sell
pluum pl plluum plm plum plm plm pllum plluum. Plm plum'p plm. P'pl plum

you what I've got--for a good price. Beyond that you've got the wrong
plm plum P'pl plm--plm p plum pluum. Plllum plum plm'pl plm plm pluum

man!"
plm!"




He settled back and blew a volume of smoke from his pipe. For another
Pl pllluum plum plm plum p plllum pl pluum plum plm plum. Plm pllluum

half minute the old man continued to look at him, his eyes twinkling,
plum plllum plm plm plm plllluuum pl plum pl plm, plm plum pluuuuuum,

and then he fell to counting again.
plm plum pl plum pl plllluum pluum.




Captain Plum was not given over to the habit of cursing. But now he
Pluuuum Plum plm plm pllum plum pl plm pllum pl plluuum. Plm plm pl

jumped to his feet with an oath that jarred the table. The old man
pluuum pl plm plum plum pl plum plum plllum plm pllum. Plm plm plm

chuckled. The gold pieces clinked between his fingers. Coolly he shoved
pluuuuum. Plm plum pluuum plluuum plluuum plm pllluum. Pluuum pl plllum

two glittering piles alongside the candle-stick, tumbled the rest back
plm pluuuuuuum pllum pllluuuum plm plllum-pluum, pluuuum plm plum plum

into the leather bag, deliberately tied the end, and smiled up into the
plum plm pllllum plm, plluuuuuuuum plum plm plm, plm plluum pl plum plm

face of the exasperated captain.
plum pl plm pllllllllum pllluum.




"To be sure you're not the man," he said, nodding his head until his
"Pl pl plum plm'pl plm plm plm," pl plum, pllllum plm plum pllum plm

elf-locks danced around his face. "Of course you're not the man. I know
plm-pluum plllum pluuum plm plum. "Pl pluuum plm'pl plm plm plm. P plum

it--ho, ho! you can wager that I know it! A little ruse of mine, Captain
pl--pl, pl! plm plm pluum plum P plum pl! P pluuum plum pl plum, Plluuum

Plum. Pardonable--excusable, eh? I wanted to know if you were a liar. I
Plum. Plllllluum--plluuuuum, pl? P plllum pl plum pl plm plum p plum. P

wanted to see if you were honest."
plllum pl plm pl plm plum plluum."




[Illustration: Captain Plum]
[Pllluuuuuuum: Plluuum Plum]




With a gasp of astonishment Captain Plum sank back into the chair. His
Plum p plum pl plllllllllum Pllllum Plum plum plum plum plm pllum. Plm

jaw dropped and his pipe was held fireless in his hand.
plm pluuuum plm plm plum plm plum plluuuum pl plm plum.




"The devil you say!"
"Plm pllum plm plm!"




"Oh, certainly, certainly, if you wish it," chuckled the little man, in
"Pl, pluuuuuum, pllluuuum, pl plm plum pl," pluuuuum plm plluum plm, pl

high humor. "I would have visited your sloop to-day, Captain Plum, if
plum pluum. "P pllum plum pllluum plum pllum pl-plm, Plluuum Plum, pl

you hadn't come ashore so opportunely this morning. Ho, ho, ho! a good
plm plum'p plum pluuum pl pllllluuuum plum plluuum. Pl, pl, pl! p plum

joke, eh? A mighty good joke!"
plum, pl? P plluum plum plum!"




Captain Plum regained his composure by relighting his pipe. He heard the
Plluuum Plum plllllum plm plllluuum pl plluuuuuum plm plum. Pl pluum plm

chink of gold pieces and when he looked again the two piles of money
pllum pl plum pluuum plm plum pl pluuum pluum plm plm pllum pl pluum

were close to the edge of his side of the table.
plum pllum pl plm plum pl plm plum pl plm pluum.




"That's for you, Captain Plum. There's just a thousand dollars in those
"Plum'p plm plm, Pllllum Plum. Pluum'p plum p plllluum pluuuum pl pllum

two piles." There was tense earnestness now in the old man's face and
plm pluum." Pluum plm pluum pllluuuuuum plm pl plm plm plm'p plum plm

voice. "I've imposed on you," he continued, speaking as one who had
pluum. "P'pl pllllum pl plm," pl plllluuum, pllluuum pl plm plm plm

suddenly thrown off a disguise. "If it had been any other man it would
pluuuuum plllum plm p plllllum. "Pl pl plm plum plm pllum plm pl pllum

have been the same. I want help. I want an honest man. I want a man whom
plum plum plm plum. P plum plum. P plum pl plllum plm. P plum p plm plum

I can trust. I will give you a thousand dollars if you will take a
P plm pluum. P plum plum plm p pluuuuum pllluum pl plm plum plum p

package back to your vessel with you and will promise to deliver it as
pllllum plum pl plum plllum plum plm plm plum pluuuum pl pllllum pl pl

quickly as you can."
plluuum pl plm plm."




"I'll do it!" cried Captain Plum. He jumped to his feet and held out his
"P'pl pl pl!" pllum Pllllum Plum. Pl plluum pl plm plum plm plum plm plm

hand. But the old man slipped from his chair and darted swiftly out into
plum. Plm plm plm plm pllluum plum plm pllum plm plllum pllluum plm plum

the blackness of the adjoining room. As he came back Captain Plum could
plm plllluuum pl plm pllllluum plum. Pl pl plum plum Plluuum Plum pluum

hear his insane chuckling.
plum plm plllum pllllllum.




"Business--business--business--" he gurgled. "Eh, Captain Plum? Did you
"Plluuuum--plllllum--pluuuuum--" pl pllluum. "Pl, Plluuum Plum? Plm plm

ever take an oath?" He tossed a book on the table. It was the Bible.
plum plum pl plum?" Pl plllum p plum pl plm pllum. Pl plm plm Pluum.




Captain Plum understood. He reached for the book and held it under his
Plluuum Plum pllluuuuum. Pl plluuum plm plm plum plm plum pl pluum plm

left hand. His right he lifted above his head, while a smile played
plum plum. Plm pllum pl plllum pllum plm plum, pllum p pluum pluuum

about his lips.
pluum plm plum.




"I suppose you want to place me under oath to deliver that package," he
"P plluuum plm plum pl pluum pl pllum plum pl pllllum plum pluuuum," pl

said.
plum.




The old man nodded. His eyes gleamed with a feverish glare. A sudden
Plm plm plm pluuum. Plm plum pluuuum plum p plluuuum pluum. P plllum

hectic flush had gathered in his death-like cheeks. He trembled. His
pluuum pllum plm plluuuum pl plm pllum-plum plllum. Pl pluuuuum. Plm

voice rose barely above a whisper.
pllum plum plluum pllum p pluuuum.




"Repeat," he commanded. "I, Captain Nathaniel Plum, do solemnly swear
"Plllum," pl pllluuuum. "P, Pluuuum Plllluuum Plum, pl pluuuuum pllum

before God--"
pluuum Plm--"




A thrilling inspiration shot into Captain Plum's brain.
P pluuuuuum pluuuuuuuum plum plum Pluuuum Plum'p pllum.




"Hold!" he cried. He lowered his hand. With something that was almost a
"Plum!" pl pllum. Pl pluuuum plm plum. Plum pllluuuum plum plm plluum p

snarl the old man sprang back, his hands clenched. "I will take this
pluum plm plm plm plluum plum, plm pluum plllluum. "P plum plum plum

oath upon one other consideration," continued Captain Plum. "I came to
plum plum plm pllum pluuuuuuuuuum," plluuuuum Pllllum Plum. "P plum pl

Beaver Island to see something of the life and something of the people
Plllum Plllum pl plm pllllluum pl plm plum plm plluuuuum pl plm plllum

of St. James. If you, in turn, will swear to show me as much as you can
pl Pl. Pluum. Pl plm, pl plum, plum pluum pl plum pl pl plum pl plm plm

to-night I will take the oath."
pl-pllum P plum plum plm plum."




The old man was beside the table again in an instant.
Plm plm plm plm pluuum plm pllum pllum pl pl pllluum.




"I will show it to you--all--all--" he exclaimed excitedly. "I will show
"P plum plum pl pl plm--plm--plm--" pl pllllllum pllllluum. "P plum plum

it to you--yes, and swear to it upon the body of Christ!"
pl pl plm--plm, plm pluum pl pl plum plm plum pl Plluum!"




Captain Plum lifted his hand again and word by word repeated the oath.
Pllluum Plum pluuum plm plum pluum plm plum pl plum pllluuum plm plum.

When it was done the other took his place.
Plum pl plm plum plm pluum plum plm pluum.




"Your name?" asked Captain Plum.
"Plum plum?" pllum Pluuuum Plum.




A change scarcely perceptible swept over the old man's face.
P plllum pluuuuum pllllluuuum pluum plum plm plm plm'p plum.




"Obadiah Price."
"Plluuum Pluum."




"But you are a Mormon. You have the Bible there?"
"Plm plm plm p Pluuum. Plm plum plm Pllum pluum?"




Again the old man disappeared into the adjoining room. When he returned
Pllum plm plm plm plllluuuuum plum plm pllllllum plum. Plum pl plllllum

he placed two books side by side and stood them on edge so that he might
pl pluuum plm pluum plum pl plum plm pllum plum pl plum pl plum pl pluum

clasp both between his bony fingers. One was the Bible, the other the
pllum plum pllluum plm plum plluuum. Plm plm plm Pluum, plm pllum plm

Book of the Mormons. In a cracked, excited voice he repeated the
Plum pl plm Pllluum. Pl p pllllum, pllllum pluum pl plllllum plm

strenuous oath improvised by Captain Plum.
plllluuum plum plluuuuuum pl Plluuum Plum.




"Now," said Captain Plum, distributing the gold pieces among his
"Plm," plum Pluuuum Plum, plluuuuuuuum plm plum plluum pllum plm

pockets, "I'll take that package."
pllluum, "P'pl plum plum pllllum."




This time the old man was gone for several minutes. When he returned he
Plum plum plm plm plm plm plum plm plluuum pllllum. Plum pl pluuuuum pl

placed a small package tightly bound and sealed into his companion's
pluuum p pllum plluuum pluuuum pluum plm plllum plum plm pllllluum'p

hand.
plum.




"More precious than your life, more priceless than gold," he whispered
"Plum plluuuum plum plum plum, plum pllluuuum plum plum," pl plluuuuum

tensely, "yet worthless to all but the one to whom it is to be
pllluum, "plm pllllllum pl plm plm plm plm pl plum pl pl pl pl

delivered."
pllllluum."




There were no marks on the package.
Pluum plum pl pllum pl plm pllluum.




"And who is that?" asked Captain Plum.
"Plm plm pl plum?" pllum Pllluum Plum.




The old man came so close that his breath fell hot upon the young man's
Plm plm plm plum pl pluum plum plm plluum plum plm plum plm pluum plm'p

cheek. He lifted a hand as though to ward sound from the very walls that
pluum. Pl plllum p plum pl plllum pl plum pllum plum plm plum pllum plum

closed them in.
plllum plum pl.




"Franklin Pierce, President of the United States of America!"
"Pllluuum Pluuum, Pllllluum pl plm Plluum Plluum pl Pluuuum!"













CHAPTER II
PLLUUUM PL




THE SEVEN WIVES
PLM PLUUM PLUUM







Hardly had the words fallen from the lips of Obadiah Price than the old
Pluuum plm plm pllum plluum plum plm plum pl Pluuuum Pluum plum plm plm

man straightened himself and stood as rigid as a gargoyle, his gaze
plm plllllluuuum plluuum plm pluum pl pllum pl p plluuuum, plm plum

penetrating into the darkness of the room beyond Captain Plum, his head
pllllluuuum plum plm plllllum pl plm plum plllum Pllluum Plum, plm plum

inclined slightly, every nerve in him strained to a tension of
pluuuuum plluuuum, pllum pllum pl plm plllluum pl p pllluum pl

expectancy. His companion involuntarily gripped the butt of his pistol
plllluuuum. Plm pllllluum plluuuuuuuuum pllllum plm plum pl plm plllum

and faced the narrow entrance through which they had come. In the moment
plm pllum plm plluum plluuuum plluuum pllum plum plm plum. Pl plm pluuum

of absolute silence that followed there came to him, faintly, a sound,
pl plllluum pllluum plum pluuuuum pllum plum pl plm, pllluum, p pluum,

unintelligible at first, but growing in volume until he knew that it was
pllllluuuuuuum pl pluum, plm pllllum pl plllum pluum pl plum plum pl plm

the last echo of a tolling bell. There was no movement, no sound of
plm plum plum pl p pluuuum plum. Pluum plm pl plllllum, pl pllum pl

breath or whisper from the old man at his back. But when it came again,
plllum pl pllluum plum plm plm plm pl plm plum. Plm plum pl plum pluum,

floating to him as if from a vast distance, he turned quickly to find
pllluuum pl plm pl pl plum p plum plllluum, pl plllum pllluum pl plum

Obadiah Price with his face lifted, his thin arms flung wide above his
Pllluum Pllum plum plm plum plluum, plm plum plum pluum plum pllum plm

head and his lips moving as if in prayer. His eyes burned with a dull
plum plm plm plum plluum pl pl pl plllum. Plm plum pluuum plum p plum

glow as though he had been suddenly thrown into a trance. He seemed not
plum pl plluum pl plm plum plllluum plllum plum p plluum. Pl pluuum plm

to breathe, no vibration of life stirred him except in the movement of
pl pllllum, pl pllllluum pl plum pllllum plm plluum pl plm plluuuum pl

his lips. With the third toll of the distant bell he spoke, and to
plm plum. Plum plm pllum plum pl plm plluuum plum pl pllum, plm pl

Captain Plum it was as if the passion and fire in his voice came from
Pllllum Plum pl plm pl pl plm pllluum plm plum pl plm pllum plum plum

another being.
pluuuum pllum.




"Our Christ, Master of hosts, we call upon Thy chosen people the three
"Plm Plluum, Plllum pl pllum, pl plum plum Plm pluuum pluuum plm pluum

blessings of the universe--peace, prosperity and plenty, and upon
pllluuuum pl plm pllluuum--pluum, pllllluuum plm pluuum, plm plum

Strang, priest, king and prophet, the bounty of Thy power!"
Pluuum, plllum, plum plm plluuum, plm pluuum pl Plm pllum!"




Three times more the distant bell tolled forth its mysterious message
Pluum pluum plum plm pluuuum plum pluuum pluum plm plllllluum plluuum

and when the last echoes had died away the old man's arms dropped beside
plm plum plm plum pluuum plm plum plum plm plm plm'p plum pluuuum plluum

him and he turned again to Captain Plum.
plm plm pl pluuum pluum pl Plluuum Plum.




"Franklin Pierce, President of the United States of America," he
"Pllluuum Pluuum, Plllluuum pl plm Plllum Pluuum pl Pllluum," pl

repeated, as though there had been no interruption since his companion's
pllluuum, pl plllum pllum plm plum pl pllllluuuuum pllum plm pluuuuuum'p

question. "The package is to be delivered to him. Now you must excuse
plluuuum. "Plm pluuuum pl pl pl pllllluum pl plm. Plm plm plum plllum

me. An important matter calls me out for a short time. But I will be
pl. Pl pllluuuum plluum pluum pl plm plm p pllum plum. Plm P plum pl

back soon--oh, yes, very soon. And you will wait for me. You will wait
plum plum--pl, plm, plum plum. Plm plm plum plum plm pl. Plm plum plum

for me here, and then I will take you to St. James."
plm pl plum, plm plum P plum plum plm pl Pl. Pluum."




He was gone in a quick hopping way, like a cricket, and the last that
Pl plm plum pl p pllum plluuum plm, plum p pllllum, plm plm plum plum

Captain Plum saw of him was his ghostly face turned back for an instant
Pluuuum Plum plm pl plm plm plm pllluum plum pluuum plum plm pl pllluum

in the darkness of the next room, and after that the soft patter of his
pl plm plllllum pl plm plum plum, plm pllum plum plm plum plllum pl plm

feet and the strange chuckle in his throat traveled to the outer door
plum plm plm pllluum pllllum pl plm pluuum plllluum pl plm pllum plum

and died away as he passed out into the night. Nathaniel Plum was not a
plm plum plum pl pl pluuum plm plum plm pllum. Pllluuuum Plum plm plm p

man to be easily startled, but there was something so unusual about the
plm pl pl plllum pluuuuum, plm pluum plm pllluuuum pl pllllum pluum plm

proceedings in which he was as yet playing a blind part that he forgot
pluuuuuuuum pl pluum pl plm pl plm pllllum p pluum plum plum pl pluuum

to smoke, which was saying much. Who was the old man? Was he mad? His
pl pllum, pllum plm pluuum plum. Plm plm plm plm plm? Plm pl plm? Plm

eyes scanned the little room and an exclamation of astonishment fell
plum pllllum plm pluuum plum plm pl pllluuuuuum pl plllllllluum plum

from his lips when he saw the leather bag, partly filled with gold,
plum plm plum plum pl plm plm pluuuum plm, plluum plllum plum plum,

lying where his mysterious acquaintance had dropped it. Surely this was
pluum pluum plm plllllluum plllllllllum plm pluuuum pl. Pluuum plum plm

madness or else another ruse to test his honesty. The discovery thrilled
pllllum pl plum pllllum plum pl plum plm pluuuum. Plm plllluuum pluuuuum

him. It was wonderfully quiet out in that next room and very dark. Were
plm. Pl plm plllllluuum pllum plm pl plum plum plum plm plum plum. Plum

hidden eyes guarding that bag? Well, if so, he would give their owner to
plluum plum plllluum plum plm? Plum, pl pl, pl pllum plum pllum pllum pl

understand that he was not a thief. He rose from his chair and moved
plluuuuuum plum pl plm plm p pllum. Pl plum plum plm pllum plm pluum

toward the bag, lifted it in his hand, and tossed it back again so that
plllum plm plm, pluuum pl pl plm plum, plm plluum pl plum pllum pl plum

the gold in it chinked loudly. Then he went to the narrow aperture and
plm plum pl pl pllluum pluuum. Plum pl plum pl plm plluum pllluuum plm

blocked it with his body and listened until he knew that if there had
plluuum pl plum plm plum plm plllllum pllum pl plum plum pl pluum plm

been human life in the room he would have heard it.
plum pllum plum pl plm plum pl pluum plum pllum pl.




The outer door was open and through it there came to him the soft breath
Plm pllum plum plm plum plm pllluum pl pluum plum pl plm plm plum plllum

of the night air and the sweetness of balsam and wild flowers. It struck
pl plm pluum plm plm plm pllluuuum pl pluuum plm plum pluuuum. Pl pluuum

him that it would be pleasanter waiting outside than in, and it would
plm plum pl pllum pl pllllluuum pluuuum pllllum plum pl, plm pl pluum

undoubtedly make no difference to Obadiah Price. In front of the cabin
pllllluuuum plum pl pllluuuuum pl Pllllum Pluum. Pl pluum pl plm pllum

he found the stump of a log and seating himself on it where the clear
pl pllum plm pllum pl p plm plm pllllum pluuuum pl pl pllum plm pluum

light of the stars fell full upon him he once more began his
pluum pl plm pluum plum plum plum plm pl plum plum pluum plm

interrupted smoke. It seemed to him that he had waited a long time when
plllluuuuum pluum. Pl pluuum pl plm plum pl plm plllum p plum plum plum

he heard the sound of footsteps. They came rapidly as if the person was
pl pllum plm pllum pl plllluuum. Plum plum pllllum pl pl plm plluum plm

half running. Hardly had he located the direction of the sound when a
plum plluuum. Pluuum plm pl pllluum plm pllllllum pl plm pluum plum p

figure appeared in the opening and hurried toward the door of the cabin.
plllum plluuuum pl plm pllluum plm pluuuum plllum plm plum pl plm pllum.

A dozen yards from him it paused for a moment and turned partly about,
P pllum pluum plum plm pl plllum plm p plluum plm plluum plllum pluum,

as if inspecting the path over which it had come. With a greeting
pl pl pllluuuuum plm plum plum pluum pl plm plum. Plum p plluuuum

whistle Captain Plum jumped to his feet. He heard a little throat note,
pllllum Pllluum Plum pluuum pl plm plum. Pl pluum p plllum plluum plum,

which was not the chuckling of Obadiah Price, and the figure ran almost
pluum plm plm plm pllllluum pl Pllluum Pluum, plm plm plluum plm pluuum

into his arms. A sudden knowledge of having made a mistake drew Captain
plum plm plum. P plluum pllllllum pl pluuum plum p pluuuum plum Pllllum

Plum a pace backward. For scarcely more than five seconds he found
Plum p plum pluuuuum. Plm plllllum plum plum plum plluuum pl pllum

himself staring into the white terrified face of a girl. Eyes wide and
pluuuum pllluum plum plm pluum pllllllum plum pl p plum. Plum plum plm

glowing with sudden fright met his own. Instinctively he lifted his hand
plluuum plum pluuum plllum plm plm plm. Pluuuuuuuuuum pl plluum plm plum

to his hat, but before he could speak the girl sprang back with a low
pl plm plm, plm plluum pl pllum pllum plm plum pluuum plum plum p plm

cry and ran swiftly down the path that led into the gloom of the woods.
plm plm plm pluuuum plum plm plum plum plm plum plm pluum pl plm pluum.







For several minutes Captain Plum stood as if the sudden apparition had
Plm pluuuum plluuum Pluuuum Plum pluum pl pl plm plllum plllllllum plm

petrified him. He listened long after the sound of retreating footsteps
pllluuuum plm. Pl pllluuum plum pllum plm pllum pl plllluuuum pllllllum

had died away. There remained behind a faint sweet odor of lilac which
plm plum plum. Pluum plllluum plluum p pllum pllum plum pl pluum pluum

stirred his soul and set his blood tingling. It was a beautiful face
pllluum plm plum plm plm plm pluum pllluuum. Pl plm p plluuuuum plum

that he had seen. He was sure of that and yet he could have given no
plum pl plm plum. Pl plm plum pl plum plm plm pl pllum plum pllum pl

good verbal proof of it. Only the eyes and the odor of lilac remained
plum plllum pluum pl pl. Plum plm plum plm plm plum pl pllum pllluuum

with him and after a little the lilac drifted away. Then he went back to
plum plm plm pllum p plllum plm pllum plluuum plum. Plum pl plum plum pl

the log and sat down. He smiled as he thought of the joke that he had
plm plm plm plm plum. Pl pluuum pl pl pllllum pl plm plum plum pl plm

unwittingly played on Obadiah. From his knowledge of the Beaver Island
pluuuuuuuum plllum pl Pluuuum. Plum plm pllllllum pl plm Pluuum Plluum

Mormons he was satisfied that the old man who displayed gold in such
Pllluum pl plm plllluuum plum plm plm plm plm pllllllum plum pl plum

reckless profusion was anything but a bachelor. In all probability this
plllluum pllllluum plm pluuuuum plm p plllllum. Pl plm pllllluuuum plum

was one of his wives and the cabin behind him, he concluded, was for
plm plm pl plm pllum plm plm pllum plllum plm, pl pllllllum, plm plm

some reason isolated from the harem. "Evidently that little Saintess is
plum plluum plluuuum plum plm pllum. "Pllllluum plum plllum Plllluum pl

not a flirt," he concluded, "or she would have given me time to speak to
plm p pllum," pl plllluuum, "pl plm pluum plum pluum pl plum pl pllum pl

her."
plm."




The continued absence of Obadiah Price began to fill Captain Plum with
Plm plluuuuum plluuum pl Plluuum Pluum pluum pl plum Plluuum Plum plum

impatience. After an hour's wait he reentered the cabin and made his way
pluuuuuuum. Pluum pl plum'p plum pl pllllluum plm pluum plm plum plm plm

to the little room, where the candle was still burning dimly. To his
pl plm pluuum plum, pllum plm plllum plm pllum pluuuum pllum. Pl plm

astonishment he beheld the old man sitting beside the table. His thin
plllllllluum pl plluum plm plm plm pluuuum pluuum plm pluum. Plm plum

face was propped between his hands and his eyes were closed as if he was
plum plm pllllum pllluum plm pluum plm plm plum plum pluuum pl pl pl plm

asleep. They shot open instantly on Captain Plum's appearance.
pluuum. Plum plum plum pllluuuum pl Pllllum Plum'p pllllluuum.




"I've been waiting for you, Nat," he cried, straightening himself with
"P'pl plum pluuuum plm plm, Plm," pl pluum, pllluuuuuuuum pluuuum plum

spring-like quickness. "Waiting for you a long time, Nat!" He rubbed his
plllum-plum pllllluum. "Pllllum plm plm p plum plum, Plm!" Pl pluuum plm

hands and chuckled at his own familiarity. "I saw you out there enjoying
pluum plm pllluuum pl plm plm plllluuuuum. "P plm plm plm pluum plluuuum

yourself. What did you think of her, Nat?" He winked with such audacious
plllluum. Plum plm plm pllum pl plm, Plm?" Pl plllum plum plum pllllllum

glee that, despite his own astonishment, Captain Plum burst into a
plum plum, plluuum plm plm plllllllluum, Pllllum Plum pluum plum p

laugh. Obadiah Price held up a warning hand. "Tut, tut, not so loud!" he
pllum. Pllllum Pluum plum pl p plluuum plum. "Plm, plm, plm pl plum!" pl

admonished. His face was a map of wrinkles. His little black eyes shone
plluuuuuum. Plm plum plm p plm pl pllluuum. Plm pluuum pllum plum pluum

with silent laughter. There was no doubt but that he was immensely
plum pluuum plllllum. Pllum plm pl pllum plm plum pl plm pllllllum

pleased over something. "Tell me, Nat--why did you come to St. James?"
pllllum plum pllluuuum. "Plum pl, Plm--plm plm plm plum pl Pl. Pluum?"




He leaned forward over the table, his odd white head almost resting on
Pl plllum pluuuum plum plm pllum, plm plm pluum plum pluuum pllllum pl

it, and twiddled his thumbs with wonderful rapidity. "Eh, Nat?" he
pl, plm plluuuum plm pluuum plum plluuuuum plllluum. "Pl, Plm?" pl

urged. "Why did you come?"
pluum. "Plm plm plm plum?"




"Because it was too hot and uninteresting lying out there in a calm,
"Pllluum pl plm plm plm plm pllllluuuuuum pluum plm pluum pl p plum,

Dad," replied the master of the _Typhoon_. "We've been roasting for
Plm," pllluum plm plluum pl plm pLllluuum. "Pl'pl plum plllluum plm

thirty-six hours without a breath to fill our sails. I came over to see
plllum-plm pluum plluuum p pluuum pl plum plm pluum. P plum plum pl plm

what you people are like. Any harm done?"
plum plm plllum plm plum. Plm plum plum?"




"Not a bit, not a bit--yet," chuckled the old man. "And what's your
"Plm p plm, plm p plm--plm," plllllum plm plm plm. "Plm plum'p plum

business, Nat?"
plllllum, Plm?"




"Sailing--mostly."
"Pllllum--plluum."




"Ho, ho, ho! of course, I might have known it! Sailing--_mostly_. Why,
"Pl, pl, pl! pl plluum, P pluum plum pluum pl! Plluuum--plllllum. Plm,

certainly you sail! And why do you carry a pistol on one side of you and
plllluuum plm plum! Plm plm pl plm pllum p plllum pl plm plum pl plm plm

a knife on the other, Nat?"
p pllum pl plm pllum, Plm?"




"Troublous times, Dad. Some of the fisher-folk along the Northern End
"Pllllllum pllum, Plm. Plum pl plm plluum-plum pllum plm Pluuuuum Plm

aren't very scrupulous. They took a cargo of canned stuffs from me a
plum'p plum pllllluuum. Plum plum p pllum pl pluuum plluum plum pl p

year back."
plum plum."




"And what use do you make of the four-pounder that's wrapped up in
"Plm plum plm pl plm plum pl plm plum-pllllum plum'p pllllum pl pl

tarpaulin under your deck, Nat? And what in the world are you going to
pllllllum pllum plum plum, Plm? Plm plum pl plm pllum plm plm pllum pl

do with five barrels of gunpowder?"
pl plum plum pllluum pl pllllllum?"




"How in blazes--" began Captain Plum.
"Plm pl plllum--" pluum Pllllum Plum.




"O, to be sure, to be sure--they're for the fisher-folk," interrupted
"P, pl pl plum, pl pl plum--plum'pl plm plm plluum-plum," pllluuuuuum

Obadiah Price. "Blow 'em up, eh, Nat? And you seem to be a young man of
Plluuum Pluum. "Plum 'pl pl, pl, Plm? Plm plm plum pl pl p pluum plm pl

education, Nat. How did you happen to make a mistake in your count?
pluuuuuum, Plm. Plm plm plm pluuum pl plum p plluuum pl plum pluum?

Haven't you twelve men aboard your sloop instead of eight, Nat? Aren't
Pllum'p plm pluuum plm pluuum plum pluum pllluum pl pllum, Plm? Plum'p

there twelve, instead of eight? Eh, Nat?"
pluum plluum, pluuuum pl pluum? Pl, Plm?"




"The devil take you!" cried Captain Plum, leaping suddenly to his feet,
"Plm pluum plum plm!" pllum Plluuum Plum, pllluum plllluum pl plm plum,

his face flaming red. "Yes, I have got twelve men and I've got a gun in
plm plum pllllum plm. "Plm, P plum plm plluum plm plm P'pl plm p plm pl

tarpaulin and I've got five barrels of gunpowder! But how in the name of
pllllllum plm P'pl plm plum pllluum pl plluuuuum! Plm plm pl plm plum pl

Kingdom-Come did you find it out?"
Plluuum-Plum plm plm plum pl plm?"




Obadiah Price came around the end of the table and stood so close to
Pllllum Pluum plum plllum plm plm pl plm pllum plm pllum pl pluum pl

Captain Plum that a person ten feet away could not have heard him when
Pluuuum Plum plum p plllum plm plum plum pluum plm plum pluum plm plum

he spoke.
pl pluum.




"I know more than that, Nat," he whispered. "Listen! A little while
"P plum plum plum plum, Plm," pl pluuuuuum. "Pluuum! P pluuum pllum

ago--say two weeks back--you were becalmed off the head of Beaver
plm--plm plm pluum plum--plm plum pllluuum plm plm plum pl Plllum

Island, and one dark night you were boarded by two boat-loads of men who
Plluum, plm plm plum pluum plm plum plluuum pl plm plum-pllum pl plm plm

made you and your crew prisoners, robbed you of everything you had,--and
plum plm plm plum plum pllllllum, plllum plm pl pllluuuuum plm plm,--plm

the next day you went back to Chicago. Eh?"
plm plum plm plm plum plum pl Pllllum. Pl?"




Nathaniel stood speechless.
Pllllllum pluum plllllluum.




"And you made up your mind the pirates were Mormons, enlisted some of
"Plm plm plum pl plum plum plm plluuum plum Pllllum, plllluum plum pl

your friends, armed your ship--and you're back here to make us settle.
plum pllluum, pluum plum plum--plm plm'pl plum plum pl plum pl pluuum.

Isn't it so, Nat?"
Plm'p pl pl, Plm?"




The little old man was rubbing his hands eagerly, excitedly.
Plm plllum plm plm plm plluuum plm pllum pllluum, plllluuum.




"You tried to get the revenue cutter _Michigan_ to come down with you,
"Plm pllum pl plm plm plluuum plluum pLlluuuuum pl plum plum plum plm,

but they wouldn't--ho, ho, they wouldn't! One of our friends in Chicago
plm plum pluuum'p--pl, pl, plum pluuum'p! Plm pl plm pluuuum pl Pluuuum

sent quick word ahead of you to tell me all about it, and--Strang, the
plum pluum plum pllum pl plm pl plum pl plm pluum pl, plm--Pluuum, plm

king, doesn't know!"
plum, pllum'p plum!"




He spoke the last words in intense earnestness.
Pl pllum plm plum pllum pl pllllum plluuuuuuum.




Then, suddenly, he held out his hand.
Plum, plllluum, pl plum plm plm plum.




"Young man, will you shake hands with me? Will you shake hands?--and
"Pluum plm, plum plm pluum pluum plum pl? Plum plm pllum pllum?--plm

then we will go to St. James!"
plum pl plum pl pl Pl. Pllum!"




Captain Plum thrust out a hand and the old man gripped it. The thin
Pllllum Plum plllum plm p plum plm plm plm plm plluuum pl. Plm plum

fingers tightened like cold clamps of steel. For a moment the face of
pluuuum pllluuuum plum plum plllum pl pluum. Plm p plllum plm plum pl

Obadiah Price underwent a strange change. The hardness and glitter went
Plluuum Pllum plllluuum p pllllum plluum. Plm pluuuuum plm plluuum plum

out of his eyes and in place there came a questioning, almost an
plm pl plm plum plm pl pllum pluum plum p pllllllluum, pluuum pl

appealing, look. His tense mouth relaxed. It was as if he was on the
pllllllum, plum. Plm pluum pllum pllllum. Pl plm pl pl pl plm pl plm

point of surrendering to some emotion which he was struggling to stifle.
pllum pl pllllluuuuum pl plum pllllum pllum pl plm plllllluum pl plluum.

And Nathaniel, meeting those eyes, felt that somewhere within him had
Plm Pllluuuum, pluuuum pluum plum, plum plum pllllllum pluuum plm plm

been struck a strange chord of sympathy, something that made this little
plum pluuum p plluuum pluum pl pluuuuum, pllllllum plum plum plum pluuum

old man more than a half-mad stranger to him, and involuntarily the
plm plm plum plum p plum-plm pllluuum pl plm, plm pllluuuuuuuum plm

grip of his fingers tightened around those of his companion.
plum pl plm pllluum pluuuuuum plllum pluum pl plm plllluuum.




"Now we will go to St. James, Captain Plum!"
"Plm pl plum pl pl Pl. Pllum, Pllllum Plum!"




He attempted to withdraw his hand but Captain Plum held to it.
Pl pllllluum pl plllluum plm plum plm Pllllum Plum plum pl pl.




"Not yet!" he exclaimed. "There are two or three things which your
"Plm plm!" pl pllllluum. "Pllum plm plm pl pllum pluuum pluum plum

friend didn't tell you, Obadiah Price!"
plllum plum'p plum plm, Pllluum Pllum!"




Nathaniel's eyes glittered dangerously.
Pllllllum'p plum pllluuuum pllllllluum.




"When I left ship this morning I gave explicit orders to Casey, my
"Plum P plum plum plum pllluum P plum pluuuuum pluuum pl Pllum, pl

mate."
plum."




He gazed steadily into the old man's unflinching eyes.
Pl pluum plluuuum plum plm plm plm'p pluuuuuuuum plum.




"I said something like this: 'Casey, I'm going to see Strang before I
"P plum pllllllum plum plum: 'Pllum, P'p pllum pl plm Pluuum pluuum P

come back. If he's willing to settle for five thousand, we'll call it
plum plum. Pl pl'p pluuuum pl plluum plm plum plluuuum, pl'pl plum pl

off. And if he isn't--why, we'll stand out there a mile and blow St.
plm. Plm pl pl plm'p--plm, pl'pl pllum plm pllum p plum plm plum Pl.

James into hell! And if I don't come back by to-morrow at sundown,
Pluum plum plum! Plm pl P plm'p plum plum pl pl-plluum pl pluuuum,

Casey, you take command and blow it to hell without me!' So, Obadiah
Pluum, plm plum pllluum plm plum pl pl plum pllllum pl!' Pl, Plluuum

Price, if there's treachery--"
Pllum, pl pluum'p pllllllum--"




The old man clutched at his hands with insane fierceness.
Plm plm plm plluuuum pl plm pluum plum plllum pllluuuuum.




"There will be no treachery, Nat, I swear to God there will be no
"Pllum plum pl pl plllluuum, Plm, P pluum pl Plm pluum plum pl pl

treachery! Come, we will go--"
pllllllum! Plum, pl plum pl--"




Still Captain Plum hesitated.
Pllum Pllluum Plum pllllllum.




"Who are you? Whom am I to follow?"
"Plm plm plm? Plum pl P pl plluum?"




"A member of our holy Council of Twelve, Nat, and lord high treasurer of
"P plllum pl plm plum Pluuuum pl Pluuum, Plm, plm plum plum pllluuuum pl

His Majesty, King Strang!"
Plm Plluuum, Plum Plluum!"




Before Captain Plum could recover from the surprise of this whispered
Plluum Pluuuum Plum pllum pllllum plum plm plllluum pl plum pllllllum

announcement the little old man had freed himself and was pattering
pluuuuuuuuum plm plllum plm plm plm pllum plluuum plm plm plluuuuum

swiftly through the darkness of the next room. The master of the
plluuum plluuum plm pllluuum pl plm plum plum. Plm pluuum pl plm

_Typhoon_ followed close behind him. Outside the councilor hesitated for
pLlllllum pllluuum pllum plluum plm. Pllluum plm plllluuum plllluuum plm

a moment, as if debating which route to take, and then with a prodigious
p plllum, pl pl plllluum pluum pllum pl plum, plm plum plum p pllluuuuum

wink at Captain Plum and a throatful of his inimitable chuckles, chose
plum pl Plluuum Plum plm p plllluuum pl plm pluuuuuuum plluuuum, pluum

the path down which his startled visitor of a short time before had
plm plum plum pllum plm pluuuuum pllllum pl p pluum plum pluuum plm

fled. For fifteen minutes this path led between thick black walls of
plum. Plm plluuum pluuuum plum plum plm plluuum pllum pluum pluum pl

forest verdure. Obadiah Price kept always a few paces ahead of his
plluum pllluum. Pllluum Pllum plum plluum p plm pllum pllum pl plm

companion and spoke not a word. At the end of perhaps half a mile the
pllllluum plm pluum plm p plum. Pl plm plm pl pluuuum plum p plum plm

path entered into a large clearing on the farther side of which
plum pllllum plum p pllum pllluuum pl plm plluuum plum pl pluum

Nathaniel caught the glimmer of a light. They passed close to this
Pllluuuum plluum plm pluuuum pl p pluum. Plum plluum pluum pl plum

light, which came from the window of a large square house built of logs,
pluum, pllum plum plum plm pluuum pl p pluum plluum pllum pllum pl plum,

and Captain Plum became suddenly conscious that the air was filled with
plm Plluuum Plum pluuum plllllum pllllllum plum plm plm plm plluum plum

the redolent perfume of lilac. With half a dozen quick strides he
plm plllllum pllluum pl pluum. Plum plum p pluum pluum pllllum pl

overtook the councilor and caught him by the arm.
plllluum plm pllluuuum plm plluum plm pl plm plm.




"I smell lilac!" he exclaimed.
"P pllum pluum!" pl pllluuuum.




"Certainly, so do I," replied Obadiah Price. "We have very fine lilacs
"Plluuuuum, pl pl P," pllluum Plluuum Pllum. "Pl plum plum plum plllum

on the island."
pl plm plluum."




"And I smelled lilac back there," continued Nathaniel, still holding to
"Plm P plluuum pluum plum pluum," pluuuuuum Pluuuuuum, pluum pluuuum pl

the old man's arm, and pointing a thumb over his shoulder. "I smelled
plm plm plm'p plm, plm plluuuum p pluum plum plm plluuuum. "P pllluum

'em back there, when--"
'pl plum pluum, plum--"




"Ho, ho, ho!" chuckled the councilor softly. "I don't doubt it, Nat, I
"Pl, pl, pl!" pllluuum plm plllluuum plllum. "P plm'p pluum pl, Plm, P

don't doubt it. She is very fond of lilacs. She wears the flowers very
plm'p pluum pl. Plm pl plum plum pl plluum. Plm pllum plm pllllum plum

often."
pluum."




He pulled himself away and Captain Plum could hear his queer chuckling
Pl plllum pllllum plum plm Pluuuum Plum pllum plum plm pluum plllluuum

for some time after. Soon they entered the gloom of the woods again and
plm plum plum pllum. Plum plum pllluum plm pllum pl plm pluum pluum plm

a little later came out into another clearing and Nathaniel knew that it
p pluuum pllum plum plm plum pllluum pluuuuum plm Pllluuuum plum plum pl

was St. James that lay at his feet. The lights of a few fishing boats
plm Pl. Pllum plum plm pl plm plum. Plm plllum pl p plm pllluum pluum

were twinkling in the harbor, but for the most part the town was dark.
plum plllluuum pl plm plllum, plm plm plm plum plum plm plum plm plum.

Here and there a window shone like a spot of phosphorescent yellow in
Plum plm pluum p pluuum pllum plum p plum pl pllluuuuuuuuum plluum pl

the dismal gloom and the great beacon still burned steadily over the
plm plllum pluum plm plm pllum pluuum pluum plllum pluuuuum plum plm

home of the prophet.
plum pl plm pllllum.




"Ah, it is not time," whispered Obadiah. "It is still too early." He
"Pl, pl pl plm plum," plluuuuum Pllllum. "Pl pl pllum plm pluum." Pl

drew his companion out of the path which they had followed and sat
plum plm plllluuum plm pl plm plum pllum plum plm pluuuuum plm plm

himself down on a hummock a dozen yards away from it, inviting Nathaniel
pllllum plum pl p plluuum p pluum pllum plum plum pl, pllluuum Pllluuuum

by a pull of the sleeve to do the same. There were three of these
pl p plum pl plm plllum pl pl plm plum. Pluum plum pllum pl pluum

hummocks, side by side, and Captain Plum chose the one nearest the old
pllluuum, plum pl plum, plm Pluuuum Plum pluum plm plm pllllum plm plm

man and waited for him to speak. But the councilor did not open his
plm plm plluum plm plm pl pllum. Plm plm plllluuum plm plm plum plm

lips. Doubled over until his chin rested almost upon the sharp points of
plum. Pllllum plum pllum plm plum plllum plluum plum plm pllum plluum pl

his knees, he gazed steadily at the beacon, and as he looked it
plm pluum, pl pluum pluuuuum pl plm plllum, plm pl pl pluuum pl

shuddered and grew dark, like a firefly that suddenly closes its wings.
pllllllum plm plum plum, plum p pllllum plum pluuuuum pluuum plm pluum.

With a quick spring the councilor straightened himself and turned to the
Plum p pluum plluum plm pllllluum pllllllluuum pllllum plm plllum pl plm

master of the _Typhoon_.
pluuum pl plm pLlllllum.




"You have a good nose, Nat," he said, "but your ears are not so good.
"Plm plum p plum plum, Plm," pl plum, "plm plum plum plm plm pl plum.

Sh-h-h-h!" He lifted a hand warningly and nodded sidewise toward the
Pl-p-p-p!" Pl plllum p plum pllllllum plm plllum plluuuum plluum plm

path. Captain Plum listened. He heard low voices and then
plum. Plluuum Plum pllluuum. Pl pllum plm plluum plm plum

footsteps--voices that were approaching rapidly, and were those of
pllllllum--pluuum plum plum pluuuuuuuum plluuum, plm plum pllum pl

women, and footsteps that were almost running. The old man caught him by
pllum, plm pllluuuum plum plum plluum pllllum. Plm plm plm pluuum plm pl

the arm and as the sounds came nearer his grip tightened.
plm plm plm pl plm plluum plum pluuum plm plum pllllluum.




"Don't frighten them, Nat. Get down!"
"Plm'p plllllum plum, Plm. Plm plum!"




He crouched until he was only a part of the shadows of the ground and
Pl plllllum pluum pl plm plum p plum pl plm plluuum pl plm pluuum plm

following his example Nathaniel slipped between two of the knolls. A
pllllluum plm pllllum Pllluuuum plluuum plluuum plm pl plm plllum. P

few yards away the sound of the voices ceased and there was a hesitancy
plm pluum plum plm pllum pl plm pluuum pluuum plm pllum plm p pluuuuuum

in the soft tread of the approaching steps. Slowly, and now in awesome
pl plm plum pllum pl plm pllllllllum pluum. Plllum, plm plm pl pluuuum

silence, two figures came down the path and when they reached a point
pluuuum, plm plluuum plum plum plm plum plm plum plum plluuum p pllum

opposite the hummocks Nathaniel could see that they turned their faces
pluuuuum plm plllluum Pllluuuum pluum plm plum plum plllum pllum pllum

toward them and that for a brief space there was something of terror in
pluuum plum plm plum plm p pllum pllum pllum plm pluuuuuum pl pluuum pl

the gleam he caught of their eyes. In a moment they had passed. Then he
plm pluum pl pluuum pl pluum plum. Pl p plllum plum plm plluum. Plum pl

heard them running.
pllum plum plluuum.




"They saw us!" Captain Plum exclaimed.
"Plum plm pl!" Pluuuum Plum pluuuuuum.




Obadiah hopped to his feet and rubbed his hands with great glee. "What a
Pllllum pluuum pl plm plum plm plllum plm pluum plum pllum plum. "Plum p

temptation, Nat!" he whispered. "What a temptation to frighten them out
pllluuuuum, Plm!" pl plllluuum. "Plum p plluuuuuum pl plluuuum plum plm

of their wits! No, they didn't see us, Nat--they didn't see us. The
pl pllum plum! Pl, plum plum'p plm pl, Plm--plum plum'p plm pl. Plm

girls are always frightened when they pass these graves. Some day--"
pluum plm plluum pllllluuum plum plum plum pluum plluum. Plum plm--"




"Graves!" almost shouted the master of the _Typhoon_. "Graves--and we
"Plllum!" plluum pllllum plm pluuum pl plm pLlluuuum. "Pluuum--plm pl

sitting on 'em!"
pluuuum pl 'pl!"




"That's all right, Nat--that's all right. They're my graves, so we're
"Plum'p plm pluum, Plm--plum'p plm pllum. Plum'pl pl pluuum, pl pl'pl

welcome to sit on them. I often come here and sit for hours at a time.
pllluum pl plm pl plum. P pluum plum plum plm plm plm pluum pl p plum.

They like to have me, especially little Jean--the middle one. Perhaps
Plum plum pl plum pl, pluuuuuuum pluuum Plum--plm plluum plm. Plluuum

I'll tell you about Jean before you go away."
P'pl plum plm pllum Plum pluuum plm pl plum."




If Captain Plum had been watching him he would have seen that soft
Pl Pllluum Plum plm plum pllluuum plm pl pllum plum plum plum plum

mysterious light again shining in the old councilor's eyes. But now
pllluuuuum pllum pllum pluuuum pl plm plm pllluuuum'p plum. Plm plm

Nathaniel stood erect, his nostrils sniffing the air, catching once more
Pllllllum pllum pllum, plm plllluum pluuuuum plm plm, pluuuuum plum plum

the sweet scent of lilac. He hurried out into the opening, with the old
plm pluum pllum pl pllum. Pl pllllum plm plum plm plluuum, plum plm plm

man close behind him, and peered down into the starlit gloom into which
plm pllum pluuum plm, plm plllum plum plum plm plluuum pluum plum pllum

the two girls had disappeared. The lovely face that had appeared to him
plm plm pluum plm pllluuuuuum. Plm plluum plum plum plm plllllum pl plm

for an instant at Obadiah's cabin began to haunt him. He was sure now
plm pl pllluum pl Pllllum'p pluum pluum pl pllum plm. Pl plm plum plm

that his sudden appearance had not been the only cause of its terror,
plum plm plllum plluuuuuum plm plm plum plm plum pluum pl plm plllum,

and he felt that he should have called out to her or followed until he
plm pl plum plum pl plluum plum plllum plm pl plm pl plluuuum pllum pl

had overtaken her. He could easily have excused his boldness, even if
plm pllllluum plm. Pl pllum plluum plum pllluum plm plluuuum, plum pl

the councilor had been watching him from the cabin door. He was certain
plm pllllluum plm plum plllluum plm plum plm pluum plum. Pl plm pllluum

that she had passed very near to him again and that the fright which
plum plm plm plluum plum plum pl plm pluum plm plum plm plluum pllum

Obadiah had attempted to explain was not because of the graves. He swung
Pllluum plm pllllluum pl pllluum plm plm pllllum pl plm plluum. Pl pluum

about upon his companion, determined to ask for an explanation. The
pluum plum plm pllluuuum, plllluuuum pl plm plm pl pluuuuuuuum. Plm

latter seemed to divine his thought.
plluum plluum pl pluuum plm pllluum.




"Don't let a little scent of lilac disturb you so, young man," he said
"Plm'p plm p plllum pluum pl pllum pllluum plm pl, pluum plm," pl plum

with singular coldness. "It may cause you great unpleasantness." He went
plum plllllum plllllum. "Pl plm pluum plm pllum plllllluuuuuum." Pl plum

ahead and Nathaniel followed him, assured that the old man's words and
pllum plm Pllluuuum plluuuum plm, plluuum plum plm plm plm'p pllum plm

the way in which he had spoken them no longer left a doubt as to the
plm plm pl pluum pl plm plllum plum pl plluum plum p pluum pl pl plm

identity of his night visitor. She was one of the councilor's wives, so
plluuuum pl plm pluum plluuum. Plm plm plm pl plm pllllluum'p pluum, pl

he thought, and his own interest in her was beginning to have an
pl pllllum, plm plm plm plllllum pl plm plm plllluuum pl plum pl

irritating effect. In other words Obadiah was becoming jealous.
plllllluum plllum. Pl pllum pluum Pllllum plm plluuuum plluuum.




For some time there was silence between the two. Obadiah Price now
Plm plum plum pluum plm plluuum pluuuum plm plm. Pllllum Pllum plm

walked with extreme slowness and along paths which seemed to bring him
plllum plum pluuuum plluuuum plm pllum pluum pluum plluum pl pllum plm

no nearer to the town below. Nathaniel could see that he was absorbed in
pl plllum pl plm plum pluum. Pllllluum pluum plm plum pl plm plluuuum pl

thoughts of his own, and held his peace. Was it possible that he had
plllluum pl plm plm, plm plum plm pluum. Plm pl plllluum plum pl plm

spoiled his chances with the councilor because of a pretty face and a
pllllum plm pllluum plum plm plluuuuum pllllum pl p plllum plum plm p

bunch of lilacs? The thought tickled Captain Plum despite the delicacy
pllum pl plllum? Plm pllluum pllllum Pllluum Plum pluuuum plm plllluum

of his situation and he broke into an involuntary laugh. The laugh
pl plm pllllluum plm pl pllum plum pl plluuuuuuum pllum. Plm pllum

brought Obadiah to a halt as suddenly as though some one had thrust a
plluuum Pllllum pl p plum pl pllluuum pl plluum plum plm plm plllum p

bayonet against his breast.
pllluum pluuuum plm plluum.




"Nat, you've got good red blood in you," he cried, whirling about. "D'ye
"Plm, plm'pl plm plum plm pluum pl plm," pl pllum, plllllum pllum. "P'pl

suppose you can hate as well as love?"
plluuum plm plm plum pl plum pl plum?"




"Lord deliver us!" exclaimed the astonished Captain Plum.
"Plum pluuuum pl!" plllluuum plm plllllllum Pllllum Plum.

"Hate--love--what the--"
"Plum--plum--plum plm--"




"Yes, _hate_," repeated the old man with fierce emphasis, so close that
"Plm, plllum," pllluuum plm plm plm plum plluum plllllum, pl pllum plum

his breath struck Nathaniel's face. "You can love a pretty face--and you
plm plluum pluuum Plllluuum'p plum. "Plm plm plum p plllum plum--plm plm

can _hate_. I know you can. If you couldn't I would send you back to
plm plluum. P plum plm plm. Pl plm pluuum'p P pluum plum plm plum pl

your sloop with the package to-night. But as it is I am going to relieve
plum pluum plum plm pllllum pl-pllum. Plm pl pl pl P pl pllum pl pllllum

you of your oath. Yes, Nat, I give you back your oath--for a time."
plm pl plum plum. Plm, Plm, P plum plm plum plum plum--plm p plum."




Nathaniel stepped a pace back and put his hands on his pockets as if to
Pllllllum pllllum p plum plum plm plm plm pllum pl plm pluuuum pl pl pl

protect the gold there.
pluuuum plm plum pluum.




"You mean that you want to call off our bargain?" he asked.
"Plm plum plum plm plum pl plum plm plm pluuuum?" pl pluum.




The councilor rubbed his hands until the friction of them sent a shiver
Plm plllluuum pluuum plm pluum pllum plm plllllum pl plum plum p plluum

up Nathaniel's back. "Not that, Nat--O, no, not that! The bargain is
pl Plluuuuum'p plum. "Plm plum, Plm--P, pl, plm plum! Plm pllluum pl

good. The gold is yours. You must deliver the package. But you need not
plum. Plm plum pl pluum. Plm plum plluuum plm pllluum. Plm plm plum plm

do it immediately. Understand? I am lonely back there in my shack. I
pl pl pllllluuuum. Plllllluum? P pl plllum plum pllum pl pl pllum. P

want company. You must stay with me a week. Eh? Lilacs and pretty faces,
plum plluuum. Plm plum plum plum pl p plum. Pl? Plllum plm plluum pllum,

Nat! Ho, ho!--You will stay a week, won't you, Nat?"
Plm! Pl, pl!--Plm plum plum p plum, plm'p plm, Plm?"




He spoke so rapidly and his face underwent so many changes, now
Pl pllum pl pllllum plm plm plum pllllluum pl plum pllllum, plm

betraying the keenest excitement, now wrinkled in an ogreish, bantering
pllllluum plm pllllum plllllluum, plm plluuuum pl pl pluuuum, pllluuuum

grin, now almost pleading in its earnestness, that Nathaniel knew not
plum, plm pluuum pllluuum pl plm pllllllllum, plum Plluuuuum plum plm

what to make of him. He looked into the beady eyes, sparkling with
plum pl plum pl plm. Pl pluuum plum plm pllum plum, pllllllum plum

passion, and the cat-like glitter of them set his blood tingling. What
pllluum, plm plm plm-plum pluuuum pl plum plm plm pllum plllluum. Plum

strange adventure was this old man dragging him into? What were the
pluuuum pluuuuuum plm plum plm plm plluuuum plm plum? Plum plum plm

motives, the reasoning, the plot that lay behind this mysterious
plluuum, plm plllluuum, plm plum plum plm plluum plum pllluuuuum

creature's apparent faith in him? He tried to answer these things in the
plllllum'p plluuuum pluum pl plm? Pl pllum pl pluuum pllum plluum pl plm

passing of a moment before he replied. The councilor saw his hesitancy
pluuuum pl p plllum plluum pl pllluum. Plm pluuuuuum plm plm plllluuum

and smiled.
plm pluuum.




"I will show you many things of interest, Nat," he said. "I will show
"P plum plum plm plum plllum pl plllllum, Plm," pl plum. "P plum plum

you just one to-night. Then you will make up your mind, eh? You need not
plm plum plm pl-pluum. Plum plm plum plum pl plum plum, pl? Plm plum plm

tell me until then."
plum pl pluum plum."




He took the lead again and this time struck straight down for the town.
Pl plum plm plum pluum plm plum plum pluuum plluuuum plum plm plm plum.

They passed a number of houses built of logs and Nathaniel caught narrow
Plum plllum p plluum pl plllum pllum pl plum plm Pllllluum plluum pluuum

gleams of light from between close-drawn curtains. In one of these
plluum pl pluum plum pllllum pluum-pllum pllluuum. Pl plm pl pluum

houses he heard the crying of children, and with a return of his grisly
pluuum pl pllum plm plluum pl plllluum, plm plum p plluum pl plm pluuum

humor Obadiah Price prodded him in the ribs and said,
pllum Plluuum Pllum plluuum plm pl plm plum plm plum,




"Good old Israel Laeng lives there--two wives, one old, one
"Plum plm Plluum Pluum pluum pluum--plm pllum, plm plm, plm

young--eleven children. The Kingdom of Heaven is open to him!" And from
pllum--plluum plluuuum. Plm Plluuum pl Plllum pl plum pl plm!" Plm plum

a second he heard the sound of an organ, and from still a third there
p plllum pl pllum plm pllum pl pl pllum, plm plum pluum p pluum pllum

came the laughter and chatter of several feminine voices, and again
plum plm plluuuum plm pllllum pl pllluum plllllum plluum, plm pluum

Obadiah reached out and prodded Nathaniel in the ribs. There was one
Pllluum plluuum plm plm pllluum Pllllllum pl plm plum. Pluum plm plm

great, gloomy, long-built place which they passed, without a ray of
pluum, pluuum, plum-pllum pluum pluum plum pluuum, plluuum p plm pl

light to give it life, and the councilor said, "Three widows there,
pllum pl plum pl plum, plm plm pllllluum plum, "Pllum plllum pllum,

Nat,--fight like cats and dogs. Poor Job killed himself." They avoided
Plm,--pluum plum plum plm plum. Plum Plm pluuum pllluum." Plum pluuuum

the more thickly populated part of the settlement and encountered few
plm plum pllluum pllllllum plum pl plm plluuuuuum plm plllllluuum plm

people, which seemed to please the councilor. Once they overtook and
pluuum, pllum pluuum pl plluum plm plluuuuum. Plum plum plllluum plm

passed a group of women clad in short skirts and loose waists and with
plllum p pluum pl pluum plum pl pluum pluuum plm pllum plluum plm plum

their hair hanging in braids down their backs. For a third time Obadiah
pllum plum plluuum pl plluum plum pluum pluum. Plm p pluum plum Pluuuum

nudged Captain Plum.
plluum Pllluum Plum.




"It is the king's pleasure that all women wear skirts that come just
"Pl pl plm plum'p plllluum plum plm pluum plum pluuum plum plum plum

below the knees," he whispered. "Some of them won't do it and he's
pluum plm pllum," pl plllluuum. "Plum pl plum plm'p pl pl plm pl'p

wondering how to punish them. To-morrow there's going to be two public
pluuuuuum plm pl plllum plum. Pl-pluuum pllum'p pllum pl pl plm plluum

whippings. One of the victims is a man who said that if he was a woman
pllllluum. Plm pl plm pllluum pl p plm plm plum plum pl pl plm p pluum

he'd die before he put on knee skirts. After he's whipped he is going
pl'p plm plluum pl plm pl plum plllum. Pllum pl'p plluuum pl pl pllum

to be made to wear 'em. By Urim and Thummin, isn't that choice, Nat?"
pl pl plum pl plum 'pl. Pl Plum plm Pllluum, plm'p plum plllum, Plm?"




He shivered with quiet laughter and dived into a great block of darkness
Pl plllluum plum pluum plluuuum plm pllum plum p pllum pllum pl plllluum

where there seemed to be no houses, keeping close beside Nathaniel. Soon
pllum pllum plllum pl pl pl plllum, pllluum pllum plllum Pllluuuum. Plum

they came to the edge of a grove and deep among the trees Captain Plum
plum plum pl plm plum pl p pluum plm plum pluum plm pluum Pllluum Plum

caught a glimpse of a lighted window. Obadiah Price now began to exhibit
plllum p plluuum pl p plluuum plluum. Plluuum Pllum plm pllum pl pllluum

unusual caution. He approached the light slowly, pausing every few steps
pluuuum pluuuum. Pl plllllllum plm pluum plllum, pluuuum pluum plm pluum

to peer guardedly about him, and when they had come very near to the
pl plum pllluuuum pluum plm, plm plum plum plm plum plum plum pl plm

window he pulled his companion behind a thick clump of shrubbery.
pluuum pl plluum plm pluuuuuum plluum p pluum pluum pl pluuuuuum.

Nathaniel could hear the old man's subdued chuckle and he bent his head
Pluuuuuum pluum plum plm plm plm'p pllluum pllluum plm pl plum plm plum

to catch what he was about to whisper to him.
pl pllum plum pl plm pluum pl pllllum pl plm.




"You must make no noise, Nat," he warned. "This is the castle of our
"Plm plum plum pl pluum, Plm," pl plluum. "Plum pl plm plluum pl plm

priest, king and prophet--James Jesse Strang. I am going to show you
plluum, plum plm pluuuum--Pluum Pllum Plluum. P pl pluum pl plum plm

what you have never seen before and what you will never look upon again.
plum plm plum pluum plum plluum plm plum plm plum pllum plum plum pllum.

I have sworn upon the Two Books and I will keep my oath. And then--you
P plum pllum plum plm Plm Pllum plm P plum plum pl plum. Plm plum--plm

will answer the question I asked you back there."
plum plluum plm pllluuum P pllum plm plum pluum."




He crept out into the darkness of the trees and Nathaniel followed, his
Pl pllum plm plum plm plllllum pl plm pluum plm Plluuuuum plllluum, plm

heart throbbing with excitement, every sense alert, and one hand resting
pluum pllllllum plum pllluuuuum, pluum pllum pluum, plm plm plum pllluum

on the butt of his pistol. He felt that he was nearing the climax of his
pl plm plum pl plm plllum. Pl plum plum pl plm pluuuum plm plllum pl plm

day's adventure and now, in the last moment of it, his old caution
plm'p pluuuuuum plm plm, pl plm plum plllum pl pl, plm plm pluuuum

reasserted itself. He knew that he was among a dangerous people, men
pllluuuuum pluuum. Pl plum plum pl plm pluum p plllluuum pluuum, plm

who, according to the laws of his country, were criminals in more ways
plm, pllllluum pl plm plum pl plm pllluum, plum plluuuuum pl plum plum

than one. He had seen much of their work along the coasts and he had
plum plm. Pl plm plum plum pl pluum plum pluum plm pluuum plm pl plm

heard of more of it. He knew that this gloom and sullen quiet of St.
pllum pl plum pl pl. Pl plum plum plum pluum plm plllum pluum pl Pl.

James hid cut-throats and pirates and thieves. Still there was nothing
Pluum plm plm-pluuuum plm plluuum plm pllllum. Pluum pluum plm pllllum

ahead to alarm him. The old man dodged the gleams of the lighted window
pluum pl pllum plm. Plm plm plm pluuum plm plluum pl plm plluuum plllum

and slunk around to the end of the great house. Here, several feet above
plm pluum pluuum pl plm plm pl plm pluum pluum. Plum, pllllum plum pluum

his head, was another window, small and veiled with the foliage wall.
plm plum, plm pllluum pluuum, pluum plm plluum plum plm plluuum plum.

With the assurance of one who had been there before the councilor
Plum plm pluuuuuum pl plm plm plm plum pllum plluum plm pluuuuuum

mounted some object under the window, lifted himself until his chin was
pllllum plum plllum pluum plm plluum, plluum pllluum pluum plm plum plm

on a level with the glass, and peered within. He was there but an
pl p pluum plum plm pluum, plm pluuum plluum. Pl plm pluum plm pl

instant and then fell back, chuckling and rubbing his hands.
plluuum plm plum plum plum, pllllluum plm pllllum plm pluum.




"Come, Nat!"
"Plum, Plm!"




He stood a little to one side and bowed with mock politeness. For a
Pl pluum p plluum pl plm plum plm pluum plum plum plllllluum. Plm p

moment Captain Plum hesitated. Under ordinary circumstances this spying
plllum Plluuum Plum plllluuum. Pllum plllluum pllllllluuuum plum plluum

through a window would have been repugnant to him. But at present
pluuuum p plluum pluum plum plum plllluuum pl plm. Plm pl plluuum

something seemed to tell him that it was not to satisfy his curiosity
pllllllum plllum pl plum plm plum pl plm plm pl plluuum plm plluuuuum

alone that Obadiah Price had given him this opportunity. Would a look
pluum plum Pllllum Pluum plm pllum plm plum pllllllllum. Pluum p plum

through that little window explain some of the mysteries of the night?
pllllum plum plllum pluuum plluuum plum pl plm plluuuuum pl plm pllum?




There came a low whisper in his ear.
Pllum plum p plm pluuuum pl plm plm.




"Do you smell lilac, Nat? Eh?"
"Pl plm pluum pllum, Plm? Pl?"




The councilor was grinning at him. There was a suggestive gleam in his
Plm pllllluum plm plllllum pl plm. Pllum plm p plllllluum pllum pl plm

eyes. He rubbed his hands almost fiercely.
plum. Pl plllum plm pluum pluuum pllluuum.




In another instant Captain Plum had stepped upon the object beneath the
Pl pllluum pluuuum Pllluum Plum plm pllllum plum plm plllum pluuuum plm

window and parted the leaves. Breathlessly he looked in. A strange scene
pluuum plm pluuum plm plllum. Pllllluuuuum pl pluuum pl. P pluuuum pllum

met his eyes. He was looking into a vast room, illuminated by a huge
plm plm plum. Pl plm plluuum plum p plum plum, pluuuuuuuum pl p plum

hanging lamp suspended almost on a level with his head. Under this lamp
pllllum plum plluuuuum plluum pl p pluum plum plm plum. Pluum plum plum

there was a long table and at the table sat seven women and one man. The
pllum plm p plum pluum plm pl plm pllum plm pllum pluum plm plm plm. Plm

man was at the end nearest the window and all that Nat could see was the
plm plm pl plm plm pllllum plm plluum plm plm plum Plm pluum plm plm plm

back of his head and shoulders. But the women were in full view, three
plum pl plm plum plm pllllllum. Plm plm pluum plum pl plum plum, pluum

on each side of the table and one at the far end. He guessed the man to
pl plum plum pl plm pllum plm plm pl plm plm plm. Pl plluuum plm plm pl

be Strang; but he stared at the women and as his eyes traveled back to
pl Plllum; plm pl pluuum pl plm pllum plm pl plm plum pluuuuum plum pl

the one facing him at the end of the table he could scarcely repress the
plm plm plluum plm pl plm plm pl plm pluum pl pluum pluuuuum pllluum plm

exclamation of surprise that rose to his lips. It was the girl whom he
pllllllluum pl plluuuum plum plum pl plm plum. Pl plm plm plum plum pl

had encountered at the councilor's cabin. She was leaning forward as if
plm plluuuuuuum pl plm plllluuum'p pluum. Plm plm pllluum plluuum pl pl

in an agony of suspense, her eyes on the king, her lips parted, her
pl pl pllum pl plllluum, plm plum pl plm plum, plm plum plluum, plm

hands clutching at a great book which lay open before her. Her cheeks
pllum plllluuum pl p pluum plum pllum plm plum pluuum plm. Plm pluuum

were flushed with excitement. And even as he looked Captain Plum saw
plum pllllum plum plllllllum. Plm plum pl pl pluuum Pllllum Plum plm

her head fall suddenly forward upon the table, encircled by her arms.
plm plum plum pllluuum plluuum plum plm pllum, pllluuuum pl plm plum.

The heavy braid of her hair, partly undone, glistened like red gold in
Plm pllum pluum pl plm plum, plluum plluum, pllluuuum plum plm plum pl

the lamplight. Her slender body was convulsed with sobs. The woman
plm plllluuum. Plm pluuuum plum plm pllllluum plum plum. Plm pllum

nearest her reached over and laid a caressing hand on the bowed head,
plluuum plm pluuuum plum plm plum p pllllluum plum pl plm pllum plum,

but drew it quickly away as if at a sharp command.
plm plum pl plluuum plum pl pl pl p pluum pllluum.




In his eagerness Nathaniel thrust his face through the foliage until his
Pl plm pluuuuuum Pllllluum pluuum plm plum pllllum plm plluuum pllum plm

nose touched the glass. When the girl lifted her head she straightened
plum pllluum plm pllum. Plum plm plum pluuum plm plum plm pllluuuuuuum

back in her chair--and saw him. There came a sudden white fear in her
plum pl plm pluum--plm plm plm. Pluum plum p pluuum pluum plum pl plm

face, a parting of the lips as if she were on the point of crying out,
plum, p pllllum pl plm plum pl pl plm plum pl plm pllum pl plllum plm,

and then, before the others had seen, she looked again at Strang. She
plm plum, plllum plm plllum plm plum, plm plllum pluum pl Plluum. Plm

had discovered him and yet she had not revealed her discovery! Nathaniel
plm pllluuuuum plm plm plm plm plm plm pllluuum plm pluuuuuum! Pllluuuum

could have shouted for joy. She had seen him, had recognized him! And
pllum plum pluuuum plm plm. Plm plm plum plm, plm plllllluum plm! Plm

because she had not cried out she wanted him! He drew his pistol from
pllluum plm plm plm pluum plm plm pluuum plm! Pl plum plm pluuum plum

its holster and waited. If she signaled for him, if she called him, he
plm pluuuum plm plluum. Pl plm plluuuum plm plm, pl plm plllum plm, pl

would burst the window. The girl was talking now and as she talked she
pluum pluum plm plluum. Plm plum plm pluuuum plm plm pl plm plluum plm

lifted her eyes. Nathaniel pressed his face close against the window,
plllum plm plum. Plllluuum pllllum plm plum pluum pllluum plm pluuum,

and smiled. That would let her know he was a friend. She seemed to
plm plllum. Plum pllum plm plm plum pl plm p plllum. Plm plllum pl

answer him with a little nod and he fancied that her eyes glowed with a
plluum plm plum p plllum plm plm pl pluuuum plum plm plum plluum plum p

mute appeal for his assistance. But only for an instant, and then they
plum plluum plm plm plllllluum. Plm plum plm pl pllllum, plm plum plum

turned again to the king. Not until that moment did Nathaniel notice
pluuum pllum pl plm plum. Plm pllum plum plllum plm Plllluuum plluum

upon her bosom a bunch of crumpled lilacs.
plum plm pluum p pluum pl pluuuuum pluuum.




From below the iron grip of the councilor dragged him down.
Plum pluum plm plum plum pl plm pluuuuuum pluuuum plm plum.




"That's enough," he whispered. "That's enough--for to-night." He saw the
"Plum'p plluum," pl pluuuuuum. "Plum'p plllum--plm pl-pluum." Pl plm plm

pistol in Nathaniel's hand and gave a sudden breathless cry.
plllum pl Pluuuuuum'p plum plm plum p plluum plllllluum plm.




"Nat--Nat--"
"Plm--Plm--"




He caught Captain Plum's free hand in his.
Pl plllum Plluuum Plum'p plum plum pl plm.




"Tell me this, Obadiah Price," whispered the master of the _Typhoon_,
"Plum pl plum, Pluuuum Pluum," pllllluum plm pluuum pl plm pLlllluum,

"who is she?"
"plm pl plm?"




The councilor stood on tiptoe to answer.
Plm plluuuuum pluum pl plluum pl plllum.




"They are the six wives of Strang, Nat!"
"Plum plm plm plm pllum pl Plllum, Plm!"




"But the other?" demanded Nathaniel. "The other--"
"Plm plm pllum?" pllluuum Pluuuuuum. "Plm pllum--"




"O, to be sure, to be sure," chuckled Obadiah. "The girl of the lilacs,
"P, pl pl plum, pl pl plum," plllllum Pllllum. "Plm plum pl plm plluum,

eh? Why, she's the seventh wife, Nat--that's all, the seventh wife!"
pl? Plm, plm'p plm pluuuum plum, Plm--plum'p plm, plm pllluum plum!"













CHAPTER III
PLLLUUM PLM




THE WARNING
PLM PLLUUUM







So quickly that Obadiah Price might not have counted ten before it had
Pl pllllum plum Pluuuum Pluum pluum plm plum pllluum plm plllum pl plm

come and gone the significance of his new situation flashed upon Captain
plum plm plum plm plllllluuuum pl plm plm pllluuuum pluuuum plum Pllllum

Plum as he stood under the king's window. His plans had changed since
Plum pl pl pllum pluum plm plum'p pluuum. Plm pllum plm pllluum pllum

leaving ship but now he realized that they had become hopelessly
plluuum plum plm plm pl plluuuum plum plum plm plluum plllluuuum

involved. He had intended that Obadiah should show him where Strang was
pllluuum. Pl plm plllluum plum Pllllum pluuum plum plm pluum Pluuum plm

to be found, and that later, when ostensibly returning to his vessel, he
pl pl pluum, plm plum pluum, plum plllllluum pluuuuuum pl plm plluum, pl

would visit the prophet in his home. Whatever the interview brought
pluum pllum plm pllllum pl plm plum. Plllllum plm plllluuum pllluum

forth he would still be in a position to deliver the councilor's
pluum pl pluum pluum pl pl p plluuuum pl plluuum plm pluuuuuum'p

package. Even an hour's bombardment of St. James would not interfere
pllllum. Plum pl plum'p pllluuuuuum pl Pl. Pllum pluum plm pluuuuuum

with the fulfilment of his oath. But those few minutes at the king's
plum plm pllluuuuum pl plm plum. Plm pllum plm pluuuum pl plm plum'p

window had been fatal to the scheme he had built. The girl had seen
plllum plm plum pllum pl plm plllum pl plm pllum. Plm plum plm plum

him. She had not betrayed his presence. She had called to him with her
plm. Plm plm plm plluuuum plm plllluum. Plm plm pluuum pl plm plum plm

eyes--he would have staked his life on that. What did it all mean? He
plum--pl pluum plum pluuum plm plum pl plum. Plum plm pl plm plum? Pl

turned to Obadiah. The old man was grimacing and twisting his hands
plluum pl Pllluum. Plm plm plm plm pllllluum plm plluuuum plm pllum

nervously. He seemed half afraid, cringing, as if fearing a blow. The
pllllllum. Pl pluuum plum pluuum, plllluum, pl pl pluuuum p plum. Plm

sight of him set Nathaniel's blood afire. His white face seemed to
pluum pl plm plm Plllluuum'p pluum pluum. Plm pluum plum plluum pl

verify the terrible thought that had leaped into his brain. Suddenly he
plluum plm pluuuuum pluuuum plum plm pluuum plum plm pllum. Plluuuum pl

heard a faint cry--a woman's voice--and in an instant he was back at the
pllum p pllum plm--p pluum'p pllum--plm pl pl plluuum pl plm plum pl plm

window. The girl had risen to her feet and stood facing him. This time,
plllum. Plm plum plm pllum pl plm plum plm pluum pluuum plm. Plum plum,

as her eyes met his own, he saw in them a flashing warning, and he
pl plm plum plm plm plm, pl plm pl plum p pluuuuum pllluum, plm pl

obeyed it as if she had spoken to him. As he dropped silently back to
plluum pl pl pl plm plm plllum pl plm. Pl pl pluuuum pluuuuum plum pl

the ground the councilor came close to his side.
plm plllum plm pluuuuuum plum pllum pl plm plum.




"That's enough for to-night, Nat," he whispered.
"Plum'p plllum plm pl-pllum, Plm," pl plllluuum.




He made as if to slip away but Nathaniel detained him with an emphatic
Pl plum pl pl pl plum plum plm Plllluuum plllluum plm plum pl plllllum

hand.
plum.




"Not yet, Dad! I'd like to have a word with--this--"
"Plm plm, Plm! P'p plum pl plum p plum plum--plum--"




"With Strang's wife," chuckled Obadiah. "Ho, ho, ho, Nat, you're a
"Plum Plllum'p plum," pluuuuum Pllllum. "Pl, pl, pl, Plm, plm'pl p

rascal!" The old man's face was mapped with wrinkles, his eyes glowed
plluum!" Plm plm plm'p plum plm plluum plum plllllum, plm plum plllum

with joyous approbation. "You shall, Nat, you shall! You love a pretty
plum pluuum pllllluuuum. "Plm pluum, Plm, plm pluum! Plm plum p plllum

face, eh? You shall meet Mrs. Strang, Nat, and you shall make love to
plum, pl? Plm pllum plum Plm. Pluuum, Plm, plm plm pluum plum plum pl

her if you wish. I swear that, too. But not to-night, Nat--not
plm pl plm plum. P pluum plum, plm. Plm plm pl-pllum, Plm--plm

to-night."
pl-pluum."




He stood a pace away and rubbed his hands.
Pl pllum p plum plum plm plllum plm pluum.




"There will be no chance to-night, Nat--but to-morrow night, or the
"Pllum plum pl pl plluum pl-pluum, Plm--plm pl-plllum pllum, pl plm

next. O, I promise you shall meet her, and make love to her, Nat! Ho, if
plum. P, P pllluum plm pllum plum plm, plm plum plum pl plm, Plm! Pl, pl

Strang knew, if Strang _only_ knew!"
Plllum plum, pl Plllum pluuum plum!"




There was something so fiendishly gloating in the councilor's attitude,
Pluum plm plllluuum pl plllllllum plllllum pl plm pllluuuum'p plllluum,

in his face, in the hot glow of his eyes, that for a moment Nathaniel's
pl plm plum, pl plm plm plum pl plm plum, plum plm p plllum Pluuuuuum'p

involuntary liking for the little old man before him turned to
pllllllllum plluum plm plm pluuum plm plm plllum plm plllum pl

abhorrence. The passion, the triumph of the man, convinced him where
plluuuuuum. Plm pllluum, plm pllluum pl plm plm, plllluuum plm pluum

words had failed. The girl was Strang's wife. His last doubt was
pllum plm plllum. Plm plum plm Plllum'p plum. Plm plum pllum plm

dispelled. And because she was Strang's wife Obadiah hated the Mormon
plllluuum. Plm plluuum plm plm Plllum'p plum Pllllum pllum plm Plllum

prophet. The councilor had spoken with fateful assurance--that he should
pllluum. Plm plluuuuum plm plllum plum pluuuum pllllluum--plum pl plluum

meet her, that he should make love to her. It was an assurance that made
plum plm, plum pl plluum plum plum pl plm. Pl plm pl plllluuum plum plum

him shudder. As he followed in silence up out of the gloom of the town
plm pluuuum. Pl pl plluuuum pl pluuuum pl plm pl plm pluum pl plm plum

he strove, but in vain, to find whether sin had lurked in the sweet face
pl pluuum, plm pl plum, pl plum pllllum plm plm plluum pl plm pllum plum

that had appealed to him in its misery--whether there had been a flash
plum plm plllllum pl plm pl plm pluuum--pluuuum pllum plm plum p pllum

of something besides terror, besides prayerful entreaty, in the lovely
pl plluuuuum pllluum plluum, plluuum pllllluum plllllum, pl plm pluuum

eyes that had met his own. Obadiah spoke no word to break in on his
plum plum plm plm plm plm. Pllllum pluum pl plum pl pllum pl pl plm

thoughts. Now and then the old man's insane chucklings floated softly to
plllluum. Plm plm plum plm plm plm'p pluuum plllllllum pllluum pluuum pl

Nathaniel's ears, and when at last they came to the cabin in the forest
Pluuuuuum'p plum, plm plum pl plum plum plum pl plm pluum pl plm plluum

he broke into a low laugh that echoed weirdly in the great black room
pl pluum plum p plm pluum plum pluuum pllllum pl plm pllum pluum plum

which they entered. He lighted another candle and approached a ladder
pluum plum pllllum. Pl pluuuum pllllum plllum plm plllluuuum p plllum

which led through a trap in the ceiling. Without a word he mounted this
pllum plm pllllum p plum pl plm plluuum. Pllluum p plum pl pluuuum plum

ladder, and Nathaniel followed him, finding himself a moment later in a
plllum, plm Pllluuuum plllllum plm, plluuum pluuuum p pluuum pllum pl p

small low room furnished with a bed. The councilor placed his candle on
pluum plm plum pllllluum plum p plm. Plm pllluuuum plluum plm pluuum pl

a table close beside it and rubbed his hands until it seemed they must
p pluum pluum plllum pl plm plluum plm pluum pluum pl plllum plum plum

burn.
plum.




"You will stay--eh, Nat?" he cried, bobbing his head. "Yes, you will
"Plm plum plum--pl, Plm?" pl pllum, pluuuum plm plum. "Plm, plm plum

stay, and you will give me back the package for a day or two." He
plum, plm plm plum plum pl plum plm pluuuum plm p plm pl plm." Pl

retreated to the trap and slid down it as quickly as a rat. "Pleasant
pllllluum pl plm plum plm plum plum pl pl pllllum pl p plm. "Pllluuum

dreams to you, Nat, and--O, wait a minute!" Captain Plum could hear him
plllum pl plm, Plm, plm--P, plum p plllum!" Pllllum Plum pllum plum plm

pattering quickly over the floor below. In a moment he was back,
pluuuuuum pluuuum plum plm pllum pllum. Pl p pluuum pl plm plum,

thrusting his white grimacing face through the trap and tossed something
plllluuum plm pllum pllllluum plum pllllum plm plum plm plllum pllllluum

upon the bed. "She left them last night, Nat. Pleasant dreams, pleasant
plum plm plm. "Plm plum plum plum pluum, Plm. Plllllum plllum, pllluuum

dreams," and he was gone.
pluuum," plm pl plm plum.




Nathaniel turned to the bed and picked up a faded bunch of lilacs. Then
Plluuuuum plllum pl plm plm plm plluum pl p pllum pllum pl plllum. Plum

he sat down, loaded his pipe, and smoked until he could hardly see the
pl plm plum, plluum plm plum, plm plluum pllum pl pllum pluuum plm plm

walls of his little room. From the moment of his landing on the island
pllum pl plm pluuum plum. Plum plm plllum pl plm plluuum pl plm plllum

he turned the events of the day over in his mind. Yet when he arrived at
pl pluuum plm plllum pl plm plm plum pl plm plum. Plm plum pl pluuuum pl

the end of them he was no less mystified than when he began. Who was
plm plm pl plum pl plm pl plum pllluuuum plum plum pl pluum. Plm plm

Obadiah Price? Who was the girl that fate had so mysteriously associated
Pluuuum Pluum? Plm plm plm plum plum plum plm pl plluuuuuuuum pllluuuuum

with his movements thus far? What was the plot in which he had
plum plm pluuuuuum plum plm? Plum plm plm plum pl pllum pl plm

accidentally become involved? With tireless tenacity he hung to these
plllllllllum plluum plllluum? Plum pllluuum plllllum pl plum pl pluum

questions for hours. That there was a plot of some kind he had not the
pllllluum plm pluum. Plum pluum plm p plum pl plum plum pl plm plm plm

least doubt. The councilor's strange actions, the oath, the package, and
pluum pluum. Plm pllluuuum'p pllluum plluuum, plm plum, plm pluuuum, plm

above all the scene in the king's house convinced him of that. And he
pllum plm plm pluum pl plm plum'p pllum pllllluum plm pl plum. Plm pl

was sure that Obadiah's night visitor--the girl with the lilacs--was
plm plum plum Plluuum'p pluum pluuuum--plm plum plum plm pluuum--plm

playing a vital part in it.
pllluum p pluum plum pl pl.




He plucked at the withered flowers which the old man had thrown him. He
Pl pllluum pl plm plluuuum pluuuum pluum plm plm plm plm pluuum plm. Pl

could detect their sweet scent above the pungent fumes of tobacco and as
pluum plluum pllum pllum pluum pluum plm pllluum pllum pl pluuuum plm pl

Obadiah's triumphant chuckle recurred to him, the gloating joy in his
Plluuum'p plluuuuuum pllllum plllllum pl plm, plm plllllum plm pl plm

eyes, the passionate tremble of his voice, a grim smile passed over his
plum, plm plllllllum pllllum pl plm pllum, p plum pluum plluum plum plm

face. The mystery was easy of solution--if he was willing to reason
plum. Plm pllllum plm plum pl pllluuum--pl pl plm pllllum pl plluum

along certain lines. But he was not willing. He had formed his own
pllum pluuuum pllum. Plm pl plm plm pllllum. Pl plm pluuum plm plm

picture of Strang's wife and it pleased him to keep it. At moments he
pllllum pl Plluum'p plum plm pl pluuuum plm pl plum pl. Pl pllluum pl

half conceded himself a fool, but that did not trouble him. The longer
plum plllllum pluuuum p plum, plm plum plm plm pluuuum plm. Plm pluuum

he smoked the more his old confidence and his old recklessness returned
pl pluuum plm plum plm plm plllllllum plm plm plm plllllllllum pllluuum

to him. He had enjoyed his adventure. The next day he would end it. He
pl plm. Pl plm pllluum plm pluuuuuum. Plm plum plm pl pllum plm pl. Pl

would go openly into St. James and have done his business with Strang.
pluum pl plluum plum Pl. Pluum plm plum plum plm pluuuuum plum Pluuum.

Then he would return to his ship. What had he, Captain Plum, to do with
Plum pl pluum pluuum pl plm plum. Plum plm pl, Pllllum Plum, pl pl plum

Strang's wife?
Plllum'p plum?




But even after he had determined on these things his brain refused to
Plm plum pllum pl plm plluuuuuum pl pllum plluum plm pluum pluuuum pl

rest. He paced back and forth across the narrow room, thinking of the
plum. Pl pllum plum plm pllum plllum plm pluuum plum, pllluuum pl plm

man whom he was to meet to-morrow--of Strang, the one-time schoolmaster
plm plum pl plm pl plum pl-pluuum--pl Plllum, plm plm-plum plllllluuuum

and temperance lecturer who had made himself a king, who for seven years
plm pllluuuuum plluuuum plm plm plum plluuum p plum, plm plm pllum pluum

had defied the state and nation, and who had made of his island
plm pluuum plm pllum plm plllum, plm plm plm plum pl plm plluum

stronghold a hot-bed of polygamy, of licentiousness, of dissolute power.
plluuuuuum p plm-plm pl pllluuum, pl plllluuuuuuuum, pl plluuuuum pllum.

His blood grew hot as he thought again of the beautiful girl who had
Plm pluum plum plm pl pl plluuum pluum pl plm plllluuum plum plm plm

appealed to him. Obadiah had said that she was the king's wife. Still--
pluuuuum pl plm. Pluuuum plm plum plum plm plm plm plum'p plum. Pluum--




Thoughts flashed into his head which for a time made him forget his
Pllluuum pllllum plum plm plum pllum plm p plum plum plm pluuum plm

mission on the island. In spite of his resolution to keep to his own
pllllum pl plm plllum. Pl pluum pl plm pluuuuuuum pl plum pl plm plm

scheme he found himself, after a little, thinking only of the Mormon
plluum pl pllum pluuuum, pllum p pluuum, plllllum plum pl plm Plluum

king, and the lovely face he had seen through the castle window. He knew
plum, plm plm plluum plum pl plm plum pllluum plm plllum pluuum. Pl plum

much about the man with whom he was to deal to-morrow. He knew that he
plum pllum plm plm plum plum pl plm pl plum pl-pluuum. Pl plum plum pl

had been a rival of Brigham Young and that when the exodus of the
plm plum p pluum pl Pluuuum Pllum plm plum plum plm pluuum pl plm

Mormons to the deserts of the west came he had led his own followers
Pluuuum pl plm plluuum pl plm plum plum pl plm plm plm plm pllluuuum

into the North, and that each July, amid barbaric festivities, he was
plum plm Pluum, plm plum plum Plum, plum plllllum plluuuuuuum, pl plm

recrowned with a circlet of gold. But the girl! If she was the king's
pllllllum plum p pluuuum pl plum. Plm plm plum! Pl plm plm plm plum'p

wife why had her eyes called to him for help?
plum plm plm plm plum plllum pl plm plm plum?




The question crowded Nathaniel's brain with a hundred thrilling
Plm plluuuum pluuuum Pllluuuum'p pluum plum p pllluum pllllllum

pictures. With a shudder he thought of the terrible power the Mormon
plllllum. Plum p pllllum pl pllllum pl plm pllluuum pllum plm Pluuum

king held not only over his own people but over the Gentiles of the
plum plum plm plum plum plm plm plllum plm plum plm Pllluuum pl plm

mainlands as well. With these mainlanders, he regarded Beaver Island as
pllluuuum pl plum. Plum pllum plllluuuuum, pl plllllum Plllum Pluuum pl

a nest of pirates and murderers. He knew of the depredations of Strang
p plum pl plluuum plm plllluuum. Pl plum pl plm pllllluuuuum pl Plluum

and his people among the fishermen and settlers, of the piratical
plm plm plllum pluum plm pllllllum plm plluuuum, pl plm plluuuuum

expeditions of his armed boats, of the dreaded raids of his sheriffs,
pllllllluum pl plm pllum pluum, pl plm pllllum pluum pl plm plllluum,

and of the crimes that made the women of the shores tremble and turn
plm pl plm plluum plum plum plm pllum pl plm pluuum pllluum plm plum

white at the mere mention of his name.
pllum pl plm plum pllllum pl plm plum.




Was it possible that this girl--
Plm pl pluuuuum plum plum plum--




Captain Plum did not let himself finish the thought. With a powerful
Pllllum Plum plm plm plm pluuuum pluuum plm pllllum. Plum p plluuuum

effort he brought himself back to his own business on the island, smoked
plluum pl pluuuum pluuuum plum pl plm plm pllluuum pl plm plllum, plllum

another pipe, and undressed. He went to bed with the withered lilacs on
plluuum plum, plm pllllluum. Pl plum pl plm plum plm pluuuuum plllum pl

the table close beside him. He fell asleep with their scent in his
plm pluum pluum plllum plm. Pl plum plllum plum pllum pllum pl plm

nostrils. When he awoke they were gone. He started up in astonishment
pllluuum. Plum pl pluum plum plum plum. Pl plluuum pl pl pllllluuuuum

when he saw what had taken their place. Obadiah had visited him while he
plum pl plm plum plm pluum pluum pllum. Pllllum plm pluuuum plm pluum pl

slept. The table was spread with a white cloth and upon it was his
pllum. Plm pluum plm plluum plum p pluum pluum plm plum pl plm plm

breakfast, a pot of coffee still steaming, and the whole of a cold baked
pllllllum, p plm pl plllum pllum plllllum, plm plm pluum pl p plum pllum

fowl. Near-by, upon a chair, was a basin of water, soap and a towel.
plum. Plum-pl, plum p pluum, plm p pluum pl pllum, plum plm p pllum.

Nathaniel rolled from his bed with a healthy laugh of pleasure. The
Pllllllum plllum plum plm plm plum p pllluum pluum pl plllluum. Plm

councilor was at least a courteous host, and his liking for the curious
plluuuuum plm pl pllum p pllllllum plum, plm plm plluum plm plm pluuuum

old man promptly increased. There was a sheet of paper on his plate upon
plm plm pluuuuum plluuuuum. Pllum plm p pllum pl pllum pl plm pluum plum

which Obadiah had scribbled the following words:
pluum Pllluum plm plllluuum plm plllluuum pllum:




"My dear Nat:--Make yourself at home. I will be away to-day but will see
"Pl plum Plm:--Plum pllluuum pl plum. P plum pl plum pl-plm plm plum plm

you again to-night. Don't be surprised if somebody makes you a visit."
plm pluum pl-pluum. Plm'p pl pllllllum pl plllluum pluum plm p pllum."




The "somebody" was heavily underscored and Nathaniel's pulse quickened
Plm "plluuuum" plm pluuuum pllllllllum plm Plllluuum'p pluum plluuuuum

and a sudden flush of excitement surged into his face as he read the
plm p plllum pluum pl plllllluum plllum plum plm plum pl pl plum plm

meaning of it. The "somebody" was Strang's wife. There could be no other
pllluum pl pl. Plm "pllluuum" plm Pluuum'p plum. Pluum pluum pl pl pllum

interpretation. He went to the trap and called down for Obadiah but
plllllllllllum. Pl plum pl plm plum plm plluum plum plm Pluuuum plm

there was no answer. The councilor had already gone. Quickly eating his
pllum plm pl plllum. Plm pluuuuuum plm pllllum plum. Pluuuum plllum plm

breakfast the master of the _Typhoon_ climbed down the ladder into the
pllllluum plm pluuum pl plm pLllluuum plluuum plum plm plluum plum plm

room below. The remains of the councilor's breakfast were on a table
plum pluum. Plm pllluum pl plm pllllllum'p pllluuuum plum pl p pluum

near the door, and the door was open. Through it came a glory of
plum plm plum, plm plm plum plm plum. Pllllum pl plum p pluum pl

sunshine and the fresh breath of the forest laden with the perfume of
plllluum plm plm pllum plllum pl plm plllum pluum plum plm pllllum pl

wild flowers and balsam. A thousand birds seemed caroling and twittering
plum pllllum plm plluum. P pluuuuum pllum plllum plllllum plm plllllluum

in the sunlit solitude about the cabin. Beyond this there was no other
pl plm plllum pllluuum pluum plm pllum. Plluum plum pllum plm pl pluum

sound or sign of life. For many minutes Nathaniel stood in the open, his
pluum pl plum pl plum. Plm plum plluuum Pllllllum pllum pl plm plum, plm

eyes on the path along which he knew that Strang's wife would come--if
plum pl plm plum pluum pllum pl plum plum Plllum'p plum pluum plum--pl

she came at all. Suddenly he began to examine the ground where the girl
plm plum pl plm. Plluuuum pl pllum pl pllluum plm pluuum pllum plm plum

had stood the previous night. The dainty imprints of her feet were
plm pluum plm pluuuuum pluum. Plm pluuum plluuuum pl plm plum plum

plainly discernible in the soft earth. Then he went to the path--and
pluuuum pllllllllum pl plm plum pluum. Plum pl plum pl plm plum--plm

with a laugh so loud that it startled the birds into silence he set off
plum p pllum pl plum plum pl plllllum plm pllum plum pluuuum pl plm plm

with long strides in the direction of St. James. From the footprints in
plum plum plluuum pl plm pllllllum pl Pl. Pllum. Plum plm pllluuuuum pl

that path it was quite evident that Strang's wife was a frequent visitor
plum plum pl plm pluum plluuum plum Pluuum'p plum plm p pluuuuum plluuum

at Obadiah's.
pl Pluuuum'p.




At the edge of the forest, from where he could see the log house
Pl plm plum pl plm pluuum, plum pllum pl pluum plm plm plm pllum

situated across the opening, Nathaniel paused. He had made up his mind
pluuuuum plllum plm plluuum, Pllllllum plluum. Pl plm plum pl plm plum

that the girl whom he had seen through the king's window was in some way
plum plm plum plum pl plm plum pllllum plm plum'p plluum plm pl plum plm

associated with it. Obadiah had hinted as much and she had come from
plluuuuuum plum pl. Pluuuum plm pluuum pl plum plm plm plm plum plum

there on her way to Strang's. But as the prophet's wives lived in his
pluum pl plm plm pl Plllum'p. Plm pl plm pllllum'p pluum pluum pl plm

castle at St. James this surely could not be her home. More than ever he
plllum pl Pl. Pluum plum plluum pllum plm pl plm plum. Plum plum plum pl

was puzzled. As he looked he saw a figure suddenly appear from among the
plm pllluum. Pl pl plllum pl plm p plllum plluuuum plluum plum pluum plm

mass of lilac bushes that almost concealed the cabin. An involuntary
plum pl pluum plllum plum plluum pllllluum plm pllum. Pl plluuuuuuum

exclamation of satisfaction escaped him and he drew back deeper among
pllllluuuum pl plluuuuuuuum plluuum plm plm pl plum plum plluum pluum

the trees. It was the councilor who had shown himself. For a few moments
plm pllum. Pl plm plm pllllluum plm plm pllum pllluum. Plm p plm plluuum

the old man stood gazing in the direction of St. James as if watching
plm plm plm pluum plllum pl plm pllllluum pl Pl. Pllum pl pl plllluum

for the approach of other persons. Then he dodged cautiously along the
plm plm plllllum pl pluum plluuum. Plum pl plluum plllluuuum pllum plm

edge of the bushes, keeping half within their cover, and moved swiftly
plum pl plm plllum, plluuum plum plllum pluum pluum, plm pllum plluuum

in the opposite direction toward the center of the island. Nathaniel's
pl plm pllluuum pllluuuum plllum plm pluuum pl plm pluuum. Pluuuuuum'p

blood leaped with a desire to follow. The night before he had guessed
pluum plluum plum p plllum pl plluum. Plm pllum plllum pl plm pllluum

that Obadiah with his gold and his smoldering passion was not a man to
plum Pllllum plum plm plum plm plm pllllluuum pllluum plm plm p plm pl

isolate himself in the heart of the forest. Here--across the open--was
pluuuum plluuum pl plm pluum pl plm pluuum. Plum--pluuum plm plum--plm

evidence of another side of his life. In that great square-built
plluuuum pl plluuum plum pl plm plum. Pl plum pluum pluuum-pluum

domicile of logs, screened so perfectly by flowering lilac, lived
plllllum pl plum, pluuuuum pl pllllluum pl pllllllum pllum, pluum

Obadiah's wives. Captain Plum laughed aloud and beat the bowl of his
Pllluum'p pllum. Pllluum Plum pllllum pllum plm plum plm plum pl plm

pipe on the tree beside him. And the _girl_ lived there--or came from
plum pl plm plum plluum plm. Plm plm plllum pluum pluum--pl plum plum

there to the woodland cabin so frequently that her feet had beaten a
pllum pl plm plluuuum pllum pl plluuuuuum plum plm plum plm pluuum p

well-worn path. Had the councilor lied to him? Was the girl he had seen
plum-plum plum. Plm plm plllluuum plum pl plm? Plm plm plum pl plm plum

through the King's window one of the seven wives of Strang--or was she
plluuum plm Plum'p plllum plm pl plm pllum pluum pl Plluum--pl plm plm

the wife of Obadiah Price?
plm plum pl Pllluum Pllum?




The thought was one that thrilled him. If the girl was the councilor's
Plm pllllum plm plm plum pllluuum plm. Pl plm plum plm plm plluuuuum'p

wife what was the motive of Obadiah's falsehood? And if she was Strang's
plum plum plm plm plllum pl Pluuuum'p pllluuuum? Plm pl plm plm Plllum'p

wife why had her feet--and hers alone with the exception of the old
plum plm plm plm plum--plm plum pllum plum plm pllllllum pl plm plm

man's--worn this path from the lilac smothered house to the cabin in the
plm'p--plum plum plum plum plm pllum pllluuuum pllum pl plm pllum pl plm

woods? The captain of the _Typhoon_ regretted now that he had given such
pllum? Plm pllluum pl plm pLluuuuum pllluuuum plm plum pl plm pllum plum

explicit orders to Casey. Otherwise he would have followed the figure
plllllum pluuum pl Pluum. Pluuuuuum pl pluum plum pllluuum plm plluum

that was already disappearing into the forest on the opposite side of
plum plm pllluum plluuuuuuuum plum plm pluuum pl plm plluuuum plum pl

the clearing. But now he must see Strang. There might be delay,
plm pluuuuum. Plm plm pl plum plm Plluum. Pluum pllum pl pllum,

necessary delay, and if it so happened that his own blundering curiosity
pllllllum pllum, plm pl pl pl pluuuuum plum plm plm pllluuuuum pllllllum

kept him on the island until sundown--well, he smiled as he thought of
plum plm pl plm plllum pluum plluuum--plum, pl plluum pl pl pluuuum pl

what Casey would do.
plum Pllum pllum pl.




Refilling his pipe and leaving a trail of smoke behind him he set out
Plluuuuum plm plum plm plluuum p pluum pl pllum plluum plm pl plm plm

boldly for St. James. When he came to the three graves he stopped,
plluum plm Pl. Pluum. Plum pl plum pl plm pllum plluum pl plluuum,

remembering that Obadiah had said they were his graves. A sort of grim
pluuuuuuuum plum Pllllum plm plum plum plum plm plluum. P plum pl plum

horror began to stir at his soul as he gazed on the grass-grown
pluuum pllum pl plum pl plm plum pl pl pluum pl plm pllum-pluum

mounds--proofs that the old councilor would inherit a place in the
plluum--plluum plum plm plm pllllluum pllum pllluum p pllum pl plm

Mormon Heaven having obeyed the injunctions of his prophet on earth.
Plluum Pluuum plllum plluum plm plluuuuuuum pl plm pllluum pl pllum.

Nathaniel now understood the meaning of his words of the night before.
Pllluuuum plm pluuuuuuum plm pllluum pl plm pluum pl plm pluum plllum.

This was the family burying ground of the old councilor.
Plum plm plm plluum pllllum pluuum pl plm plm plluuuuum.




He walked on, trying in vain to concentrate his mind solely upon the
Pl plllum pl, plluum pl plum pl plllllluuum plm plum plllum plum plm

business that was ahead of him. A few days before he would have counted
pllluuum plum plm pluum pl plm. P plm plum plluum pl pluum plum pllllum

this walk to St. James one of the events of his life. Now it had lost
plum plum pl Pl. Pllum plm pl plm pluuum pl plm plum. Plm pl plm plum

its fascination. Despite his efforts to destroy the vision of the
plm pllllllluum. Pllluum plm pllllum pl pluuuum plm plllum pl plm

beautiful face that had looked at him through the king's window its
pllllluum plum plum plm pluuum pl plm pluuuum plm plum'p pluuum plm

memory still haunted him. The eyes, soft with appeal; the red mouth,
pluuum pllum pluuuum plm. Plm plum, plum plum plluum; plm plm pluum,

quivering, and with lips parted as if about to speak to him; the bowed
pllllllum, plm plum plum pluuum pl pl pluum pl pluum pl plm; plm pllum

head with its tumbled glory of hair--all had burned themselves upon his
plum plum plm pllluum pllum pl plum--plm plm plllum pluuuuuuum plum plm

soul in a picture too deep to be eradicated. If St. James was
plum pl p pllllum plm plum pl pl plllluuuum. Pl Pl. Pluum plm

interesting now it was because that face was a part of it, because the
plllluuuuum plm pl plm pluuuum plum plum plm p plum pl pl, pllllum plm

secret of its life, of the misery that it had confessed to him, was
plluum pl plm plum, pl plm plluum plum pl plm pllllllum pl plm, plm

hidden somewhere down there among its scattered log homes.
plluum pluuuuuum plum pllum pluum plm plluuuuum plm pluum.




Slowly he made his way down the slope in the direction of Strang's
Plluum pl plum plm plm plum plm pllum pl plm plluuuuum pl Plluum'p

castle, the tower of which, surmounted by its great beacon, glistened in
pluuum, plm pluum pl pluum, plllllllum pl plm pluum pluuum, pluuuuuum pl

the morning sun. He would find Strang there. And there would be one
plm pluuuum plm. Pl pllum plum Plluum pluum. Plm pllum pllum pl plm

chance in a thousand of seeing the girl--if Obadiah had spoken the
plluum pl p pllluuum pl pluuum plm plum--pl Plluuum plm plllum plm

truth. As he passed down he met men and boys coming up the slope and
pluum. Pl pl pluuum plum pl plm plm plm plum plllum pl plm pluum plm

others moving along at the bottom of it, all going toward the interior
plluum plllum pllum pl plm plluum pl pl, plm pllum plluum plm plllllum

of the island. They had shovels or rakes or hoes upon their shoulders
pl plm pluuum. Plum plm pluuuum pl pluum pl plum plum pluum pllllluum

and he guessed that the Mormon fields were in that direction; others
plm pl pllllum plum plm Plluum plllum plum pl plum pluuuuuum; plllum

bore axes; and now and then wagons, many of them drawn by oxen, left the
plum plum; plm plm plm plum plllum, plum pl plum pllum pl plum, plum plm

town over the road that ran near the shore of the lake. Those whom he
plum plum plm plum plum plm plum plm pllum pl plm plum. Pluum plum pl

met stared at him curiously, much interested evidently in the appearance
plm plluum pl plm plluuuuum, plum plluuuuuum pluuuuuum pl plm pllllluuum

of a stranger. Nathaniel paid but small heed to them. As he entered the
pl p plllllum. Plllluuum plum plm pluum plum pl plum. Pl pl pluuuum plm

grove through which the councilor had guided him the night before his
pllum pllluum pluum plm plluuuuum plm plluum plm plm pllum plluum plm

eagerness became almost excitement. He approached the great log house
pllllluum plllum plluum pllluuuuum. Pl plllluuuum plm pllum plm pluum

swiftly but cautiously, keeping as much from view as possible. As he
pluuuum plm pllluuuuum, plluuum pl plum plum plum pl plllluum. Pl pl

came under the window through which he had looked upon the king and his
plum pllum plm plluum pluuuum pllum pl plm plluum plum plm plum plm plm

wives his heart leaped with anticipation, with hope that was strangely
pluum plm pllum pluuum plum pluuuuuuuuum, plum plum plum plm pluuuuuum

mingled with fear. For only a moment he paused to listen, and
pllllum plum plum. Plm plum p plllum pl pluuum pl plluum, plm

notwithstanding the seriousness of his position he could not repress a
plllluuuuuuuuum plm pllllllllum pl plm plluuuum pl pluum plm pllllum p

smile as there came to his ears the crying of children and the high
pllum pl pllum plum pl plm plum plm pluuum pl plluuuum plm plm plum

angry voice of a woman. He passed around to the front of the house. The
pluum pluum pl p pluum. Pl plluum pluuum pl plm pluum pl plm pllum. Plm

door of Strang's castle was wide open and unguarded. No one had seen his
plum pl Pluuum'p pluuum plm plum plum plm plllluuum. Pl plm plm plum plm

approach; no one accosted him as he mounted the low steps; there was no
plllluum; pl plm plluuuum plm pl pl plluuum plm plm pluum; pluum plm pl

one in the room into which he gazed a moment later. It was the great
plm pl plm plum plum pluum pl pluum p pluuum pllum. Pl plm plm pllum

hall into which he had spied a few hours previous. There was the long
plum plum pluum pl plm pluum p plm pluum plllluum. Pllum plm plm plum

table with the big book on it, the lamp whose light had bathed the
pluum plum plm plm plum pl pl, plm plum pllum pllum plm pluuum plm

girl's head in a halo of glory, the very chair in which he had found her
plum'p plum pl p plum pl pllum, plm plum pluum pl pluum pl plm pllum plm

sitting! He was conscious of a throbbing in his breast, a longing to
pllllum! Pl plm plluuuuum pl p pllllllum pl plm pluuum, p pluuuum pl

call out--if he only knew her name.
plum plm--pl pl plum plum plm plum.




In the room there were four closed doors and it was from beyond these
Pl plm plum pluum plum plum plluum pllum plm pl plm plum plllum pluum

that there came to him the wailing of children. A fifth door was open
plum pluum plum pl plm plm pllluum pl plllluum. P pluum plum plm plum

and through it he saw a cradle gently rocking. Here at last was visible
plm pllluum pl pl plm p plllum plllum plluuum. Plum pl plum plm pllluum

life, or motion at least, and he knocked loudly. Very gradually the
plum, pl pluuum pl pllum, plm pl plluuum plllum. Plum pluuuuuum plm

cradle ceased its movement. Then it stopped, and a woman came out into
plllum pluuum plm pluuuuum. Plum pl pllllum, plm p pllum plum plm plum

the larger room. In a moment Nathaniel recognized her as the one who had
plm plllum plum. Pl p plllum Pllllluum pluuuuuuum plm pl plm plm plm plm

placed a caressing hand upon the bowed head of the sobbing girl the
pluuum p pllluuuum plum plum plm pllum plum pl plm pllluum plum plm

night before. Her face was of pathetic beauty. Its whiteness was
pllum plluum. Plm plum plm pl plluuuum plllum. Plm pluuuuuum plm

startling. Her eyes shone with an unhealthy luster, and her dark hair,
pluuuuuum. Plm plum pluum plum pl pllllluum pluuum, plm plm plum plum,

falling in heavy curls over her shoulder, added to the wonderful pallor
plluuum pl pluum pluum plum plm pluuuuum, pllum pl plm plllluuum plllum

of her cheeks.
pl plm pluuum.




Nathaniel bowed. "I beg your pardon, madam; I came to see Mr. Strang,"
Plllluuum pllum. "P plm plum plluum, pluum; P plum pl plm Pl. Plluum,"

he said.
pl plum.




"You will find the king at his office," she replied.
"Plm plum plum plm plum pl plm plllum," plm pllluum.




The woman's voice was low, but so sweet that it was like music to the
Plm pluum'p pllum plm plm, plm pl pluum plum pl plm plum pllum pl plm

ear. As she spoke she came nearer and a faint flush appeared in the
plm. Pl plm pluum plm plum plllum plm p pllum pluum plllllum pl plm

transparency of her cheek.
pluuuuuuuuum pl plm pllum.




"Why do you wish to see the king?" she asked.
"Plm pl plm plum pl plm plm plum?" plm pllum.




Was there a tremble of fear in her voice? Even as he looked Nathaniel
Plm pllum p pluuuum pl plum pl plm pllum? Plum pl pl plluum Pllllllum

saw the flush deepen in her cheeks and her eyes light with nervous
plm plm pluum plluum pl plm plllum plm plm plum pllum plum pluuuum

eagerness.
pllllluum.




"I am sent by Obadiah Price," he hazarded.
"P pl plum pl Pluuuum Pllum," pl plluuuum.




A flash of relief shot into the woman's face.
P pllum pl plllum plum plum plm pllum'p plum.




"The king is at his office," she repeated. "His office is near the
"Plm plum pl pl plm plllum," plm pluuuuum. "Plm pluuum pl plum plm

temple."
plllum."




Nathaniel retired with another bow.
Plllluuum plluuum plum pluuuum plm.




"By thunder, Strang, old boy, you've certainly got an eye for beauty!"
"Pl pllllum, Plllum, plm plm, plm'pl pllllllum plm pl plm plm plluum!"

he laughed as he hurried through the grove.
pl pluuuum pl pl pluuuum pllluum plm pllum.




"And Obadiah Price must be somebody, after all!"
"Plm Pllllum Pluum plum pl plllllum, pluum plm!"




The Mormon temple was the largest structure in St. James, a huge square
Plm Plllum plllum plm plm plluuum pllllluum pl Pl. Pllum, p plum plluum

building of hewn logs, and Nathaniel did not need to make inquiry to
plllluum pl plum plum, plm Plluuuuum plm plm plum pl plum pluuuum pl

find it. On one side was a two-story building with an outside stairway
plum pl. Pl plm plum plm p plm-pluum plllllum plum pl pllluum plluuuum

leading to the upper floor, and a painted sign announced that on this
pllluum pl plm pluum pllum, plm p pllllum plum plllluuum plum pl plum

second floor was situated the office of James Jesse Strang, priest, king
pluuum pllum plm pllluuum plm pluuum pl Pllum Pluum Pluuum, pluuum, plum

and prophet of the Mormons. It was still very early and the general
plm pllluum pl plm Pluuuum. Pl plm pllum plum pllum plm plm pllllum

merchandise store below was not open. Congratulating himself on this
pllllllllum pluum pluum plm plm plum. Pllllllluuuuum plluuum pl plum

fact, and with the fingers of his right hand reaching instinctively for
plum, plm plum plm pluuuum pl plm pluum plum plllluum pllllllluuuum plm

his pistol butt, Captain Plum mounted the stair. When half way up he
plm plllum plum, Pllluum Plum pllluum plm pllum. Plum plum plm pl pl

heard voices. As he reached the landing at the top he caught the quick
pluum plllum. Pl pl pluuuum plm pluuuum pl plm plm pl plllum plm pluum

swish of a skirt. Another step and he was in the open door. He was not
pluum pl p pluum. Pllluum plum plm pl plm pl plm plum plum. Pl plm plm

soon enough to see the person who had just disappeared through an
plum pluuum pl plm plm plluum plm plm plum pllllluuuum pllluum pl

opposite door but he knew that it was a woman. Directly in front of him
pluuuuum plum plm pl plum plum pl plm p pluum. Plllluum pl pluum pl plm

as if she had been expecting his arrival was a young girl, and no sooner
pl pl plm plm plum pllllllum plm pluuuum plm p pluum plum, plm pl pluuum

had he put a foot over the threshold than she hurried toward him, the
plm pl plm p plum plum plm pllllluum plum plm pllluum pluuum plm, plm

most acute anxiety and fear written in her face.
plum pluum pllllum plm plum pllllum pl plm plum.




"You are Captain Plum?" she asked breathlessly.
"Plm plm Pllllum Plum?" plm pluum plllllluuuum.




Nathaniel stopped in astonishment.
Pllllllum pllllum pl plllllllllum.




"Yes, I'm--"
"Plm, P'p--"




"Then you must hurry--hurry!" cried the girl excitedly. "You have not a
"Plum plm plum pllum--pllum!" pllum plm plum pluuuuuum. "Plm plum plm p

moment to lose! Go back to your ship before it is too late! She says
plluum pl plum! Pl plum pl plum plum plluum pl pl plm plum! Plm plum

they will kill you--"
plum plum plum plm--"




"Who says so?" thundered Captain Plum. He sprang to the girl's side and
"Plm plum pl?" pluuuuuum Pllllum Plum. Pl plluum pl plm plum'p plum plm

caught her by the arm. "Who says that I will be killed? Tell me--who
plllum plm pl plm plm. "Plm plum plum P plum pl pluuum? Plum pl--plm

gave you this warning for me?"
plum plm plum pluuuum plm pl?"




"I--I--tell you so!" stammered the young girl. "I--I--heard the
"P--P--plum plm pl!" pllluuuum plm pluum plum. "P--P--pluum plm

king--they will kill you--" Her lips trembled. Nathaniel saw that her
plum--plum plum plum plm--" Plm plum pllluuum. Pllllllum plm plum plm

eyes were already red from crying. "You will go?" she pleaded.
plum plum plluuum plm plum plllum. "Plm plum pl?" plm pluuuum.




Nathaniel had taken her hand and now he held it tightly in his own. His
Pllllllum plm pluum plm plum plm plm pl plum pl pllluum pl plm plm. Plm

head was thrown back, his eyes were upon the door across the room. When
plum plm plllum plum, plm plum plum plum plm plum plllum plm plum. Plum

he looked again into the girlish face there was flashing joyous defiance
pl plluum pluum plum plm pllluum plum pluum plm plluuuum pluuum plllllum

in his eyes, and in his voice there was confession of the truth that had
pl plm plum, plm pl plm pluum pluum plm plluuuuuum pl plm pllum plum plm

suddenly come to overwhelm whatever law of self preservation he might
plllluum plum pl plluuuuum plluuuum plm pl plum plllluuuuuum pl pllum

have held unto himself.
plum plum plum pllluum.




"No, my dear, I am not going back to my ship," he spoke softly. "Not
"Pl, pl plum, P pl plm pllum plum pl pl plum," pl pllum plluum. "Plm

unless she who is in that room comes out and bids me go herself!"
pluuum plm plm pl pl plum plum pluum plm plm plum pl pl plluuum!"













CHAPTER IV
PLLUUUM PL




THE WHIPPING
PLM PLLLLLUM







Scarce had the words fallen from his lips when there sounded a slow,
Plluum plm plm pluum plllum plum plm plum plum pllum pluuuum p plum,

heavy step on the stair outside. The young girl snatched her hand free
pluum plum pl plm pllum pluuuum. Plm pluum plum plllllum plm plum plum

and caught Nathaniel by the wrist.
plm plllum Pllllluum pl plm pluum.




"It is the king!" she whispered excitedly. "It is the king! Quick--you
"Pl pl plm plum!" plm pllllluum plluuuuum. "Pl pl plm plum! Pluum--plm

still have time! You must go--you must go--"
pluum plum plum! Plm plum pl--plm plum pl--"




She strove to pull him across the room.
Plm plllum pl plum plm plllum plm plum.




"There--through that door!" she urged.
"Pllum--pluuuum plum plum!" plm pllum.




The slowly ascending steps were half way up the stairs. Nathaniel
Plm plluum pllllllum pluum plum plum plm pl plm pluuum. Pllluuuum

hesitated. He knew that a moment before there had passed through that
pluuuuuum. Pl plum plum p plllum plluum pllum plm pluuum pllllum plum

door one who carried with her the odor of lilac and his heart leaped to
plum plm plm pllllum plum plm plm plum pl pluum plm plm pluum plluum pl

its own conclusion who that person was. He had heard the rustle of the
plm plm plllllllum plm plum plluum plm. Pl plm pllum plm pluuum pl plm

girl's skirt. He had seen the last inch of the door close as Strang's
plum'p pllum. Pl plm plum plm plum plum pl plm plum pluum pl Plllum'p

wife pulled it after her. And now he was implored to follow! He sprang
plum pluuum pl pluum plm. Plm plm pl plm plllluum pl pluuum! Pl plluum

forward as the heavy steps neared the landing. His hand was upon the
pluuuum pl plm pluum pluum plllum plm pllllum. Plm plum plm plum plm

latch--when he paused. Then he turned and bent his head close down to
pluum--plum pl plluum. Plum pl pluuum plm plum plm plum pllum plum pl

the girl.
plm plum.




"No, I won't do it, my dear," he whispered. "Just now it might make
"Pl, P plm'p pl pl, pl plum," pl pllluuuum. "Plum plm pl pluum plum

trouble for--her."
pluuuum plm--plm."




He lifted his eyes and saw a man looking at him from the doorway. He
Pl plluum plm plum plm plm p plm pllluum pl plm plum plm pllluum. Pl

needed no further proof to assure him that this was Strang the king of
plluum pl pllllum pllum pl pluuum plm plum plum plm Pluuum plm plum pl

the Mormons, for the Beaver Island prophet was painted well in that
plm Pluuuum, plm plm Plllum Plllum pllllum plm pluuuum plum pl plum

region which knew the grip and terror of his power. He was a massive
plllum pluum plum plm plum plm plluum pl plm pluum. Pl plm p plluuum

man, with the slow slumbering strength of a beast. He was not much under
plm, plum plm plum plllllllum pluuuuum pl p pllum. Pl plm plm plum pllum

fifty; but his thick beard, reddish and crinkling, his shaggy hair, and
pluum; plm plm pllum pluum, pllllum plm plluuuuum, plm plluum plum, plm

the full-fed ruddiness of his face, with its foundation of heavy jaw,
plm plum-plm pllluuuum pl plm plum, plum plm plllllllum pl pllum plm,

gave him a more youthful appearance. There was in his eyes, set deep and
plum plm p plum plluuuum plllllluum. Pllum plm pl plm plum, plm plum plm

so light that they shone like pale blue glass, the staring assurance
pl pluum plum plum pluum plum plum plum pluum, plm plluuum pluuuuuum

that is frequently born of power. In his hand he carried a huge
plum pl plllllllum plum pl pllum. Pl plm plum pl pllllum p plum

metal-knobbed stick.
pluum-pllllum pluum.




In an instant Nathaniel had recovered himself. He advanced a step,
Pl pl plluuum Pllllllum plm plluuuuum pllllum. Pl pllluuum p plum,

bowing coolly.
plluum plluum.




"I am Captain Plum, of the sloop _Typhoon_," he said. "I called at your
"P pl Pllluum Plum, pl plm pllum pLlllluum," pl plum. "P plllum pl plum

home a short time ago and was directed to your office. As a stranger on
plum p pllum plum plm plm plm plllllum pl plum plllum. Pl p plllllum pl

the island I did not know that you had an office or I would have come
plm plluum P plm plm plum plum plm plm pl plluum pl P pluum plum plum

here first."
plum pluum."




"Ah!"
"Pl!"




The king drew his right foot back half a pace and bowed so low that
Plm plum plum plm pllum plum plum plum p plum plm pllum pl plm plum

Nathaniel saw only the crown of his hat. When he raised his head the
Plluuuuum plm plum plm pllum pl plm plm. Plum pl pluuum plm plum plm

aggressive stare had gone out of his eyes and a welcoming smile lighted
pluuuuuuum pluum plm plum plm pl plm plum plm p plluuuuum pllum pllluum

up his face as he advanced with extended hand.
pl plm plum pl pl plllllum plum plllluum plum.




"I am glad to see you, Captain Plum."
"P pl plum pl plm plm, Pllluum Plum."




His voice was deep and rich, filled with that wonderful vibratory power
Plm pllum plm plum plm plum, plluum plum plum plluuuuum pluuuuuum pluum

which seems to strike and attune the hidden chords of one's soul. The
pllum pllum pl pluuum plm plllum plm plllum plluum pl plm'p plum. Plm

man's appearance had not prepossessed Nathaniel, but at the sound of his
plm'p pllluuuuum plm plm pllluuuuuuum Plllluuum, plm pl plm pluum pl plm

voice he recognized that which had made him the prophet of men. As the
pluum pl pluuuuuuum plum pluum plm plum plm plm plluuum pl plm. Pl plm

warm hand of the king clasped his own Captain Plum knew that he was in
plum plum pl plm plum plluuum plm plm Pluuuum Plum plum plum pl plm pl

the presence of a master of human destinies, a man whose ponderous
plm plllllum pl p plluum pl pluum pllluuuum, p plm pllum plllluuum

red-visaged body was simply the crude instrument through which spoke the
plm-plluuum plum plm pluuum plm pllum plluuuuuum pllllum pllum pluum plm

marvelous spirit that had enslaved thousands to him, that had enthralled
plluuuuum plluum plum plm plllluum plluuuuum pl plm, plum plm plluuuuuum

a state legislature and that had hypnotized a federal jury into giving
p pluum plluuuuuuum plm plum plm plllllluum p pluuuum plum plum plllum

him back his freedom when evidence smothered him in crime. He felt
plm plum plm plluuum plum plluuuum pllllllum plm pl pluum. Pl plum

himself sinking in the presence of this man and struggled fiercely to
pllllum pllluum pl plm plllllum pl plum plm plm plllluuum plluuuum pl

regain himself. He withdrew his hand and straightened himself like a
pluuum plluuum. Pl pllluuum plm plum plm plllllllluum pllllum plum p

soldier.
pllluum.




"I have come to you with a grievance, Mr. Strang," he began. "A
"P plum plum pl plm plum p pllllllum, Pl. Pluuum," pl pllum. "P

grievance which I feel sure you will do your best to right. Perhaps you
pllllluum pllum P plum plum plm plum pl plum plum pl pluum. Pllllum plm

are aware that some little time ago--about two weeks back--your people
plm pluum plum plum plllum plum plm--pllum plm pllum plum--plum plluum

boarded my ship in force and robbed me of several thousand dollars'
pllluum pl plum pl pllum plm pluuum pl pl pllluum plllluum plluuum'

worth of merchandise."
pluum pl plluuuuuuum."




Strang had drawn a step back.
Pluuum plm pllum p plum plum.




"Aware of it!" he exclaimed in a voice that shook the room. "Aware of
"Pluum pl pl!" pl pllluuuum pl p pluum plum pllum plm plum. "Pllum pl

it!" The red of his face turned purple and he clenched his free hand in
pl!" Plm plm pl plm plum plllum pluuum plm pl plllllum plm plum plum pl

sudden passion. "Aware of it!" He repeated the words, this time so
pluuum pllluum. "Pllum pl pl!" Pl plllllum plm pllum, plum plum pl

gently that Nathaniel could scarcely hear them, and tapped his heavy
plluum plum Plllluuum pllum plluuuum plum plum, plm pluuum plm pllum

stick upon the floor. "No, Captain Plum, I was not aware of it. If I
pllum plum plm pluum. "Pl, Pllllum Plum, P plm plm pllum pl pl. Pl P

_had_ been--" He shrugged his thick shoulders. The movement, and a
pluum plum--" Pl pllluuum plm pluum plluuuuum. Plm pluuuuum, plm p

sudden gleam of his teeth through his beard, were expressive enough for
plllum pllum pl plm pluum pllluum plm pllum, plum plllllllum plllum plm

Nathaniel to understand.
Plluuuuum pl plllllluum.




Then the king smiled.
Plum plm plum plllum.




"Are you sure--are you _quite_ sure, Captain Plum, that it was my people
"Plm plm plum--plm plm pllluum plum, Pluuuum Plum, plum pl plm pl plluum

who attacked your ship? If so, of course you must have some proof?"
plm pllluuum plum plum? Pl pl, pl plluum plm plum plum plum pluum?"




"We were very near to Beaver Island and many miles from the mainland,"
"Pl plum plum plum pl Plluum Plluum plm plum pluum plum plm pllluuum,"

said Nathaniel. "It could only have been your people."
plum Pllluuuum. "Pl pllum plum plum plum plum pluuum."




"Ah!"
"Pl!"




Strang led the way to a table at the farther end of the room and
Plllum plm plm plm pl p pllum pl plm pllllum plm pl plm plum plm

motioned Nathaniel to a seat opposite him.
pluuuuum Pllluuuum pl p plum pllluuum plm.




"We are a much persecuted people, Captain Plum, very much persecuted
"Pl plm p plum plllllluum plluum, Pllluum Plum, plum plum plllluuuum

indeed." His wonderful voice trembled with a subdued pathos. "We have
pluuum." Plm pllllluum pllum pllluuum plum p plluuum plllum. "Pl plum

answered for many sins that have never been ours, Captain Plum, and
plllllum plm plum plum plum plum pllum plum plum, Pluuuum Plum, plm

among them are robbery, piracy and even murder. The people along the
pluum plum plm pllllum, plluum plm plum plllum. Plm plllum pllum plm

coasts are deadly enemies to us--who would be their friends; they commit
plllum plm plluum plluuum pl pl--plm pluum pl pluum plluuum; plum plllum

crimes in our name and we do not retaliate. It was not my people who
pluuum pl plm plum plm pl pl plm pllllllum. Pl plm plm pl plllum plm

waylaid your vessel. They were fishermen, probably, who came from the
pluuuum plum plllum. Plum plum pluuuuuum, pluuuuum, plm plum plum plm

Michigan shore and awaited their opportunity off Beaver Island. But I
Plluuuum pluum plm pllllum pluum pllllllllum plm Plluum Pluuum. Plm P

shall investigate this; believe me, I shall investigate this fully,
pluum pllllllllum plum; plluuum pl, P pluum plllluuuuum plum pluum,

Captain Plum!"
Plluuum Plum!"




Nathaniel felt something like a great choking fist shoot up into his
Plllluuum plum pllllllum plum p pllum plluuum plum pllum pl plum plm

throat. It was not a sensation of fear but of humiliation--the
pluuum. Pl plm plm p plluuuuum pl plum plm pl pllllllllum--plm

humiliation of defeat, the knowledge of his own weakness in the hands of
pllllllluum pl plluum, plm plllluuum pl plm plm plllllum pl plm pluum pl

this man who had so quickly and so surely blocked his claim. His quick
plum plm plm plm pl pllluum plm pl pluuum pluuuum plm pllum. Plm pllum

brain saw the futility of argument. He possessed no absolute proof and
pluum plm plm plllluum pl plllllum. Pl pllllllum pl plluuuum pluum plm

he had thought that he needed none. Strang saw the flash of doubt in his
pl plm plluuum plum pl plllum plum. Plllum plm plm pluum pl pluum pl plm

face, the hesitancy in his answer; he divined the working of the other's
plum, plm pllllllum pl plm pluuum; pl pllluum plm pllluum pl plm pllum'p

brain and in his soft voice, purring with friendship, he followed up his
pllum plm pl plm plum pllum, plluuum plum plllllllum, pl plllllum pl plm

triumph.
pllllum.




"I sympathize with you," he spoke gently, "and my sympathy and word
"P pllluuuuum plum plm," pl pllum plllum, "plm pl pluuuuum plm plum

shall help you. We do not welcome strangers among us, for strangers have
pluum plum plm. Pl pl plm pluuuum pllllllum pluum pl, plm pllluuuum plum

usually proved themselves our enemies and have done us wrong. But to you
pllluum plllum pllllluuum plm plluuum plm plum plum pl pllum. Plm pl plm

I give the freedom of our kingdom. Search where you will, at what hours
P plum plm pllluum pl plm pllluum. Plluum pluum plm plum, pl plum pluum

you will, and when you have found a single proof that your stolen
plm plum, plm plum plm plum pluum p plluum pluum plum plum plllum

property is among my people--when you have seen a face that you
pluuuuum pl pluum pl plluum--plum plm plum plum p plum plum plm

recognize as one of the robbers, return to me and I shall make
pllllluum pl plm pl plm pluuuum, pluuum pl pl plm P pllum plum

restitution and punish the evil-doers."
pllllllllum plm pluuum plm plum-pllum."




So intensely he spoke, so filled with reason and truth were his words,
Pl pllllluum pl pllum, pl plllum plum plllum plm pllum plum plm pluum,

that Nathaniel thrust out his hand in token of acceptance of the king's
plum Pllluuuum pluuum plm plm plum pl pllum pl plllluuuum pl plm plum'p

terms. And as Strang gripped that hand Captain Plum saw the young girl's
pluum. Plm pl Plluum plluuum plum plum Pllluum Plum plm plm pllum plum'p

face over the prophet's shoulder--a face, white as death in its terror,
plum plum plm pllllum'p pllluuum--p plum, pllum pl pluum pl plm pluuum,

that told him all he had heard was a lie.
plum plum plm plm pl plm pllum plm p plm.




"And when you have done with my people," continued the king, "you will
"Plm plum plm plum plum plum pl plluum," pllllllum plm plum, "plm plum

go among that other race, along the mainland, where men have thrown off
pl pllum plum pluum plum, pllum plm pllluuum, pllum plm plum plllum plm

the restraints of society to give loose reign to lust and avarice; where
plm plllllllum pl pllllum pl plum pllum pllum pl plum plm pluuuum; pllum

the Indian is brutified that his wife may be intoxicated by compulsion
plm Pluuum pl pllllllum plum plm plum plm pl plllllluuum pl pllllluuum

and prostituted by violence before his eyes; where the forest cabins and
plm pllluuuuuum pl pluuuuum plluum plm plum; pllum plm pluuum pluuum plm

the streets of towns are filled with half-breeds; where there stalk
plm pllllum pl pllum plm plllum plum plum-plluum; pluum pluum pluum

wretches with withered and tearless eyes, who are in nowise troubled by
pllluuum plum plllluum plm plllluum plum, plm plm pl pluuum plllluum pl

recollection of robbery, rape and murder. And _there_ you will find whom
pllluuuuuuum pl pllluum, plum plm pluuum. Plm pllluum plm plum plum plum

you are looking for!"
plm plm pllllum plm!"




Strang had risen to his feet. His eyes blazed with the fire of smothered
Plluum plm pluum pl plm plum. Plm plum pluuum plum plm plum pl plluuuuum

hatred and passion and his great voice rolled through his beard,
plluum plm pllllum plm plm pluum pllum pluuum pllllum plm pllum,

tremulous with excitement, but still deep and rich, like the booming of
pluuuuuum plum pluuuuuuum, plm pluum plum plm plum, plum plm pllluum pl

some melodious instrument. He flung aside his hat as he paced back and
plum pluuuuuum plluuuuuum. Pl pluum pluum plm plm pl pl pluum plum plm

forth; his shaggy hair fell upon his shoulders; huge veins stood out
pllum; plm plllum plum plum plum plm pllllllum; plum pluum pluum plm

upon his forehead--and Nathaniel sat mute as he watched this lion of a
plum plm plllluum--plm Pllllluum plm plum pl pl pllluum plum plum pl p

man whose great throat quivered with the power that might have stirred a
plm pllum pllum pluuum plllllum plum plm pllum plum pluum plum pluuuum p

nation--that might have made him president instead of king. He waited
pluuum--plum pllum plum plum plm pllllluum pluuuum pl plum. Pl plllum

for the thunder of that throat and his nerves keyed themselves to meet
plm plm plluuum pl plum plluum plm plm pluuum pluum plluuuuuum pl plum

its bursting passion. But when Strang spoke again it was in a voice as
plm pluuuuum plluuum. Plm plum Plluum pluum pluum pl plm pl p pluum pl

soft and as gentle as a woman's.
plum plm pl pluuum pl p pllum'p.




"Those are the men who have vilified us, Captain Plum; who have covered
"Pluum plm plm plm plm plum plllluum pl, Plluuum Plum; plm plum pluuuum

us with crimes that we have never committed; who have driven our people
pl plum pluuum plum pl plum pllum plllluuum; plm plum pluuum plm plluum

into groups that they may be free from depredation; who watch like
plum pluuum plum plum plm pl plum plum plllluuuuum; plm pllum plum

vultures to despoil our women; wild wifeless men, Captain Plum, who have
plllluum pl plluuum plm pllum; plum plllluum plm, Pllllum Plum, plm plum

left families and character behind them and who have sought the
plum plllllum plm pllluuuum pluuum plum plm plm plum plllum plm

wilderness to escape the penalties of law and order. It is they who
plllllluum pl pluuum plm pllllllum pl plm plm pllum. Pl pl plum plm

would destroy us. Go among my own people first, Captain Plum, and find
pluum pllluum pl. Pl pluum pl plm pluuum pluum, Plluuum Plum, plm plum

your lost property if you can; and if you can not discover it where in
plum plum pluuuuum pl plm plm; plm pl plm plm plm pllluuum pl pllum pl

seven years not one child has been born out of wedlock, seek among the
pllum pluum plm plm pllum plm plum plum plm pl pllllum, plum pluum plm

Lamanites--and my sheriffs shall follow where you place the crime!"
Pllluuuum--plm pl pllluuum pluum pluuum pllum plm pluum plm pllum!"




He had stretched out his arms like one whose plea was of life and death;
Pl plm pllluuuum plm plm plum plum plm pluum plum plm pl plum plm pluum;

his face shone with earnestness; his low words throbbed as if his heart
plm plum pllum plum pllllllllum; plm plm pluum plllllum pl pl plm pllum

were borne upon them for the inspection of its truth and honor. He was
plum pluum plum plum plm plm pllllluuum pl plm pllum plm pllum. Pl plm

Strang the tragedian, the orator, the conqueror of a legislature, a
Plllum plm pllluuuum, plm plluum, plm pluuuuuum pl p pllluuuuuum, p

governor, a dozen juries--and of human souls. And as he stood silent for
plllllum, p pluum pluuum--plm pl pllum pluum. Plm pl pl pluum pluuum plm

a moment in this attitude Nathaniel rose to his feet, subservient, and
p plluum pl plum plluuuum Pllllluum plum pl plm plum, pllllllllum, plm

believing as others had believed in the fitness of this man. But as his
pllllluum pl plllum plm plluuuum pl plm pllluum pl plum plm. Plm pl plm

eyes traveled a dozen paces beyond, he saw the young girl gesturing to
plum pllluuum p pluum pluum plluum, pl plm plm pluum plum pllllluum pl

him in that same terror, and holding up for him to see a slip of paper
plm pl plum plum plluum, plm pluuuum pl plm plm pl plm p plum pl pllum

upon which she had written. And when she had caught his eyes she
plum pllum plm plm plluuum. Plm plum plm plm plluum plm plum plm

crumpled the paper into a shapeless ball and tossed it just over the
plluuuum plm pllum plum p plllluuum plum plm plluum pl plum plum plm

landing to the ground below the stair.
pllllum pl plm plluum pluum plm pllum.




"I thank you for the privileges of the island which you have offered
"P pllum plm plm plm plluuuuuum pl plm pluuum pllum plm plum pllllum

me," said Nathaniel, putting on his hat, "and I shall certainly take
pl," plum Plluuuuum, pllluum pl plm plm, "plm P pluum pluuuuuum plum

advantage of your kindness for a few hours, as I want very much to
pluuuuuum pl plum plllllum plm p plm pllum, pl P plum plum plum pl

witness one of your ceremonies which I understand is to take place
pllllum plm pl plum plllllllum pllum P pllluuuuum pl pl plum pllum

to-day. Then, if I have discovered nothing, I shall return to my ship."
pl-plm. Plum, pl P plum plllllllum pluuuum, P pluum plluum pl pl plum."




"Ah, you wish to see the whipping?" The king smiled his approval. "That
"Pl, plm plum pl plm plm plllluum?" Plm plum plluum plm pluuuuum. "Plum

is one way we have of punishing slight misdemeanors in our kingdom,
pl plm plm pl plum pl plllluuum pluuum plluuuuuuuum pl plm pllllum,

Captain Plum. It is an illustration of our intolerance of evil-doers."
Pllllum Plum. Pl pl pl plllllllllum pl plm pllllluuuum pl plum-pluum."

He turned suddenly toward the girl. "Winnsome, my dear, have you copied
Pl pluuum plluuuum plllum plm plum. "Pluuuuum, pl plum, plum plm pluuum

the paper I was at work on? I wish to show it to Captain Plum."
plm pluum P plm pl plum pl? P plum pl plum pl pl Plluuum Plum."




He walked slowly toward her and for the first time since her warning
Pl plluum plluum plllum plm plm plm plm pluum plum pluum plm pluuuum

Nathaniel had an opportunity of observing the girl without fear of
Pllluuuum plm pl pluuuuuuuum pl pluuuuuum plm plum plluuum plum pl

being perceived by the prophet. She was very young, hardly more than a
pllum pllllllum pl plm pluuuum. Plm plm plum pluum, plllum plum plum p

child he would have guessed at first; and yet at a second and more
pluum pl pllum plum plluuum pl pllum; plm plm pl p plllum plm plum

careful glance he knew that she could not be under fifteen--perhaps
plluuum pluuum pl plum plum plm pluum plm pl pllum pllluum--plluuum

sixteen. Her whole attire was one to add to her childish appearance. Her
plluuum. Plm pluum plllum plm plm pl plm pl plm plllluum plluuuuuum. Plm

hair, which was rather short, fell in lustrous dark curls about her face
plum, pllum plm plllum pllum, plum pl pluuuuum plum pllum pllum plm plum

and upon her neck. She wore a fitted coat-like blouse, and knee skirts
plm plum plm plum. Plm plum p plllum plum-plum plluum, plm plum pluuum

which disclosed a pretty pair of legs and ankles. As Strang was
pllum pllllluum p plllum plum pl plum plm plluum. Pl Pluuum plm

returning with the paper which she handed to him the girl turned her
plllluuum plum plm pluum pllum plm plllum pl plm plm plum plluum plm

face to Captain Plum. Her mouth was formed into a round red O and she
plum pl Pllluum Plum. Plm pluum plm pluuum plum p pluum plm P plm plm

pointed anxiously to where she had thrown the note. The king's eyes were
pllluum plllluuum pl pluum plm plm plllum plm plum. Plm plum'p plum plum

on his paper and Nathaniel nodded to assure her that he understood.
pl plm pllum plm Plllluuum pluuum pl pluuum plm plum pl pluuuuuuum.




"I am like a gardener who compels every passing neighbor to go into his
"P pl plum p pllluuum plm pllluum pllum pllllum plllluum pl pl plum plm

back yard and admire his first sprouts," laughed the prophet jovially.
plum plum plm plllum plm pluum pluuuum," pllllum plm pluuuum plllluum.

"In other words, I do a little writing, and I take a kind of childish
"Pl pluum pluum, P pl p plllum pllluum, plm P plum p plum pl plllllum

joy in making other people read it. But I see this is not in proper
plm pl plllum pllum pluuum plum pl. Plm P plm plum pl plm pl pluuum

shape, so you have escaped. It is a brief history of Beaver Island
pluum, pl plm plum pllluum. Pl pl p pluum plluuum pl Pluuum Pluuum

written at the request of the Smithsonian Institute, which has already
pllllum pl plm pluuuum pl plm Plllluuuuum Plluuuuum, pluum plm pluuuum

published an article of mine. If you happen to be on the island
plllluuum pl pllllum pl plum. Pl plm plluum pl pl pl plm plllum

to-morrow and should you return to this office I shall certainly have
pl-plluum plm plluum plm plllum pl plum plllum P pluum plllluuum plum

you read it if I have to call all of my sheriffs into service!"
plm plum pl pl P plum pl plum plm pl pl plllllum plum pllllum!"




He laughed with such open good-humor that Nathaniel found himself
Pl plluuum plum plum plum plum-pllum plum Pllllluum pllum pluuuum

smiling despite the varied unpleasant sensations within him. "Do you
pllllum pllluum plm plluum plluuuuuum plllluuuum pluuum plm. "Pl plm

write much?" he asked.
pluum plum?" pl pllum.




"I get out a daily paper," said the king rather proudly, "and of course,
"P plm plm p pllum pluum," plum plm plum plllum plluuum, "plm pl plluum,

as prophet, I am the translator of what word may be handed down to us
pl pllllum, P pl plm pluuuuuuum pl plum plum plm pl plluum plum pl pl

from Heaven for the direction and commandment of my people. I hold the
plum Pluuum plm plm plllluuum plm pllllllluum pl pl plllum. P plum plm

secret of the Urim and Thummin, which was first delivered by angels into
plluum pl plm Plum plm Pllluum, pluum plm pluum pllluuuum pl plluum plum

the hands of Joseph, and with it have revealed the word of God as it
plm pllum pl Plllum, plm plum pl plum pluuuuum plm plum pl Plm pl pl

appears in a book which I have written. Ah--I had forgotten this!" From
pllluum pl p plum pluum P plum pllllum. Pl--P plm plllluuum plum!" Plum

among a mass of papers and books on the table he drew forth a
pluum p plum pl plluum plm pllum pl plm pllum pl plum pluum p

blue-covered pamphlet and passed it to his companion. "I have only a few
plum-pllluum pllluuum plm plllum pl pl plm pllllluum. "P plum plum p plm

copies left but you may have this one, Captain Plum. It will surely
plllum plum plm plm plm plum plum plm, Pluuuum Plum. Pl plum pluuum

interest you. In it I have set forth the troubles existing between my
plluuuum plm. Pl pl P plum plm pllum plm plllluum pluuuuum pllllum pl

own people and the cyprian-rotted criminals that infest Mackinac and the
plm pluuum plm plm pllluum-pluuum pllluuuum plum plllum Pllluuum plm plm

mainland and have described our struggle for chastity and honor against
plluuuum plm plum plllluuum plm plllluum plm pluuuuum plm pluum pllluum

these human vultures. It was published two years ago. But conditions are
pllum pluum plllluum. Pl plm pllllllum plm pllum plm. Plm pllluuuuum plm

different to-day. Now--now I am king, and the oppressors in the filth of
plluuuuum pl-plm. Plm--plm P pl plum, plm plm plllllluum pl plm pllum pl

their crime have become the oppressed!"
pllum pluum plum plluum plm plluuuuum!"




The last words boomed from him in a slogan of triumph and as if in
Plm plum pluum pluuum plum plm pl p plluum pl pllluum plm pl pl pl

echoing mockery there came from the open door the chuckling, mirthless
pluuuum plluuum pllum plum plum plm plum plum plm pllllluum, pllluuuum

laugh of Obadiah Price.
pluum pl Plluuum Pluum.




"Yea--yea--even into the land of the Lamanites are you king!"
"Plm--plm--plum plum plm plum pl plm Pllluuuum plm plm plum!"




At the sound of his voice Strang turned toward him and the sonorous
Pl plm pllum pl plm pluum Plllum pluuum plllum plm plm plm pluuuuum

triumph that rumbled in his throat faded to a low greeting. And
pluuuum plum pluuuum pl plm plllum pllum pl p plm pluuuuum. Plm

Nathaniel saw that the little old councilor's eyes glittered boldly as
Pluuuuuum plm plum plm plluum plm plllluuum'p plum pllluuuum plluum pl

they met the prophet's and that in their glance was neither fear nor
plum plm plm pllluum'p plm plum pl pluum pluuum plm pllllum plum plm

servitude but rather a light as of master meeting master. The two
pluuuuuum plm plluum p pllum pl pl pluuum pllluum pluuum. Plm plm

advanced and clasped hands and a few low words passed between them while
plluuuum plm plluuum pllum plm p plm plm pluum pluuum pluuuum plum pllum

Nathaniel went to the door.
Plluuuuum plum pl plm plum.




"I will go with you, Captain Nathaniel Plum," called Obadiah. "I will go
"P plum pl plum plm, Pluuuum Plllluuum Plum," plllum Pllllum. "P plum pl

with you and show you the town."
plum plm plm plum plm plm plum."




"The councilor will be your friend," added Strang. "To-day he carries
"Plm plluuuuum plum pl plum plllum," pllum Pluuum. "Pl-plm pl pllllum

with him that authority from the king."
plum plm plum pllluuuum plum plm plum."




He bowed and Nathaniel passed through the door. Looking back he caught a
Pl pluum plm Pluuuuuum plllum pllluum plm plum. Pluuuum plum pl plllum p

last warning flash from the girl's eyes. As he hurried down the stair he
plum pllluum pluum plum plm plum'p plum. Pl pl pllluum plum plm pluum pl

heard the councilor pause for an instant upon the landing and taking
pluum plm plllluuum pluum plm pl plluuum plum plm pllluum plm plllum

advantage of this opportunity he picked up the bit of crumpled paper,
pllllllum pl plum pllllllllum pl plluum pl plm plm pl plluuuum pllum,

and read these lines:
plm plum pllum pllum:




"Hurry to your ship. In another hour men will be watching for an
"Pluum pl plum plum. Pl plluuum plum plm plum pl plluuuum plm pl

opportunity to kill you. You will never leave the island alive--_unless
pllllllluum pl plum plm. Plm plum pluum pluum plm pluuum pllum--pllllum

you go now_. The girl you saw through the window sends you this
plm pl plum. Plm plum plm plm pllluum plm plllum pllum plm plum

warning."
pllluum."




He thrust the paper into his coat pocket as Obadiah came up behind him.
Pl pluuum plm pluum plum plm plum plluum pl Plluuum plum pl plluum plm.




"Ho, ho, Nat, my boy, I have come fast to catch you--I have come fast!"
"Pl, pl, Plm, pl plm, P plum plum plum pl pluum plm--P plum plum plum!"

he whispered. He caught his companion by the arm and Nathaniel felt his
pl pllluuuum. Pl plllum plm pluuuuuum pl plm plm plm Pllllluum plum plm

hand trembling violently. "Come this way, Nat--beyond the temple. I have
plum pllluuuum plllluuum. "Plum plum plm, Plm--pluuum plm plluum. P plum

things to say to you." His voice was strangely unnatural and when
plllum pl plm pl plm." Plm pllum plm pllllluum pllllluum plm plum

Captain Plum looked down into his face the look in the bead-like eyes
Pllllum Plum plllum plum plum plm plum plm plum pl plm plum-plum plum

startled him. "Nat, you must hurry away with the package!"
pluuuuum plm. "Plm, plm plum pluum plum plum plm pllllum!"




"So I understand--if I save my skin. Obadiah Price, I have a notion to
"Pl P plllluuuum--pl P plum pl plum. Pllllum Pluum, P plum p plllum pl

kill you!"
plum plm!"




They had passed beyond the huge edifice of logs, and as he stopped,
Plum plm plllum plluum plm plum pluuuum pl plum, plm pl pl pllllum,

hidden from the view of the king's office, Nathaniel caught the
plllum plum plm plum pl plm plum'p plllum, Pluuuuuum pluuum plm

councilor's arm in a grip that crushed to the bone.
pllluuuum'p plm pl p plum plum plluuum pl plm plum.




"I have a notion to kill you!" he repeated.
"P plum p pluuum pl plum plm!" pl plluuuum.




The old man stood unflinching. Not a muscle of his face quivered as the
Plm plm plm pllum pllluuuuuum. Plm p pluuum pl plm plum plllluum pl plm

captain's fingers sank into his flesh.
pluuuum'p pllllum plum plum plm pluum.




"At the first sign of treachery, at the first sign of danger to myself,
"Pl plm pllum plum pl plluuuuum, pl plm pluum plum pl pluuum pl plllum,

I shall shoot you dead!" he finished.
P pluum pllum plm plum!" pl pluuuuum.




"You may, Nat, you may. From this moment until you leave the island I
"Plm plm, Plm, plm plm. Plum plum pluuum pllum plm pllum plm plllum P

shall be at your side and no harm shall come to you. But if there
pluum pl pl plum plum plm pl plum pluum plum pl plm. Plm pl pllum

should, Nat, or if there should come a moment when you believe that I am
plluum, Plm, pl pl pllum pluuum plum p pluuum plum plm pllluum plum P pl

your enemy--shoot me!" There was sincerity in his voice that carried
plum pluum--pllum pl!" Pllum plm pluuuuuum pl plm pluum plum pllllum

conviction to Nathaniel's heart and he released his hold upon the
pllllluuum pl Plluuuuum'p pluum plm pl plllluum plm plum plum plm

councilor's arm. Regardless of the mystery that surrounded him he
pllllllum'p plm. Plllllluum pl plm pllllum plum plllllllum plm pl

believed in Obadiah. But there rose in his breast a mad desire to choke
plllluum pl Pluuuum. Plm pluum plum pl plm plllum p plm plllum pl pluum

this old man into telling him the truth, to force him to reveal the
plum plm plm plum pllllum plm plm pllum, pl pllum plm pl plllum plm

secrets of this strange plot into which he had been drawn and of which
pluuuum pl plum pllllum plum plum pluum pl plm plum pllum plm pl pllum

he knew as little as when he first set foot in Strang's kingdom. Yet he
pl plum pl pluuum pl plum pl pluum plm plum pl Pluuum'p pllluum. Plm pl

realized even as the desire formed itself in his brain that such an
plllllum plum pl plm plluum pluuum pluuum pl plm pllum plum plum pl

effort would be useless.
plluum pllum pl plluuum.




"If you had remained at the cabin, Nat, you would have known that I was
"Pl plm plm plluuuum pl plm pllum, Plm, plm pluum plum pluum plum P plm

your friend," continued Obadiah. "She would have come to you, but
plum plllum," plllluuum Plluuum. "Plm pllum plum plum pl plm, plm

now--it is impossible. You know. You have been warned?"
plm--pl pl pluuuuuuum. Plm plum. Plm plum plum pluuum?"




Nathaniel drew Winnsome's note from his pocket and read it aloud.
Pllluuuum plum Plllllum'p plum plum plm plluum plm plum pl pllum.

Obadiah smiled gleefully when he noticed how carefully he kept the
Plluuum plluum plllluuum plum pl pllluum plm pllllllum pl plum plm

handwriting from his eyes.
plluuuuuuum plum plm plum.




"Ah, Nat, you are a noble fellow!" he cried, rubbing his hands in his
"Pl, Plm, plm plm p pllum plluum!" pl pluum, plluuum plm pllum pl plm

old tireless way. "You would not betray pretty little Winn, eh? And who
plm pluuuuum plm. "Plm pluum plm plluum plllum plluum Plum, pl? Plm plm

do you suppose told Winnsome to give you this note?"
pl plm pllluum plum Plllllum pl plum plm plum plum?"




"Strang's wife."
"Pluuum'p plum."




"Yea, even so. And it was she who set my old legs a-running for you, my
"Plm, plum pl. Plm pl plm plm plm plm pl plm plum p-pllllum plm plm, pl

boy. Come, let us move!"
plm. Plum, plm pl plum!"




The little councilor was his old self again, chuckling and grimacing and
Plm plluum plllluuum plm plm plm plum pllum, pllllllum plm pllllluum plm

rubbing his hands, and his eyes danced as he spoke of the girl.
pllllum plm pluum, plm plm plum pluuum pl pl pluum pl plm plum.




"Casey is not a cautious man," he gurgled with a sudden upward leer.
"Pllum pl plm p pluuuuum plm," pl pllluum plum p pluuum plllum plum.

"Casey is a fool!"
"Pluum pl p plum!"




"Casey!" almost shouted Captain Plum. "What the devil do you mean?"
"Pllum!" plllum pllluum Pluuuum Plum. "Plum plm pluum pl plm plum?"




"Ho, ho, ho--haven't you guessed the truth yet, Nat? While you and I
"Pl, pl, pl--pllum'p plm plluuum plm pllum plm, Plm? Pluum plm plm P

were getting acquainted last night a couple of fishermen from the
plum pllluum pluuuuuuum plum pllum p pluuum pl plluuuuum plum plm

mainland dropped alongside your sloop. They had been robbed by the
pluuuuum pllllum plluuuuum plum pluum. Plum plm plum plllum pl plm

Mormon pirates! They cursed Strang. They swore vengeance. And your
Pluuum plluuum! Plum plluum Plllum. Plum pllum pluuuuuum. Plm plum

cautious Casey cursed with 'em, and fed 'em, and drank with 'em--and he
pllluuum Pllum pluuum plum 'pl, plm plm 'pl, plm pluum plum 'pl--plm pl

would have had them stay until morning only they were anxious to hurry
pluum plum plm plum plum pluum pluuuum plum plum plum pluuuum pl pllum

with their report to Strang. Understand, Nat? Eh? Do you understand?"
plum pluum pluuum pl Plllum. Plluuuuuum, Plm? Pl? Pl plm pllluuuuum?"




"What did Casey tell them?" gasped Nathaniel.
"Plum plm Pllum plum plum?" plluum Pllluuuum.




Obadiah hunched his shoulders.
Plluuum plluuum plm pllluuuum.




"Enough to warrant a bullet through your head, Nat. Cheerful, isn't it?
"Plllum pl pllllum p pluuum pllllum plum plum, Plm. Plluuuum, plm'p pl?

But we'll fool them, Nat, we'll fool them! You shall board your ship and
Plm pl'pl plum plum, Plm, pl'pl plum plum! Plm pluum pllum plum plum plm

hurry away with the package, and then you shall make love to Strang's
pllum plum plum plm pllllum, plm plum plm pluum plum plum pl Plluum'p

wife--_for she will go with you!_"
plum--plum plm plum pl plum plm!p"




He stopped to enjoy the amazement that was written in every lineament of
Pl pllllum pl pllum plm pluuuuuum plum plm pluuuum pl pluum pllllluum pl

the other's face. The red blood surged into Nathaniel's neck and
plm pluum'p plum. Plm plm pllum plllum plum Plllluuum'p plum plm

deepened on his bronze cheeks. Slowly the reaction came. When he spoke
pllluuum pl plm pluuum plluum. Plluum plm pllluuum plum. Plum pl pllum

there was an uneasy gleam in his eyes and his voice was as hard as
pluum plm pl plllum pluum pl plm plum plm plm pluum plm pl plum pl

steel.
pluum.




"She will go with me, Councilor! And why?"
"Plm plum pl plum pl, Pllllluum! Plm plm?"




Obadiah had laughed softly as he watched the change. Suddenly he jerked
Pluuuum plm pllluum pluuum pl pl plluuum plm pluuum. Plllllum pl plllum

himself erect.
pllllum pllum.




"Sh-h-h!" he whispered. "Keep cool, Nat! Don't show any excitement or
"Pl-p-p!" pl pllluuuum. "Plum plum, Plm! Plm'p plum plm plllluuuum pl

fear. Here comes the man who is to kill you!"
plum. Plum pluum plm plm plm pl pl plum plm!"




He made no move save with his eyes.
Pl plum pl plum plum plum plm plum.




"He is coming to speak with me and to get a good look at you," he added
"Pl pl plllum pl pllum plum pl plm pl plm p plum plum pl plm," pl pluum

in excited haste. "Appear friendly. Agree with what I say. He is the
pl pluuuum pluum. "Plllum plllluum. Pllum plum plum P plm. Pl pl plm

chief of sheriffs, the king's murderer--Arbor Croche!"
pluum pl plllllum, plm plum'p plluuuum--Pllum Pluuum!"




He turned as if he had just seen the approaching figure. And he
Pl pluuum pl pl pl plm plum plum plm plllluuuuum pluuum. Plm pl

whispered softly, "Winnsome's father!"
plluuuuum plllum, "Pluuuuum'p pluuum!"




Arbor Croche! Nathaniel gave an involuntary shudder as he turned with
Pllum Plllum! Plluuuuum plum pl pllluuuuuum pluuuum pl pl plluum plum

Obadiah. Croche, chief of sheriffs, scourge of the mainland--the Attila
Pllluum. Plluum, pluum pl plllluum, pllllum pl plm plllluum--plm Plluum

of the Mormon kingdom, whose very name caused the women of the shores to
pl plm Plllum plluuum, pllum plum plum plluum plm pluum pl plm plllum pl

turn white and on whose head the men had secretly set a price in gold!
plum pluum plm pl pllum plum plm plm plm plllluum plm p pluum pl plum!

Without knowing it his hand went under his coat. Obadiah saw the
Plluuum pllllum pl plm plum plum pllum plm plum. Pllluum plm plm

movement and as he advanced to meet the officer of the king he jerked
pluuuuum plm pl pl plllluum pl plum plm plluuum pl plm plum pl plllum

the arm back fiercely. Half a dozen paces away the chief of sheriffs
plm plm plum pllluuum. Plum p pllum pluum plum plm pllum pl pluuuuum

paused and bowed low. But the councilor stood erect, as he had stood
plluum plm pluum plm. Plm plm pluuuuuum pllum pllum, pl pl plm pllum

before the king, smiling and nodding his head.
pluuum plm plum, pllllum plm pluuuum plm plum.




"Ah, Croche," he greeted, "good morning!"
"Pl, Pluuum," pl pllluum, "plum pllluum!"




"Good morning, Councilor!"
"Plum pllllum, Pllluuuum!"




"Sheriff, I would have you meet Captain Nathaniel Plum, master of the
"Pllluum, P pluum plum plm plum Pllllum Plllluuum Plum, plluum pl plm

sloop _Typhoon_. Captain Plum this is His Majesty's officer, Arbor
pluum pLlllllum. Pluuuum Plum plum pl Plm Pllluum'p plluuum, Pluum

Croche!"
Plluum!"




The two men advanced and shook hands. Nathaniel stood half a head above
Plm plm plm pllluuum plm pluum pllum. Plluuuuum pllum plum p plum pllum

the sheriff, who, like his master, the king, was short and of massive
plm plluuum, plm, plum plm pluuum, plm plum, plm pluum plm pl pluuuum

build, though a much younger man. He was a dark lowering hulk of a
pluum, pluuum p plum plluuum plm. Pl plm p plum plllluum plum pl p

creature, with black eyes, black hair, and a hand-clasp that showed him
plllluum, plum pluum plum, pllum plum, plm p plum-pluum plum plllum plm

possessed of great strength.
plllluuum pl pluum plluuuum.




"You are a stranger, Captain Plum?"
"Plm plm p pllluuum, Pluuuum Plum?"




The councilor replied quickly.
Plm pluuuuuum plluuum pllluum.




"He has never been at St. James before, sheriff. I have invited him to
"Pl plm pluum plum pl Pl. Pluum plllum, pllluum. P plum pllluum plm pl

stay over to see the whipping. By the way--" he shot a suggestive look
plum plum pl plm plm plluuuum. Pl plm plm--" pl plum p plluuuuuum plum

at the Officer. "By the way, Croche, I want you to see him safely aboard
pl plm Plluuum. "Pl plm plm, Plluum, P plum plm pl plm plm pluuum plluum

his sloop to-night. His ship is at the lower end of the island, and if
plm pllum pl-pluum. Plm plum pl pl plm pllum plm pl plm plluum, plm pl

you will detail a couple of men just before dusk--an escort, you know--"
plm plum pluuum p plluum pl plm plum pluuum plum--pl pluuum, plm plum--"




Nathaniel felt a curious thrill creep up his spine at the satisfaction
Pllluuuum plum p pllluum pluuum pllum pl plm pllum pl plm pllllluuuuum

which betrayed itself in the officer's black face.
pllum plllluum pluuum pl plm pluuuum'p pluum plum.




"It will give me great pleasure, Councilor," he interrupted. "I shall
"Pl plum plum pl pllum plllluum, Plluuuuum," pl pluuuuuuuum. "P pllum

escort you myself if you will allow me, Captain Plum!"
plluum plm plluum pl plm plum pllum pl, Pluuuum Plum!"




"Thank you," said Nathaniel.
"Pluum plm," plum Pllllluum.




"Captain Plum is to remain with me throughout the day," added Obadiah.
"Plluuum Plum pl pl plllum plum pl plllluuuum plm plm," pluum Plluuum.

"Come at seven--to my place. Ah, I see that people are assembling near
"Plum pl pllum--pl pl pluum. Pl, P plm plum plllum plm plllluuuum plum

the jail!"
plm plum!"




"We have changed our plans somewhat, Councilor." The officer turned to
"Pl plum pllluum plm pllum pllluuum, Plluuuuum." Plm pluuuum plllum pl

Nathaniel. "You will see the whipping within half an hour, Captain
Pllllllum. "Plm plum plm plm plluuuum plluum plum pl plum, Pllllum

Plum." He turned away with another bow to the councilor and hastened in
Plum." Pl plluum plum plum pluuuum plm pl plm pluuuuuum plm pllluuum pl

the direction of Strang's office.
plm pluuuuuum pl Plluum'p plluum.




"So that is the gentleman who thinks he is going to put a bullet through
"Pl plum pl plm pllllllum plm plluum pl pl pllum pl plm p pluuum plluuum

me!" exclaimed Nathaniel when the officer had gone beyond hearing. He
pl!" pllluuuum Pllllluum plum plm pllluum plm plum plluum pluuuum. Pl

laughed, and there was a kind of wild expectant joy in his voice.
plluuum, plm pluum plm p plum pl plum plllluuum plm pl plm pllum.

"Obadiah, can you not make arrangements for him to go with me alone?"
"Pluuuum, plm plm plm plum plllllllllum plm plm pl pl plum pl pluum?"




"He will not go with you at all, Nat," gloated the old man. "Ho, ho, we
"Pl plum plm pl plum plm pl plm, Plm," pllllum plm plm plm. "Pl, pl, pl

are playing at his own game--treachery. When he calls at my place you
plm pllllum pl plm plm plum--pllllluum. Plum pl pluum pl pl pluum plm

will be aboard ship."
plum pl plllum plum."




"But I should like to have a talk with him--alone, and in the woods.
"Plm P pluuum plum pl plum p plum plum plm--pluum, plm pl plm pluum.

God--I know a man at Grand Traverse Bay whose wife and daughter--"
Plm--P plum p plm pl Pluum Plllllum Plm pluum plum plm pluuuuum--"




"Sh-h-h-h!" interrupted the councilor. "Would you kill little Winnsome's
"Pl-p-p-p!" pluuuuuuuum plm pllllluum. "Pllum plm plum plluum Plllluum'p

father?"
plluum?"




"Her father? That animal! That murderer! Is it true?"
"Plm plluum? Plum pluuum! Plum plllluum! Pl pl plum?"




"But you should have seen her mother, Nat, you should have seen her
"Plm plm plllum plum plum plm pluuum, Plm, plm plllum plum plum plm

mother!" The old man twisted his hands, like a miser ravished by the
plllum!" Plm plm plm pluuuum plm pluum, plum p pluum pluuuuum pl plm

sight of gold. "She was beautiful--as beautiful as a wild flower, and
pluum pl plum. "Plm plm pluuuuuum--pl pluuuuuum pl p plum plllum, plm

she killed herself three years ago to save the birth of another child
plm plllum pllllum pluum pllum plm pl plum plm pluum pl pllluum pluum

into this hell. Little Winn is like her mother, Nat."
plum plum plum. Pluuum Plum pl plum plm pluuum, Plm."




"And she lives with him?"
"Plm plm pllum plum plm?"




"Er, yes--and guarded, oh, so carefully guarded by Strang, Nat! Yes, I
"Pl, plm--plm pllllum, pl, pl pllluuuum pllllum pl Plllum, Plm! Plm, P

guess that some day she will be a queen."
pluum plum plum plm plm plum pl p pluum."




"Great God!" cried the young man. "And you--you live in this cesspool of
"Pluum Plm!" pluum plm pluum plm. "Plm plm--plm plum pl plum plluuuum pl

sin and still believe in a Heaven?"
plm plm pllum pllllum pl p Plluum?"




"Yes, I believe in a Heaven. And my reward there shall be great. Ho, ho,
"Plm, P pllllum pl p Plllum. Plm pl plluum pluum pllum pl pluum. Pl, pl,

I am taking no middle road, Nat!"
P pl plluum pl pluuum plum, Plm!"




They had passed in a semicircle beyond the temple and now approached a
Plum plm plluum pl p plllllluum plllum plm plllum plm plm pluuuuuuum p

squat building constructed of logs, which Obadiah had pointed out as the
pluum plllluum pllllllllum pl plum, pluum Plluuum plm plluuum plm pl plm

jail. A glance satisfied Nathaniel that it was so situated that an
plum. P pluuum pllllllum Pluuuuuum plum pl plm pl plllluum plum pl

admirable view of the proceedings could be obtained from the rear of the
plluuuuum plum pl plm plllluuuuum pluum pl plluuuum plum plm plum pl plm

structure in which Strang had his office. Several score of people had
pllluuuum pl pluum Pluuum plm plm plllum. Pllluum pluum pl pluuum plm

already assembled about the prison and stood chatting with that tense
pllluum pllllllum pllum plm plluum plm pluum pllluuum plum plum pllum

interest and anticipation with which the mob always awaits public
plluuuum plm plllluuuuuum plum pluum plm plm plllum plllum plluum

infliction of the law's penalties. A third of them were women. As
plluuuuuum pl plm plm'p pluuuuuum. P pluum pl plum plum pluum. Pl

Nathaniel had previously noted, the feminine part of the Mormon
Pluuuuuum plm plllluuuum pluum, plm pluuuuum plum pl plm Plllum

population wore their hair either in braids down their backs or in thick
plllluuuum plum pluum plum plllum pl plluum plum pluum pluum pl pl pluum

curls flowing over their shoulders and with the exception of three or
pllum pllllum plum pluum pluuuuuum plm plum plm plllluuum pl pluum pl

four were attired in skirts that just concealed their knees. Obadiah
plum plum pllllum pl plllum plum plum plluuuuum pllum pllum. Plluuum

halted his companion close to a group of half a dozen of these women and
plluum plm pllllllum pllum pl p pluum pl plum p pluum pl pllum pluum plm

nudged him slyly.
plluum plm pluum.




"Pretty sight, eh, Nat?" he chuckled. "Ah, the king has a wonderful eye
"Plluum pllum, pl, Plm?" pl plllluum. "Pl, plm plum plm p pllllllum plm

for beauty, Nat--wonderful eye! He orders that no skirt shall fall below
plm pluuum, Plm--pllllluum plm! Pl plllum plum pl pluum pluum plum pllum

the female knee. Ho, ho, if he dared, if he _quite_ dared, Nat!"
plm plllum plum. Pl, pl, pl pl pluum, pl pl plluuum pllum, Plm!"




He nudged Nathaniel again with such enthusiasm that the latter jumped as
Pl plllum Plllluuum pluum plum plum plllllllum plum plm plluum plllum pl

though a knife had been thrust between his ribs.
plluum p pllum plm plum pluuum plluuum plm plum.




"By George, I admire his taste!" he laughed. The women caught him
"Pl Plllum, P pluuum plm pllum!" pl plluuum. Plm pllum plluum plm

staring at them, and one, who was the youngest and prettiest of the lot,
pllluum pl plum, plm plm, plm plm plm pluuuuum plm pllllllum pl plm plm,

smiled invitingly.
plllum pluuuuuuum.




"Tush--the Jezebel!" snapped Obadiah, catching the look. "That's her
"Plum--plm Plluuum!" pluuuum Pllluum, pllluuum plm plum. "Plum'p plm

child playing just beyond."
pllum pllllum plum pluuum."




The young woman tossed her head and her white teeth gleamed in a laugh,
Plm pluum pllum plluum plm plum plm plm pluum pluum plluuum pl p pluum,

as though she had overheard the old councilor's words.
pl plluum plm plm pllllluum plm plm pllluuuum'p pllum.




"See her twist her hair," he snarled venomously as the young woman,
"Plm plm pllum plm plum," pl pllluum pllllluuum pl plm pllum pllum,

still boldly eying Nathaniel, played with the luxuriant curls that
pluum plllum pluum Pllllllum, pluuum plum plm plllluuum pluum plum

glistened in the sun upon her breast. "Ezra Wilton is so fond of her
pllllluum pl plm plm plum plm plllum. "Plum Pluuum pl pl plum pl plm

that he will take no other wife. Ugh, Strang is a fool!"
plum pl plum plum pl pllum plum. Plm, Plluum pl p plum!"




Nathaniel turned away from the smiling eyes with a shrug.
Pluuuuuum plllum plum plum plm pluuuum plum plum p pluum.




"Why?"
"Plm?"




"To tell our women that it helps to save their souls to wear short
"Pl plum plm pllum plum pl pluum pl plum pluum pluum pl plum pluum

skirts and let their hair hang down. For every soul of a woman that it
plluum plm plm pllum plum plum plum. Plm pluum plum pl p pllum plum pl

saves it sends two men on the road to hell!"
pllum pl pllum plm plm pl plm plum pl plum!"




So intense was the old man's displeasure and so ludicrous the twisting
Pl pllllum plm plm plm plm'p pluuuuuuuum plm pl pllllllum plm pluuuuum

contortions of his face that Nathaniel could hardly restrain himself
plllluuuuum pl plm plum plum Plllluuum pluum plllum plllluum pllllum

from bursting into a roar of laughter. Obadiah perceived his inclination
plum plluuuum plum p plum pl plluuuum. Pllllum pllluuuum plm plllllluuum

and with an angry bob of his head led the way through to the inner edge
plm plum pl pllum plm pl plm plum plm plm plm pllllum pl plm pllum plum

of the waiting circle of men. Within this circle, in a small open space,
pl plm plluuum plluum pl plm. Pluuum plum plllum, pl p pllum plum pllum,

was a short post with straps attached to an arm nailed across it, and
plm p pllum plum plum plllum plllluum pl pl plm plllum pluuum pl, plm

leaning upon this post in an attitude of one who possesses a most
pluuuum plum plum plum pl pl pllluuum pl plm plm pluuuuuum p plum

distinguished office was a young man with a three thonged whip in his
plllllluuuuum pluuum plm p pluum plm plum p pluum pluuuum plum pl plm

hand. An ominous silence pervaded the circle, with the exception of the
plum. Pl pllluum plluuum plluuuum plm plllum, plum plm pluuuuuum pl plm

hushed whispering of a number of women who had forced themselves into
pluuum pluuuuuuum pl p plllum pl pllum plm plm pluuum pllllluuum plum

the line of spectators, bent upon witnessing the sight of blood as well
plm plum pl plllllluum, plum plum pluuuuuuum plm pluum pl pluum pl plum

as hearing the sound of lashes. Nathaniel noticed that most of the women
pl pluuuum plm pluum pl plllum. Pllllluum pllllum plum plum pl plm pluum

hung in frightened curiosity beyond the men.
plum pl plllllluum plllluuum pluuum plm plm.




"That is MacDougall with the lash--official whipper and caretaker of the
"Plum pl PllLllllum plum plm plum--pluuuuum pluuuum plm pllllllum pl plm

slave hounds," explained Obadiah in a whisper.
pluum pluuum," pluuuuuum Pllluum pl p plluuum.




Nathaniel gave a start of horror.
Pllluuuum plum p pllum pl plluum.




"Slave hounds!" he breathed.
"Pllum plllum!" pl plllluum.




The councilor grinned and twisted his hands, in enjoyment of his
Plm plluuuuum pluuuum plm pluuuum plm pluum, pl plluuuuum pl plm

companion's surprise.
plluuuuum'p pllluuum.




"We have the finest pack of bloodhounds north of Louisiana," he
"Pl plum plm pluuum plum pl plluuuuuuum pluum pl Pllllllum," pl

continued, so low that only Nathaniel could hear. "See! Isn't the earth
pllllllum, pl plm plum plum Plllluuum pllum plum. "Plm! Plm'p plm pluum

worn smooth and hard about that post?"
plum plluum plm plum pluum plum plum?"




Nathaniel looked and his blood grew hot.
Pluuuuuum plllum plm plm pluum plum plm.




"I have seen such things in the South," he said. "But not--for white
"P plum plum plum pluuum pl plm Pllum," pl plum. "Plm plm--plm pluum

men!"
plm!"




The councilor caught him by the arm.
Plm pllluuuum plluum plm pl plm plm.




"They are coming!"
"Plum plm plluum!"




In the direction of the jail the crowd was separating. Men crushed back
Pl plm pllllluum pl plm plum plm pllum plm pllluuuuum. Plm pllluum plum

on each side, forming a narrow aisle, even the whispering of the women
pl plum plum, pllluum p plluum pllum, plum plm plluuuuuum pl plm pluum

ceased. A moment later three men appeared in the opening between the
plllum. P plllum pllum pluum plm plllluum pl plm plluuum pllllum plm

spectators. One of these, who walked between the other two, was stripped
pllllluuum. Plm pl pluum, plm plluum plluuum plm pluum plm, plm pllluuum

to the waist. About each of his naked wrists was tied a leather thong
pl plm pllum. Pllum plum pl plm pluum plluum plm plum p pllluum pllum

and these thongs were held by the man's guards. The prisoner's face was
plm pluum plluum plum plum pl plm plm'p plllum. Plm pllluuum'p plum plm

livid; his hands were red with blood that dripped from his lacerated
pluum; plm pluum plum plm plum pluum plum pluuuum plum plm pllllluum

wrists; his eyes glared malignantly and his heaving chest showed that
pluuum; plm plum plluum plllluuuuum plm plm plluuum pllum plluum plum

he had not been brought from the log prison without a struggle.
pl plm plm plum plluuum plum plm plm plluum pllluum p plllllum.




"Ah, it's Wittle first!" breathed the councilor. "It's he who said his
"Pl, pl'p Pluuum pllum!" pllluuum plm plllluuum. "Pl'p pl plm plum plm

wife should not wear short skirts."
plum plllum plm plum pllum plluum."




At the edge of the circle the prisoner hesitated and the muscles in his
Pl plm plum pl plm pluuum plm plllluum plluuuuum plm plm pluuuum pl plm

arms and chest grew rigid. Those of the crowd nearest to him drew back.
plum plm pluum plum pllum. Pllum pl plm pluum plluuum pl plm plum plum.

Then a sudden change swept over the man's features and he walked quickly
Plum p plllum plllum pluum plum plm plm'p plllllum plm pl pluuum pluuuum

to the stake and kneeled before it. The thongs about his wrists were
pl plm pllum plm pluuuum plllum pl. Plm plluum pluum plm plluum plum

tied to the straps of the cross-piece and the whipper took his position.
plum pl plm plluum pl plm pllum-pllum plm plm pluuuum plum plm plllllum.

As the first lash fell, a cry burst from the lips of the victim. When
Pl plm pluum plum plum, p plm pluum plum plm plum pl plm plllum. Plum

the whip descended again he was silent. A curious sensation of sickness
plm plum pllllllum pluum pl plm plluum. P pllluum pllllllum pl pluuuuum

crept over Nathaniel as he saw the red gashes thicken on the white
pluum plum Pllluuuum pl pl plm plm plm plluum pllluum pl plm pluum

flesh. Five times--six times--seven times the whip rose and fell and he
pllum. Plum pluum--plm pllum--pluum pllum plm plum plum plm plum plm pl

could see the blood starting. In horror he turned his eyes away. Behind
pllum plm plm pluum plllllum. Pl plllum pl pluuum plm plum plum. Pluuum

him a man grinned at the whiteness of his face and the involuntary
plm p plm pllluum pl plm pllluuuum pl plm plum plm plm plluuuuuuum

trembling of his lips. Again and again he heard the lash fall upon the
pllllllum pl plm plum. Pluum plm pluum pl pluum plm plum plum plum plm

naked back. From near him there came the sobbing moan of a woman. A
pluum plum. Plum plum plm pllum plum plm pluuuum plum pl p pllum. P

subdued movement, a sound as of murmuring wordless voices swept through
pluuuum plllllum, p pllum pl pl pllllllum plllllum plluum pluum plluuum

the throng. A steady glitter filled the eyes of the man who had laughed
plm pluuum. P plluum pluuuum plluum plm plum pl plm plm plm plm pluuuum

at him--and he turned again to the stake. The man's back was dripping
pl plm--plm pl plllum pllum pl plm pluum. Plm plm'p plum plm plluuuum

blood. Great red seams lay upon his shoulders and a single lash had cut
pllum. Pluum plm pllum plm plum plm pllllllum plm p pluuum plum plm plm

his bowed neck. Another stroke, more fierce than the others, and
plm pluum plum. Pllllum pluuum, plum plllum plum plm pluuum, plm

MacDougall turned away from the figure at the post, breathing hard. The
PllLllllum plluum plum plum plm plluum pl plm plum, pluuuuuum plum. Plm

guards unfastened the victim's wrist-thongs and the man staggered to his
plluum plllllluum plm pluuum'p pluum-plllum plm plm plm pllllllum pl plm

feet. As he swayed down through the path that opened for him his crimson
plum. Pl pl pluuum plum pllllum plm plum plum plluum plm plm plm pllllum

back shone in the sun.
plum pluum pl plm plm.




"Great God!" gasped Nathaniel.
"Pluum Plm!" pluuum Pllllllum.




He turned to Obadiah and was startled by the appearance of the old man.
Pl pluuum pl Plluuum plm plm pllluuum pl plm plllllllum pl plm plm plm.

The councilor's face was ghastly. His mouth twitched and his body
Plm pluuuuuum'p plum plm pllllum. Plm pllum plluuuum plm plm plum

trembled. Nathaniel took his arm sympathetically.
plllllum. Plllluuum plum plm plm pllllllllllllum.




"Hadn't we better go, Dad?" he whispered.
"Plum'p pl plluum pl, Plm?" pl pllllllum.




"No--no--no--not yet, Nat. It's--it's--Neil now and I must see how the
"Pl--pl--pl--plm plm, Plm. Pl'p--pl'p--Plum plm plm P plum plm plm plm

boy--stands it!"
plm--plllum pl!"




It was but a short time before the guards returned. This time their
Pl plm plm p pluum plum pluuum plm pluuum plluuuum. Plum plum pluum

prisoner walked free and erect. The thongs dangled from his wrists and
pluuuuum pluuum plum plm pluum. Plm plluum pllllum plum plm plluum plm

he was a pace ahead of the two men who accompanied him. He was a young
pl plm p plum pluum pl plm plm plm plm plllluuuuum plm. Pl plm p pllum

man. Nathaniel judged his age at twenty-five. He was a striking contrast
plm. Pllluuuum plluum plm plm pl pluuum-plum. Pl plm p plllluum pllluuum

to the man who had suffered first at the post. His face instead of
pl plm plm plm plm plllluum pllum pl plm plum. Plm plum pllllum pl

betraying the former's pallor was flushed with excitement; his head was
plllluuum plm plluum'p plluum plm pluuuum plum pllluuuuum; plm plum plm

held high; not a sign of fear or hesitation shone in his eyes. As he
plum plum; plm p plum pl plum pl pluuuuuuum pllum pl plm plum. Pl pl

glanced quickly around the circle of faces the flush grew deeper in his
pllluum plluuum plllum plm plluum pl pllum plm pllum plum plluum pl plm

cheeks. He nodded and smiled at MacDougall and in that nod and smile
pluuum. Pl pluuum plm plllum pl PllLuuuuum plm pl plum plm plm pluum

there was a meaning that sent a shiver to the whip-master's heart. Then
pluum plm p pllllum plum plum p plluum pl plm plum-plluum'p pluum. Plum

his eyes fell upon Obadiah and Nathaniel. He saw the councilor's hand
plm plum plum plum Plluuum plm Pllllllum. Pl plm plm pluuuuuum'p plum

resting upon the young captain's arm and a flash of understanding passed
pllllum plum plm pluum pllllum'p plm plm p pluum pl plluuuuuuuuum pluuum

over his face. For an instant the eyes of the two young men met. The man
plum plm plum. Plm pl pluuuum plm plum pl plm plm pluum plm plm. Plm plm

at the post took half a step forward. His lips moved as if he was on the
pl plm plum plum plum p plum pluuuum. Plm plum pllum pl pl pl plm pl plm

point of speaking, the defiant smile went out of his face, the flush
pluum pl plluuuum, plm plluuum pluum plum plm pl plm plum, plm pllum

faded in his cheeks. Then he turned quickly and held out his hands to
pllum pl plm plllum. Plum pl pluuum plluuum plm plum plm plm pluum pl

the guards.
plm plllum.




As the young man kneeled before the post Nathaniel heard a smothered sob
Pl plm pluum plm pluuuum pluuum plm plum Pllluuuum pllum p pllllluum plm

at his side which he knew came from Obadiah.
pl plm plum pllum pl plum plum plum Pllllum.




"Come, Dad," he said softly. "I can't stand this. Let's get away!"
"Plum, Plm," pl plum plluum. "P plm'p pllum plum. Plm'p plm plum!"




He shoved the councilor back. The lash whistled through the air behind
Pl plluum plm pluuuuuum plum. Plm plum plllluum plluuum plm plm plluum

him. As it fell there came a piercing cry. It was a woman's voice, and
plm. Pl pl plum pllum plum p plllllum plm. Pl plm p pllum'p pllum, plm

with a snarl like that of a tortured animal the old man struck down
plum p pllum plum plum pl p pluuuuum pluuum plm plm plm plllum plum

Nathaniel's arm and clawed his way back to the edge of the line. On the
Pllllllum'p plm plm pluuum plm plm plum pl plm plum pl plm plum. Pl plm

opposite side there was a surging in the crowd and as MacDougall raised
pluuuuum plum pluum plm p pllluum pl plm pllum plm pl PllLllluum plluum

his whip a woman burst through.
plm plum p pllum pllum pllllum.




"My God!" cried Nathaniel, "it's--"
"Pl Plm!" pluum Plllluuum, "pl'p--"




He left the rest of the words unspoken. His veins leaped with fire. A
Pl plum plm plum pl plm pluum pllluuum. Plm pllum plllum plum plum. P

single sweep of his powerful arms and he had forced himself through the
plluum pluum pl plm plluuuum plum plm pl plm plluum pllluum plluuum plm

innermost line of spectators. Within a dozen feet of him stood Strang's
pllluuuum plum pl pllluuuuum. Pluuum p pluum plum pl plm pllum Plluum'p

wife, her beautiful hair disheveled, her face deadly white, her bosom
plum, plm pllllllum plum plllllluum, plm plum pluuum pluum, plm pluum

heaving as if she had been running. In a moment her eyes had taken in
pluuuum pl pl plm plm plum pluuuum. Pl p pluuum plm plum plm pluum pl

the situation--the man at the stake, the upraised lash--and Nathaniel.
plm pllllllum--plm plm pl plm pllum, plm plllluum plum--plm Pllllllum.

With a sobbing, breathless cry, she flung herself in front of MacDougall
Plum p pluuuum, plllllllum plm, plm pluum pluuuum pl pluum pl PllLllluum

and threw her arms around the kneeling man, her hair covering him in a
plm pluum plm plum plllum plm pluuuuum plm, plm plum plluuuum plm pl p

glistening veil. For an instant her eyes were raised to Nathaniel and he
pllllluuum plum. Plm pl pllluum plm plum plum pluuum pl Pllllllum plm pl

saw in them that same agonized appeal that had called to him through the
plm pl plum plum plum pllluuum plllum plum plm plllum pl plm pllllum plm

king's window. The striking muscles of his arms tightened like steel.
plum'p plluum. Plm pluuuuum pllllum pl plm plum plllluuum plum pllum.

One of the guards sprang forward and caught the girl roughly by the arm
Plm pl plm plluum pluuum pllllum plm plluum plm plum pluuuum pl plm plm

and attempted to drag her away. In his excitement he pulled her head
plm pllllllum pl plum plm plum. Pl plm plllllllum pl pluuum plm plum

back and her hair trailed in the dirt. The sight was maddening. From
plum plm plm plum pllllum pl plm plum. Plm pluum plm pluuuuuum. Plum

Nathaniel's throat there came a fierce cry and in a single leap he had
Pluuuuuum'p pluuum pllum plum p plluum plm plm pl p plllum plum pl plm

cleared the distance to the guard and had driven his fist against the
pllluum plm plllllum pl plm pllum plm plm plllum plm plum plluuum plm

officer's head with the sickening force of a sledge-hammer. The man fell
plluuum'p plum plum plm plllluuum pllum pl p plluum-plluum. Plm plm plum

without a groan. In another flash he had drawn his knife and severed the
pluuuum p pllum. Pl pllllum pllum pl plm pluum plm pluum plm pllllum plm

thongs that held the man at the stake. For a moment his face was very
plllum plum plum plm plm pl plm pllum. Plm p plluum plm plum plm plum

near the girl's and he saw her lips form the glad cry which he did not
plum plm plum'p plm pl plm plm plum plum plm plum plm pllum pl plm plm

wait to hear.
plum pl plum.




He turned like an enraged beast toward the circle of dumfounded
Pl plllum plum pl pllllum pllum plluum plm plllum pl plllllluum

spectators and launched himself at the second guard. From behind him
plllllllum plm pluuuuum pllllum pl plm plluum pluum. Plum plllum plm

there sounded a shout and he caught the gleam of naked shoulders as the
pllum pllllum p pllum plm pl plllum plm pluum pl pllum plllluuum pl plm

man who had been at the stake rushed to his side. Together they tore
plm plm plm plum pl plm pllum plllum pl plm plum. Plllluum plum plum

through the narrow rim of the crowd, striking at the faces which
pllluum plm pluuum plm pl plm pllum, pluuuuum pl plm pluum pllum

appeared before them, their terrific blows driving men right and left.
plllllum pluuum plum, pluum plluuuum pluum pllluum plm pllum plm plum.




"This way, Neil!" shouted Nathaniel. "This way--to the ship!"
"Plum plm, Plum!" plluuum Pllluuuum. "Plum plm--pl plm plum!"




They raced up the slope that led from the town to the forest. Even the
Plum pllum pl plm pllum plum plm plum plm plum pl plm plllum. Plum plm

king's officer, palsied by the suddenness of the attack, had not
plum'p pllluum, pluuuum pl plm pllllluuum pl plm plluum, plm plm

followed. From a screened window in the king's building two men had
plllllum. Plum p plllllum plluum pl plm plum'p pllluuum plm plm plm

witnessed the exciting scene near the jail. One of these men was Strang.
pllluuuum plm plluuuum pllum plum plm plum. Plm pl pllum plm plm Plllum.

The other was Arbor Croche. At another window a few feet away, hidden
Plm pllum plm Pllum Plllum. Pl pllllum pluuum p plm plum plum, pluuum

from their eyes by a high desk and masses of papers and books, Winnsome
plum pllum plum pl p plum plum plm pluuum pl plluum plm pllum, Pllluuum

Croche was crumpled up on the floor hardly daring to breathe through
Plluum plm plluuuum pl pl plm pluum plllum plllum pl pllluum pllllum

fear of betraying her presence. From these windows they had seen the
plum pl plluuuuum plm plllluum. Plum pllum pllllum plum plm plum plm

girl run from behind the jail; they had watched her struggle through the
plum plm plum plllum plm plum; plum plm plluuum plm plllllum pllllum plm

line of spectators, saw Nathaniel leap forward--saw the quick blow, the
plum pl pluuuuuuum, plm Pllllluum plum pllllum--plm plm pluum plum, plm

gleaming knife, and the escape. So suddenly had it all occurred that not
pllluuum pluum, plm plm pluuum. Pl plllllum plm pl plm pllluuum plum plm

a sound escaped the two astonished men. But as Nathaniel and Neil burst
p pluum pllluum plm plm pluuuuuuum plm. Plm pl Plllluuum plm Plum pllum

through the crowd and sped toward the forest Strang's great voice
pllllum plm pllum plm plum pluuum plm plllum Plluum'p pllum pluum

boomed forth like the rumble of a gun.
plllum pluum plum plm plllum pl p plm.




"Arbor Croche, overtake those men--and kill them!"
"Pluum Plluum, pluuuuum pluum plm--plm plum plum!"




With a wild curse the chief of sheriffs dashed down the stairway and as
Plum p plum pllum plm pluum pl pllluuum pluuum plum plm pluuuuum plm pl

she heard him go the terror of Winnsome's heart seemed to turn her blood
plm pllum plm pl plm pluuum pl Plllluum'p pluum plllum pl plum plm pluum

cold. She knew what that command meant. She knew that her father would
plum. Plm plum plum plum pllluum pllum. Plm plum plum plm plluum pllum

obey it. As the daughter of the chief of sheriffs more than one burning
plum pl. Pl plm pluuuuum pl plm pluum pl plluuuum plum plum plm pllluum

secret was hidden in her breast, more than one of those frightful
plluum plm plllum pl plm pluuum, plum plum plm pl pllum pllllllum

daggers that had pricked at the soul of her mother until they had
pllluum plum plm pllllum pl plm plum pl plm plluum pllum plum plm

murdered her. And the chief of them all was this: that to Arbor Croche
plluuuum plm. Plm plm pluum pl plum plm plm plum: plum pl Pluum Plllum

the words of Strang were the words of God and that if the prophet said
plm pllum pl Pluuum plum plm pllum pl Plm plm plum pl plm pllluum plum

kill, he would kill. For a full minute she crouched in her concealment,
plum, pl pluum plum. Plm p plum pluuum plm pluuuuum pl plm pllllluuuum,

stunned by the horror that had so quickly taken the place of the joy
plluuum pl plm pluuum plum plm pl plluuum pluum plm pllum pl plm plm

with which she had witnessed the escape. She heard Strang leave the
plum pluum plm plm pluuuuuum plm plllum. Plm pluum Plllum pluum plm

window, heard his heavy steps in the outer room, heard the door close,
pluuum, pluum plm pllum pllum pl plm pllum plum, pluum plm plum pluum,

and knew that he, too, was gone. She sprang to her feet and ran to the
plm plum plum pl, plm, plm plum. Plm pluuum pl plm plum plm plm pl plm

window at which the two men had stood. The chief of sheriffs was already
pluuum pl pllum plm plm plm plm pllum. Plm pluum pl pllluuum plm pllluum

at the jail. The crowd had begun to disperse. Men were swarming like
pl plm plum. Plm pllum plm pluum pl pluuuuum. Plm plum plllllum plum

ants up the long slope reaching to the forest. Three or four of the
plum pl plm plum pluum plllluum pl plm plluum. Pluum pl plum pl plm

leaders were running and she knew that they were hot in pursuit of the
pllllum plum pllluum plm plm plum plum plum plum plm pl plluuum pl plm

fugitives. Others were following more slowly and among these she saw
pllllllum. Plllum plum plllluuum plum pluuum plm pllum pluum plm plm

that there were women. As she looked there came a sound from the stair.
plum pllum plum pllum. Pl plm plllum pllum plum p pluum plum plm pluum.

She recognized the step. She recognized the voice that called her name a
Plm plllluuuum plm plum. Plm plllllluum plm pllum plum plllum plm plum p

moment later and with a despairing cry she turned with outstretched arms
pluuum pllum plm plum p plllllllum plm plm pluuum plum pllluuuuuuum plum

to greet the girl for whom Nathaniel had interrupted the king's
pl pluum plm plum plm plum Pllllluum plm pllluuuuuum plm plum'p

whipping.
plllllum.













CHAPTER V
PLLLUUM P




THE MYSTERY
PLM PLLLLUM







Hardly had Nathaniel fought his way through the thin crowd of startled
Plllum plm Plluuuuum pluuum plm plm plluuum plm plum pluum pl plluuuum

spectators about the whipping-post before the enormity of his offense in
pllllluuum pluum plm plllllum-plum plllum plm pllluuum pl plm plluuum pl

interrupting the king's justice dawned upon him. He was not sorry that
plllllluuuum plm plum'p pluuuum pluuum plum plm. Pl plm plm pluum plum

he had responded to the mute appeal of the girl who had entered so
pl plm pllllluum pl plm plum plllum pl plm plum plm plm pluuuum pl

strangely into his life. He rejoiced at the spirit that had moved him to
pluuuuuum plum plm plum. Pl plluuuum pl plm plluum plum plm pllum plm pl

action, that had fired his blood and put the strength of a giant in his
pluuum, plum plm pluum plm pllum plm plm plm plluuuum pl p pluum pl plm

arms; and his nerves tingled with an unreasoning joy that he had leaped
plum; plm plm pluuum pllllum plum pl pllllluuuum plm plum pl plm pluuum

all barriers which in cooler moments would have restrained him, and
plm plllllum pllum pl pluuum pllluum pllum plum pluuuuuuum plm, plm

which fixed in his excited brain only the memory of the beautiful face
pluum pllum pl plm pluuuum pllum plum plm plluum pl plm pluuuuuum plum

that had sought his own in those crucial moments of its suffering. The
plum plm plluum plm plm pl pllum pllluum pluuuum pl plm plluuuuum. Plm

girl had turned to him and to him alone among all those men. He had
plum plm plluum pl plm plm pl plm pllum pluum plm pllum plm. Pl plm

heard her voice, he had felt the soft sweep of her hair as he severed
pluum plm pllum, pl plm plum plm plum pllum pl plm plum pl pl pllllum

the prisoner's thongs, he had caught the flash of her eyes and the
plm plllllum'p plluum, pl plm plluum plm pluum pl plm plum plm plm

movement of her lips as he dashed himself into the crowd. And as he sped
plllllum pl plm plum pl pl plluum pluuuum plum plm pluum. Plm pl pl plum

swiftly up the slope he considered himself amply repaid for all that he
plluuum pl plm pluum pl plllluuuum pluuuum pllum plluum plm plm plum pl

had done. His blood was stirred as if by the fire of sharp wines; he was
plm plum. Plm pluum plm pllluum pl pl pl plm plum pl pluum pllum; pl plm

still in a tension of fighting excitement. Yet no sooner had he fought
pluum pl p pllluum pl plllllum plllllluum. Plm pl plluum plm pl plluum

himself clear of the mob than his better judgment leaped into the
plluuum pluum pl plm plm plum plm plllum plllluum plluum plum plm

ascendency. If danger had been lurking for him before it was doubly
plllllluum. Pl plluum plm plum plluuum plm plm pluuum pl plm pluuum

threatening now and he was sufficiently possessed of the common spirit
pluuuuuuuum plm plm pl plm plllllluuuum plllluuum pl plm plluum plluum

of self-preservation to exult at the speed with which he was enabled to
pl plum-plllllluuuum pl pluum pl plm pluum plum pluum pl plm pllluum pl

leave pursuit behind. A single glance over his shoulder assured him that
pllum plluuum pluuum. P plluum plllum plum plm plluuuum plluuum plm plum

the man whom he had saved from the prophet's wrath was close at his
plm plm plum pl plm pllum plum plm pluuuum'p pluum plm pluum pl plm

heels. His first impulse was to direct his flight toward Obadiah's
pluum. Plm pllum plluuum plm pl plllum plm pluuum plllum Pluuuum'p

cabin; his second to follow the path that led to his ship. At this hour
pluum; plm plluum pl pluuum plm plum plum plm pl plm plum. Pl plum plum

some of his men would surely be awaiting him in a small boat and once
plum pl plm plm pllum plluum pl pluuuuum plm pl p pllum plum plm plum

aboard the _Typhoon_ he could continue his campaign against the Mormon
pluuum plm pLlluuuum pl pllum plllllum plm plluuuum plluuum plm Pluuum

king with better chances of success than as a lone fugitive on the
plum plum plluum pllllum pl plluuum plum pl p plum pluuuuum pl plm

island. Besides, he knew what Casey would do at sundown.
plluum. Pllluum, pl plum plum Pllum pllum pl pl pllluum.




At the top of the slope he stopped and waited for the other to come up
Pl plm plm pl plm pluum pl pllllum plm pluuum plm plm pllum pl plum pl

to him.
pl plm.




"I've got a ship off there," he called, pointing inland. "Take a short
"P'pl plm p plum plm pluum," pl plluum, plllluum plluum. "Plum p pluum

cut for the point at the head of the island. There's a boat waiting for
plm plm plm pllum pl plm plum pl plm plllum. Pluum'p p plum pllluum plm

us!"
pl!"




Neil came up panting. He was breathing so hard that for a moment he
Plum plum pl pllluum. Pl plm pllllluum pl plum plum plm p pluuum pl

found it impossible to speak but in his eyes there was a look that told
pluum pl pllllluuum pl pluum plm pl plm plum pllum plm p plum plum plum

his unbounded gratitude. They were clear, fearless eyes, with the blue
plm pllllllum pllllllum. Plum plum pluum, pllluuum plum, plum plm plum

glint of steel in them and, as he held out his hands to Nathaniel, they
pluum pl pllum pl plum plm, pl pl plum plm plm pllum pl Plllluuum, plum

were luminous with the joy of his deliverance.
plum plluuuum plum plm plm pl plm plllluuuuum.




"Thank you, Captain Plum!"
"Pluum plm, Pllllum Plum!"




He spoke his companion's name with the assurance of one who had known
Pl pluum plm pluuuuuum'p plum plum plm plluuuuum pl plm plm plm pluum

it for a long time. "If they loose the dogs there will be no time for
pl plm p plum plum. "Pl plum pluum plm plum pluum plum pl pl plum plm

the ship," he added, with a suggestive hunch of his naked shoulders.
plm plum," pl pluum, plum p plllluuuum pluum pl plm pluum plllluuum.

"Follow me!"
"Plluum pl!"




There was no alarm in his voice and Nathaniel caught the flashing gleam
Pluum plm pl pluum pl plm pluum plm Pluuuuuum plluum plm pluuuuum pllum

of white teeth as Neil smiled grimly back at him, running in the lead.
pl pluum pluum pl Plum pluuum plluum plum pl plm, pllllum pl plm plum.

From the man's eyes the master of the _Typhoon_ had sized up his
Plum plm plm'p plum plm plluum pl plm pLluuuuum plm pllum pl plm

companion as a fighter. The smile--daring, confident, and yet signaling
pllllllum pl p pluuuum. Plm pluum--plllum, pllllllum, plm plm pllllllum

their danger--assured him that he was right, and he followed close
pllum plluum--pllluum plm plum pl plm pllum, plm pl plllluum pluum

behind without question. A dozen rods up the path Neil turned into a
pluuum pllllum plluuuum. P pluum plum pl plm plum Plum pluuum plum p

dense thicket of briars and underbrush and for ten minutes they plunged
pluum pllluum pl plllum plm plluuuuuum plm plm plm pllluum plum plluuum

through the pathless jungle. Now and then Nathaniel saw the three red
plluuum plm pluuuuum pluuum. Plm plm plum Plluuuuum plm plm pllum plm

stripes of the whipper's lash upon the bare shoulders of the man ahead
pllllum pl plm pluuuum'p plum plum plm plum pllluuuum pl plm plm pluum

and to these every step seemed to add new wounds made by the thorns. As
plm pl pllum pluum plum pluuum pl plm plm pluuum plum pl plm pluuum. Pl

they came out upon an old roadway the captain stripped off his coat and
plum plum plm plum pl plm plluuum plm plluuum pllluuum plm plm plum plm

Neil thrust himself into it as they ran.
Plum plluum pluuuum plum pl pl plum plm.




Even in these first minutes of their flight Nathaniel was thrilled by
Plum pl pluum pllum pllllum pl pluum plllum Pllllllum plm plllllum pl

another thought than that of the peril behind them. Whom had he saved?
pllluum plluuum plum plum pl plm pluum pluuum plum. Plum plm pl pllum?

Who was this clear-eyed young fellow for whom the girl had so openly
Plm plm plum pluum-plum pluum plllum plm plum plm plum plm pl plllum

sacrificed herself at the whipping-post, about whom she had thrown her
plllllluum pllllum pl plm plluuuum-plum, pluum plum plm plm pluuum plm

arms and covered with the protection of her glorious hair? With his joy
plum plm pluuuum plum plm pllluuuuum pl plm pluuuuum plum? Plum plm plm

at having served her there was mingled a chilling doubt as these
pl plluum pluuum plm pluum plm pluuuum p pluuuuum pllum pl pllum

questions formed themselves in his mind. Obadiah's vague suggestions,
plluuuuum plluum pllluuuuum pl plm plum. Pllllum'p pluum plluuuuuuum,

the scene in the king's room, the night visits of the girl to the
plm pllum pl plm plum'p plum, plm pllum pluuum pl plm plum pl plm

councilor's cabin--and last of all this incident at the jail flashed
pllllluum'p pllum--plm plum pl plm plum plllllum pl plm plum plluuum

upon him now with another meaning, with a significance that slowly
plum plm plm plum pllllum pllluum, plum p plllllllluum plum plluum

cooled the enthusiasm in his veins. He was sure that he was near the
pluuum plm pluuuuuuum pl plm pllum. Pl plm plum plum pl plm plum plm

solution of the mysterious events in which he had become involved, and
plluuuum pl plm plllllllum pluuum pl pllum pl plm pluuum plluuuum, plm

yet this knowledge brought with it something of apprehension, something
plm plum plluuuuum pluuuum plum pl pluuuuuum pl plluuuuuuuum, plluuuuum

which made him anticipate and yet dread the moment when the fugitive
pluum plum plm pllllluuum plm plm pluum plm pluuum plum plm plluuuum

ahead would stop in his flight, and he might ask him those questions
pluum pluum plum pl plm plluum, plm pl pluum plm plm pllum pllluuuum

which would at least relieve him of his burden of doubt. They had
pllum pllum pl pllum pllllum plm pl plm plllum pl pluum. Plum plm

traveled a mile through forest unbroken by path or road when Neil halted
plllllum p plum plluuum plluum pllluuum pl plum pl plum plum Plum plllum

on the edge of a little stream that ran into a swamp. Pointing into the
pl plm plum pl p plluum plllum plum plm plum p pluum. Plluuuum plum plm

tangled fen with a confident smile he plunged to his waist in the water
pllluum plm plum p plllluuum pllum pl pluuuum pl plm pllum pl plm pluum

and waded slowly through the slough into the gloom of the densest alder.
plm pluum plllum pllluum plm plluum plum plm pllum pl plm plluuum pluum.

A few minutes later he turned in to the shore and the soft bog gave
P plm pluuuum pluum pl pluuum pl pl plm pluum plm plm plum plm plum

place to firm ground. Before Nathaniel had cleared the stream he saw his
pluum pl plum pluuum. Pluuum Plluuuuum plm pluuuum plm pluuum pl plm plm

companion drop to his knees beside a fallen log and when he came up to
pllllllum plum pl plm pluum pluuum p plllum plm plm plum pl plum pl pl

him he was unwrapping a piece of canvas from about a gun. With a warning
plm pl plm plllllluum p pluum pl plllum plum pluum p plm. Plum p plluuum

gesture he rose to his feet and for twenty seconds the men stood and
pllluum pl plum pl plm plum plm plm pluuum pllllum plm plm pluum plm

listened. No sound came to them but the chirp of a startled squirrel and
plluuuum. Pl pllum plum pl plum plm plm pllum pl p plllllum plluuuum plm

the barking of a dog in the direction of St. James.
plm pluuuum pl p plm pl plm pllllllum pl Pl. Pluum.




"They haven't turned out the dogs yet," said Neil, holding a hand
"Plum pllum'p pluuum plm plm plum plm," plum Plum, pllluum p plum

against his heaving chest. "If they do they can't reach us through that
pllluum plm pllluum pllum. "Pl plum pl plum plm'p pluum pl pluuuum plum

slough." He leaned his rifle against the log and again thrusting an arm
plluum." Pl pluuum plm pluum pluuuum plm plm plm pllum pllllllum pl plm

into the place where it had been concealed drew forth a small box.
plum plm pluum pllum pl plm plum pllluuuum plum pluum p pluum plm.




"Powder and ball--and grub!" he laughed. "You see I am a sort of
"Plluum plm plum--plm plum!" pl pllluum. "Plm plm P pl p plum pl

revolutionist and have my hiding-places. To-morrow--I will be a martyr."
plllllluuuuum plm plum pl plluum-pluuum. Pl-plllum--P plum pl p pluuum."

He spoke as quietly as though his words but carried a careless jest.
Pl pllum pl pllllum pl pluuum plm pluum plm pllllum p plllluum plum.




"A martyr?" laughed Nathaniel, looking down into the smiling, sweating
"P pluuum?" pluuuum Pllluuuum, pluuuum plum plum plm pllllum, plllllum

face.
plum.




"Yes, to-morrow I shall kill Strang."
"Plm, pl-plluum P pllum plum Plllum."




There was no excitement in Neil's voice as he stood erect. The smile did
Pluum plm pl pluuuuuuum pl Plum'p pluum pl pl pllum pluum. Plm pllum plm

not leave his lips. But in his eyes there shone that which neither words
plm pllum plm plum. Plm pl plm plum pllum pllum plum pluum pluuuum pluum

nor smiling lips revealed, a reckless, blazing fury hidden deep in
plm pllllum plum pluuuuum, p pllluuum, plluuum plum plllum plum pl

them--so deep that Nathaniel stared to assure himself what it was. The
plum--pl plum plum Plllluuum pluuum pl pluuum plluuum plum pl plm. Plm

other saw the doubt in his face.
pllum plm plm pluum pl plm plum.




"To-morrow I shall kill Strang," he repeated. "I shall kill him with
"Pl-plluum P pluum plum Plluum," pl plllllum. "P pluum plum plm plum

this gun from under the window of his house through which you saw
plum plm plum pllum plm plluum pl plm pllum pluuuum pllum plm plm

Marion."
Plllum."




"Marion!" exclaimed Nathaniel. "Marion--" He leaned forward eagerly,
"Plluum!" pllluuuum Pllllllum. "Pluuum--" Pl plllum pllluum pllluum,

questioning. "Tell me--"
pllllllllum. "Plum pl--"




"My sister, Captain Plum!"
"Pl plluum, Pllluum Plum!"




It seemed to Nathaniel that every fiber in his body was stretched to the
Pl plllum pl Pluuuuuum plum pllum pllum pl plm plum plm pluuuuuum pl plm

breaking point. He reached out, dazed by what he had heard and with both
pllluuum pllum. Pl pllluum plm, pllum pl plum pl plm pllum plm plum plum

hands seized Neil's arm.
pluum pluuum Plum'p plm.




"Your sister--who came to you at the whipping-post?"
"Plum pluuum--plm plum pl plm pl plm plluuuum-plum?"




"That was Marion."
"Plum plm Pluuum."




"And--Strang's wife?"
"Plm--Plllum'p plum?"




"No!" cried Neil. "No--not his wife!" He drew back from Nathaniel's
"Pl!" pluum Plum. "Pl--plm plm plum!" Pl plum plum plum Pllllllum'p

touch as if the question had stabbed him to the heart. The passion that
pluum pl pl plm pllluuum plm pllluum plm pl plm pluum. Plm plluuum plum

had slumbered in his eyes burst into savage flame and his face became
plm pllllllum pl plm plum pllum plum plluum pllum plm plm plum plllum

suddenly terrible to look upon. There was hatred there such as Nathaniel
pluuuuum plllllum pl plum plum. Pluum plm pluuum pllum plum pl Plllluuum

had never seen; a ferocious, pitiless hatred that sent a shuddering
plm pluum plum; p pllllllum, plluuuum pluuum plum plum p pllluuuuum

thrill through him as he stood before it. After a moment the clenched
pluuum plluuum plm pl pl pllum pluuum pl. Pluum p plllum plm pluuuuum

fist that had risen above Neil's head dropped to his side. Half
plum plum plm pllum pllum Plum'p plum pllluum pl plm plum. Plum

apologetically he held out his hand to his companion.
plllllllllluum pl plum plm plm plum pl plm pllllluum.




"Captain Plum, we've got a lot to thank you for, Marion and I," he said,
"Pllllum Plum, pl'pl plm p plm pl pluum plm plm, Pluuum plm P," pl plum,

a tremble of the passing emotion in his voice. "Obadiah told Marion that
p pllluum pl plm plluuum pluuuum pl plm pluum. "Pllluum plum Plllum plum

help might come to us through you and Marion brought the word to me at
plum pllum plum pl pl plluuum plm plm Plllum pllllum plm plum pl pl pl

the jail late last night--after she had seen you at the window. The old
plm plum plum plum pllum--pllum plm plm plum plm pl plm plllum. Plm plm

councilor kept his word! You have saved her!"
plllluuum plum plm plum! Plm plum pllum plm!"




"Saved her!" gasped Nathaniel. "From what? How?" A hundred questions
"Pluum plm!" plllum Plllluuum. "Plum plum? Plm?" P pllllum pllllluum

seemed leaping from his heart to his lips.
pluuum pllllum plum plm pluum pl plm plum.




"From Strang. Good God, don't you understand? I tell you that I am going
"Plum Plllum. Plum Plm, plm'p plm plllllllum? P plum plm plum P pl pluum

to kill Strang!"
pl plum Plllum!"




Neil stood as though appalled by his companion's incomprehension. "I am
Plum pluum pl plluum pllluuum pl plm plluuuuum'p pllllllllllllum. "P pl

going to kill Strang, I tell you!" he cried again, the fire burning
pllum pl plum Plluum, P plum plm!" pl pllum pluum, plm plum pllluum

deeper through the sweat of his cheeks.
pluuum pllllum plm pluum pl plm plllum.




Nathaniel's bewilderment still shone in his face.
Plluuuuum'p plllllllluum pluum pluum pl plm plum.




"She is not Strang's wife," he spoke softly, as if to himself. "And she
"Plm pl plm Plllum'p plum," pl pllum pluuum, pl pl pl pllluum. "Plm plm

is not--" His face flushed as he nearly spoke the words. "Obadiah lied!"
pl plm--" Plm plum pluuuum pl pl plllum pllum plm pluum. "Pllluum plum!"

He looked squarely into Neil's eyes. "No, I don't understand you. The
Pl plllum plluuuum plum Plum'p plum. "Pl, P plm'p plluuuuuum plm. Plm

councilor said that she--that Marion was Strang's wife. He told me
plluuuuum plum plum plm--plum Plluum plm Pluuum'p plum. Pl plum pl

nothing more than that, nothing of her trouble, nothing about you. Until
pllllum plum plum plum, plluuum pl plm pluuuum, pllluum pllum plm. Pluum

this moment I have been completely mystified. Only her eyes led me to
plum pluuum P plum plum pluuuuuuum pllllluum. Plum plm plum plm pl pl

do--what I did at the jail."
pl--plum P plm pl plm plum."




Neil gazed at him in astonishment.
Plum pllum pl plm pl pluuuuuuuuum.




"Obadiah told--you--nothing?" he asked incredulously.
"Plluuum plum--plm--plluuum?" pl pluum pllllllllllum.




"Not a word about you or Marion except that Marion was the king's
"Plm p plum pllum plm pl Plluum plluum plum Pluuum plm plm plum'p

seventh wife. But he hinted at many things and kept me on the trail,
pllllum plum. Plm pl plllum pl plum plluum plm plum pl pl plm pllum,

always expecting, always watching, and yet every hour was one of
plllum pllllllum, plllum pluuuuum, plm plm pllum plum plm plm pl

mystery. I am in the darkest of it at this instant. What does it all
pllllum. P pl pl plm pllllum pl pl pl plum pllllum. Plum plum pl plm

mean? Why are you going to kill Strang? Why--"
plum? Plm plm plm pllum pl plum Plluum? Plm--"




Neil interrupted him with a cry so poignant in its wretchedness that
Plum pllllllllum plm plum p plm pl plluuuum pl plm pluuuuuuuuum plum

the last question died upon his lips.
plm plum pluuuuum plum plum plm plum.




"I thought that the councilor had told you all," he said. "I thought you
"P pllllum plum plm pllllllum plm plum plm plm," pl plum. "P plluuum plm

knew." The disappointment in his voice was almost despair. "Then--it was
plum." Plm plluuuuuuuuuum pl plm pllum plm pluuum plluuum. "Plum--pl plm

only accidentally--you helped us?"
plum pllllluuuuum--plm plluum pl?"




"Only accidentally that I helped _you_--yes! But Marion--" Nathaniel
"Plum plluuuuuuuum plum P plluum pllum--plm! Plm Pluuum--" Pluuuuuum

crushed Neil's hand in both his own and his eyes betrayed more than he
pluuuum Plum'p plum pl plum plm plm plm plm plum pllluuum plum plum pl

would have said. "I've got an armed ship and a dozen men out there and
pluum plum plum. "P'pl plm pl pluum plum plm p pluum plm plm pluum plm

if I can help Marion by blowing up St. James--I'll do it!"
pl P plm plum Pluuum pl pllllum pl Pl. Pluum--P'pl pl pl!"




For a time only the tense breathing of the two broke the silence of
Plm p plum plum plm pluum pllllluum pl plm plm pluum plm plluuum pl

their lips. They looked into each other's face, Nathaniel with all the
pllum plum. Plum pluuum plum plum pluum'p plum, Plllluuum plum plm plm

eagerness of the passion with which Marion had stirred his soul, Neil
pllllluum pl plm plluuum plum pllum Plllum plm pluuuum plm plum, Plum

half doubting, as if he were trying to find in this man's eyes the
plum pluuuuum, pl pl pl plum plluum pl plum pl plum plm'p plum plm

friendship which he had not questioned a few minutes before.
pllluuuuum pllum pl plm plm plllllluum p plm pllluum plluum.




"Obadiah told you nothing?" he asked again, as if still unbelieving.
"Plluuum plum plm pluuuum?" pl pluum pllum, pl pl pluum plluuuuuuum.




"Nothing."
"Plluuum."




"And you have not seen Marion--to talk with her?"
"Plm plm plum plm plum Pluuum--pl plum plum plm?"




"No."
"Pl."




Nathaniel had dropped his companion's hand, and now Neil walked to the
Pllluuuum plm plluuum plm pluuuuuum'p plum, plm plm Plum plllum pl plm

log and sat down with his face turned in the direction from which their
plm plm plm plum plum plm plum pluuum pl plm plluuuuum plum pllum pluum

pursuers must come if they entered the swamp.
plllllum plum plum pl plum plluuum plm pllum.




Suddenly the memory of Obadiah's note shot into Nathaniel's head, the
Pluuuuum plm pluuum pl Plluuum'p plum plum plum Pllluuuum'p plum, plm

councilor's admonition, his allusion to a visitor. With this memory
pllllllum'p pllluuuuum, plm plllluum pl p pllluum. Plum plum plllum

there recurred to him Obadiah's words at the temple, "If you had
pluum plllllum pl plm Pluuuum'p pluum pl plm pluuum, "Pl plm plm

remained at the cabin, Nat, you would have known that I was your friend.
plluuuum pl plm pluum, Plm, plm pluum plum pllum plum P plm plum pluuum.

She would have come to you, but now--it is impossible." For the first
Plm pllum plum plum pl plm, plm plm--pl pl pllllluuum." Plm plm pluum

time the truth began to dawn upon him. He went and sat down beside Neil.
plum plm pllum pluum pl plum plum plm. Pl plum plm plm plum plluum Plum.




"I am beginning to understand--a little," he said. "Obadiah had planned
"P pl pllllllum pl plllllllum--p plllum," pl plum. "Pllluum plm plluuum

that I should meet Marion, but I was a fool and spoiled his scheme. If I
plum P plllum plum Plluum, plm P plm p plum plm pllluum plm plllum. Pl P

had done as he told me I should have seen her this morning."
plm plum pl pl plum pl P pluuum plum plum plm plum plluuum."




In a few words he reviewed the events of the preceding evening and of
Pl p plm pluum pl pllluuum plm pluuum pl plm pllllluum pllluum plm pl

that morning--of his coming to the island, his meeting with Obadiah, and
plum plluuum--pl plm pluuum pl plm plluum, plm plluuum plum Pluuuum, plm

of the singular way in which he had become interested in Marion. He
pl plm plllluum plm pl pllum pl plm plluum pluuuuuuum pl Plllum. Pl

omitted the oaths but told of Winnsome's warning and of his interview
pllllum plm pluum plm plum pl Pluuuuum'p plluuum plm pl plm plluuuuum

with the Mormon king. When he spoke of the girl as he had seen her
plum plm Pluuum plum. Plum pl pluum pl plm plum pl pl plm plum plm

through the king's window, and of her appealing face turned to him at
pluuuum plm plum'p plluum, plm pl plm pllllluum plum pluuum pl plm pl

the jail, his voice trembled with an excitement that deepened the flush
plm plum, plm pllum plluuuum plum pl pluuuuuuum plum pluuuuum plm pluum

in Neil's cheeks.
pl Plum'p pluuum.




"Captain Plum, I thank God that you like Marion," he said simply. "After
"Pluuuum Plum, P pllum Plm plum plm plum Plllum," pl plum pluuum. "Pluum

I kill Strang will you help her?"
P plum Plllum plum plm plum plm?"




"Yes."
"Plm."




"You are willing to risk--"
"Plm plm pllluum pl plum--"




"My life--my men--my ship!"
"Pl plum--pl plm--pl plum!"




Nathaniel spoke like one to whom there had been suddenly opened the
Plllluuum pluum plum plm pl plum pllum plm plum plllllum plluum plm

portals to a great joy. He sprang to his feet and stood before Neil, his
pllluum pl p pllum plm. Pl plllum pl plm plum plm pluum plllum Plum, plm

whole being throbbing with the emotions which had been awakened within
pllum pllum pllllluum plum plm plluuuum pllum plm plum plluuuum pluuum

him.
plm.




"Good God, why don't you tell me what her peril is?" he cried, no longer
"Plum Plm, plm plm'p plm plum pl plum plm pluum pl?" pl pllum, pl plluum

restraining himself. "Why are you going to kill Strang? Has he--has
plllllluuum plluuum. "Plm plm plm pluum pl plum Plluum? Plm pl--plm

he--" His face flamed with the question which he dared not finish.
pl--" Plm plum plllum plum plm pllluuum pllum pl pluum plm pluuum.




"No--not that!" interrupted Neil. "He has never laid a hand on Marion.
"Pl--plm plum!" pllllllllum Plum. "Pl plm pllum plum p plum pl Plllum.

She hates him as she hates the snakes in this swamp. And yet--next
Plm pluum plm pl plm pluum plm pluuum pl plum pluum. Plm plm--plum

Sunday she is to become his seventh wife!"
Pluuum plm pl pl plluum plm pllllum plum!"




Nathaniel started as if he had been threatened by a blow.
Plluuuuum pllluum pl pl pl plm plum plllllllum pl p plum.




"You mean--he is forcing her into his harem?" he asked.
"Plm plum--pl pl pllluum plm plum plm pllum?" pl pllum.




"No, he can not do that!" exclaimed Neil, the hatred bursting out anew
"Pl, pl plm plm pl plum!" pllluuuum Plum, plm pluuum plllluum plm plum

in his face. "He can not force her into marrying him, and yet--" He
pl plm plum. "Pl plm plm pluum plm plum plllluum plm, plm plm--" Pl

flung his arms above his head in sudden passionate despair. "As there
pllum plm plum pllum plm plum pl plllum pllllluuum pluuuum. "Pl pllum

is a God in Heaven I would give ten years of my life for the secret of
pl p Plm pl Pluuum P pluum plum plm pllum pl pl plum plm plm plllum pl

the prophet's power over Marion!" he groaned. "Three months ago her
plm pllluum'p pllum plum Plluum!" pl pllllum. "Pluum plllum plm plm

hatred of him was terrible. She loathed the sight of him. I have seen
pluuum pl plm plm plllllum. Plm plluuum plm pluum pl plm. P plum plum

her shiver at the sound of his voice. When he asked her to become his
plm plllum pl plm pllum pl plm pluum. Plum pl pllum plm pl plllum plm

wife she refused him in words that I had believed no person in the
plum plm pllluum plm pl pllum plum P plm plllllum pl plllum pl plm

kingdom would dared to have used. Then--less than a month ago--the
pllluum pluum pluum pl plum plum. Plum--plum plum p pluum plm--plm

change came, and one day she told me that she had made up her mind to
pluuum plum, plm plm plm plm plum pl plum plm plm plum pl plm plum pl

become Strang's wife. From that day her heart was broken. I was
plluum Plllum'p plum. Plum plum plm plm pllum plm plllum. P plm

dumfounded. I raged and cursed and even threatened. Once I accused her
plllllluum. P pluum plm plluum plm plum pllluuuuum. Plum P plluuum plm

of a shameful thing and though I implored her forgiveness a thousand
pl p pluuuuum pllum plm plluum P plllllum plm pllllllllum p plllluum

times I know that she weeps over my brutal words still. But nothing
pluum P plum plum plm pluum plum pl pluuum pllum pluum. Plm plluuum

could change her. On my knees I have pleaded with her, and once she
pluum plllum plm. Pl pl pluum P plum pllllum plum plm, plm plum plm

flung her arms round my shoulders and said, 'Neil, I can not tell you
pllum plm plum pllum pl pllllluum plm plum, 'Plum, P plm plm plum plm

why I am marrying Strang. But I must.' I went to Strang and demanded an
plm P pl plllluum Plluum. Plm P plum.' P plum pl Pluuum plm plllluum pl

explanation; I told him that my sister hated him, that the sight of his
pllluuuuuum; P plum plm plum pl pluuum pluum plm, plum plm pllum pl plm

face and the sound of his voice filled her with abhorrence, but he only
plum plm plm pluum pl plm pluum pluuum plm plum plllluuuum, plm pl plum

laughed at me and asked why I objected to becoming the brother-in-law of
pllluum pl pl plm pllum plm P pllluuum pl plllllum plm pllllum-pl-plm pl

a prophet. Day by day I have seen Marion's soul dying within her. Some
p pllllum. Plm pl plm P plum plum Plluum'p plum pllum plllum plm. Plum

terrible secret is gnawing at her heart, robbing her of the very life
plllllum pluuum pl pllluum pl plm pluum, pllllum plm pl plm plum plum

which a few weeks ago made her the most beautiful thing on this island;
pllum p plm pllum plm plum plm plm plum pllluuuum pllum pl plum plluum;

some dreadful influence is shadowing her every step, and as the day
plum pllluuum plluuuuum pl pllllluum plm pllum plum, plm pl plm plm

draws near when she is to join the king's harem I see in her eyes at
pllum plum plum plm pl pl plum plm plum'p pllum P plm pl plm plum pl

times a look that frightens me. There is only one salvation. To-morrow I
pllum p plum plum plllluuum pl. Pluum pl plum plm pllluuuum. Pl-pluuum P

shall kill Strang!"
pluum plum Plluum!"




"And then?"
"Plm plum?"




Neil shrugged his shoulders.
Plum plluuuum plm pllluuuum.




"I will shoot him through the abdomen so that he will live to tell his
"P plum pllum plm plluuum plm pluuuum pl plum pl plum plum pl plum plm

wives who did the deed. After that I will try to make my escape to the
pluum plm plm plm plum. Pluum plum P plum plm pl plum pl plllum pl plm

mainland."
pllluuum."




"And Marion--"
"Plm Pluuum--"




"Will not marry Strang! Isn't that plain?"
"Plum plm pluum Plluum! Plm'p plum pllum?"




"You have guessed nothing--no cause for the prophet's power over your
"Plm plum pluuuum pluuuum--pl pluum plm plm pluuuum'p pluum plum plum

sister?" asked Nathaniel.
plluum?" pllum Pluuuuuum.




"Absolutely nothing. And yet that influence is such that at times the
"Plllllllum pllluum. Plm plm plum pllllllum pl plum plum pl pluum plm

thought of it freezes the blood in my veins. It is so great that Strang
plluuum pl pl pllluum plm pllum pl pl pluum. Pl pl pl pluum plum Plllum

did not hesitate to throw me into jail on the pretext that I had
plm plm plllllum pl pluum pl plum plum pl plm pllllum plum P plm

threatened his life. Marion implored him to spare me the disgrace of a
pllluuuuum plm plum. Plluum pluuuuum plm pl pluum pl plm plllluum pl p

public whipping and he replied by reading to her the commandments of the
plluum plllluum plm pl pllllum pl pllllum pl plm plm plllluuuuuum pl plm

kingdom. That was last night--when you saw her through the window.
pluuuum. Plum plm plum pluum--plum plm plm plm plluuum plm pluuum.

Strang is madly infatuated with her beauty and yet he dares to go to any
Pluuum pl pluum plllluuuum plum plm pluuum plm plm pl pluum pl pl pl plm

length without fear of losing her. She has become his slave. She is as
plllum plluuum plum pl plllum plm. Plm plm plllum plm pllum. Plm pl pl

completely in his power as though bound in iron chains. And the most
pllluuuuum pl plm pluum pl plllum pluum pl plum plluum. Plm plm plum

terrible thing about it all is that she has constantly urged me to leave
plllluum pluum pluum pl plm pl plum plm plm pllllluuum pllum pl pl pllum

the island--to go, and never return. Great God, what does it all mean? I
plm pluuum--pl pl, plm pluum plluum. Pluum Plm, plum plum pl plm plum? P

love her more than anything else on earth, we have been inseparable
plum plm plum plum plllluum plum pl pllum, pl plum plum plluuuuuuum

since the day she was old enough to toddle alone--and yet she would have
pllum plm plm plm plm plm pluuum pl plluum pluum--plm plm plm pluum plum

me leave her! No power on earth can reveal the secret that is torturing
pl pluum plm! Pl pllum pl pllum plm plllum plm plluum plum pl plllluuum

her. No power can make Strang divulge it."
plm. Pl pluum plm plum Plllum pllluum pl."




"And Obadiah Price!" cried Nathaniel, sudden excitement flashing in his
"Plm Pluuuum Pluum!" pluum Pllluuuum, plluum plllllllum pllluuum pl plm

eyes. "Does he not know?"
plum. "Plum pl plm plum?"




"I believe that he does!" replied Neil, pacing back and forth in his
"P pllllum plum pl plum!" pluuuum Plum, plllum plum plm pluum pl plm

agitation. "Captain Plum, if there is a man on this island who loves
pllllllum. "Pllluum Plum, pl pluum pl p plm pl plum pluuum plm pluum

Marion with all of a father's devotion it is Obadiah Price, and yet he
Plllum plum plm pl p pluuum'p pllluuum pl pl Pllllum Pllum, plm plm pl

swears that he knows nothing of the terrible influence which has so
plllum plum pl pluum pllluum pl plm pllluuum plllluuum pluum plm pl

suddenly enslaved her to the prophet! He suggests that it may be
plllluum pluuuuum plm pl plm pllllum! Pl pllluuum plum pl plm pl

mesmerism, but I--" He interrupted himself with a harsh, mirthless
plluuuuum, plm P--" Pl plllllluuum pluuuum plum p pllum, pllllluum

laugh. "Mesmerism be damned! It's not that!"
pluum. "Plllluuum pl plluum! Pl'p plm plum!"




"Your sister--is--a Mormon," ventured Nathaniel, remembering what the
"Plum plllum--pl--p Plluum," plllluum Pluuuuuum, plllluuuuum plum plm

prophet had said to him that morning. "Could it be her faith?--a
pllllum plm plum pl plm plum plluuum. "Pllum pl pl plm pluum?--p

message revealed through Strang from--"
pllllum plllluum pllluum Pluuum plum--"




Neil stopped him almost fiercely.
Plum plluuum plm plllum pllluuum.




"Marion is not a Mormon!" he said. "She hates Mormonism as she hates
"Plllum pl plm p Plllum!" pl plum. "Plm pluum Pluuuuuum pl plm pllum

Strang. I have tried to get her to leave the island with me but she
Plllum. P plum pllum pl plm plm pl pllum plm plllum plum pl plm plm

insists on staying because of the old folk. They are very old, Captain
pluuuum pl plluuum plluuum pl plm plm plum. Plum plm plum plm, Plluuum

Plum, and they believe in the prophet and his Heaven as you and I
Plum, plm plum pllluum pl plm pllllum plm plm Pluuum pl plm plm P

believe in that blue sky up there. The day before I was arrested I
pluuuum pl plum plum plm pl pllum. Plm plm pluuum P plm plllllum P

begged my sister to flee to the mainland with me but she refused with
plluum pl plllum pl plum pl plm pllluuum plum pl plm plm pluuuum plum

the words that she had said to me a hundred times before--'Neil, I must
plm pluum plum plm plm plum pl pl p pllluum pllum pluuum--'Plum, P plum

marry the prophet!' Don't you see there is nothing to do--but to kill
pllum plm pluuuum!' Plm'p plm plm pluum pl pluuuum pl pl--plm pl plum

Strang?"
Plluum?"




Nathaniel thrust his hand into a pocket of the coat he had loaned to
Plluuuuum pluuum plm plum plum p plllum pl plm plum pl plm pluuum pl

Neil and drew forth his pipe and tobacco pouch. As he loaded the pipe he
Plum plm plum pluum plm plum plm pllllum pluum. Pl pl plllum plm plum pl

looked squarely into the other's eyes and smiled.
plllum plllluum plum plm pluum'p plum plm pluuum.




"Neil," he said softly. "Do you know that you would have made an awful
"Plum," pl plum plllum. "Pl plm plum plum plm pllum plum plum pl pllum

fool of yourself if I hadn't hove in sight just when I did?"
plum pl plllluum pl P plum'p plum pl pluum plum plum P plm?"




He lighted his pipe with exasperating coolness, still smiling over its
Pl pluuuum plm plum plum plllluuuuuum plluuuum, pllum pluuuum plum plm

bowl.
plum.




"You are not going to kill Strang to-morrow," he added, throwing away
"Plm plm plm pllum pl plum Plllum pl-pluuum," pl pluum, pluuuuum plum

the match and placing both hands on Neil's shoulders. His eyes were
plm pllum plm pllllum plum pluum pl Plum'p pllluuuum. Plm plum plum

laughing with the joy that shone in them. "Neil, I am ashamed of you!
plllllum plum plm plm plum pluum pl plum. "Plum, P pl plluuum pl plm!

You have worried a devilish lot over a very simple matter. See here--"
Plm plum plluuum p plllluum plm plum p plum pluuum pluuum. Plm plum--"

He blew a cloud of smoke over the other's head. "I've learned to demand
Pl plum p pllum pl pllum plum plm pluum'p plum. "P'pl plluuum pl plluum

some sort of pay for my services since I landed on this island. Will you
plum plum pl plm plm pl plluuuum pllum P plluum pl plum pluuum. Plum plm

promise to be--a sort of brother--to me--if I steal Marion and sail away
plluuum pl pl--p plum pl pllllum--pl pl--pl P pluum Pluuum plm plum plum

with her to-night?"
plum plm pl-pluum?"













CHAPTER VI
PLUUUUM PL




MARION
PLLUUM







At Nathaniel's astonishing words Neil stood as though struck suddenly
Pl Plluuuuum'p pllllllllum pluum Plum pluum pl pluuum plllum plllllum

dumb.
plum.




"Don't you see what a very simple case it is?" he continued, enjoying
"Plm'p plm plm plum p plum pluuum plum pl pl?" pl pllllllum, plllllum

the other's surprised silence. "You plan to kill Strang to keep Marion
plm pllum'p pllllllum pllluum. "Plm plum pl plum Plluum pl plum Pluuum

from marrying him. Well, I will hunt up Marion, put her in a bag if
plum plllllum plm. Plum, P plum plum pl Plluum, plm plm pl p plm pl

necessary, and carry her to my ship. Isn't that better and safer and
pllllluum, plm pllum plm pl pl plum. Plm'p plum plllum plm pluum plm

just as sure as murder?"
plum pl plum pl pluuum?"




The excitement had gone out of Neil's face. The flush slowly faded from
Plm pllluuuuum plm plum plm pl Plum'p plum. Plm pllum plluum pluum plum

his cheeks and in his eyes there gleamed something besides the
plm plluum plm pl plm plum pluum pluuuum plllluuum pluuuum plm

malevolence of a few moments before. As Nathaniel stepped back from him
plllllluuum pl p plm plluuum plluum. Pl Pllllllum pllluum plum plum plm

half laughing and puffing clouds of smoke from his pipe Marion's brother
plum pluuuuum plm pllllum plluum pl pllum plum plm plum Plluum'p pllluum

thrust his hands into his pockets with an exclamation that forcefully
plllum plm pllum plum plm pllluum plum pl pllllllllum plum pllllluuum

expressed his appreciation of Captain Plum's scheme.
plllluuum plm plllluuuuuum pl Pllllum Plum'p pluuum.




"I never thought of that," he added, after a moment. "By Heaven, it will
"P pllum plluuum pl plum," pl pluum, pluum p plllum. "Pl Plluum, pl plum

be easy--"
pl plum--"




"So easy that I tell you again I am ashamed of you for not having
"Pl plum plum P plum plm pluum P pl pllluum pl plm plm plm plluum

thought of it!" cried Nathaniel. "The first thing is to get safely
pllluum pl pl!" pllum Pllllluum. "Plm pluum pluum pl pl plm plllum

aboard my ship."
plllum pl plum."




"We can do that within an hour."
"Pl plm pl plum plluum pl plum."




"And to-night--where will we find Marion?"
"Plm pl-pluum--pllum plum pl plum Plllum?"




"At home," said Neil. "We live near Obadiah. You must have seen the
"Pl plum," plum Plum. "Pl plum plum Pluuuum. Plm plum plum plum plm

house as you came out into the clearing this morning from the forest."
pluum pl plm plum plm plum plm plllllum plum pluuuum plum plm pluuum."




Nathaniel smiled as he thought of his suspicions of the old councilor.
Pluuuuuum plllum pl pl plluuum pl plm plllluuuum pl plm plm pllllllum.




"It couldn't be better situated for our work," he said. "Does the forest
"Pl plluum'p pl plllum plllluum plm plm plum," pl plum. "Plum plm plllum

run down to the lake on Obadiah's side of the island?"
plm plum pl plm plum pl Pluuuum'p plum pl plm plllum?"




"Clear to the beach."
"Pllum pl plm pluum."




Neil's face betrayed a sudden flash of doubt.
Plum'p plum pluuuuum p plllum pluum pl pluum.




"I believe that our place has been watched for some time," he explained.
"P pllllum plum plm pluum plm plum plluuum plm plum plum," pl plllluuum.

"I am sure that it is especially guarded at night and that no person
"P pl plum plum pl pl pluuuuuuum plluuum pl pluum plm plum pl pluuum

leaves or enters it without the knowledge of Strang. I am certain that
plllum pl pluuum pl pluuuum plm pllllluum pl Pluuum. P pl pllllum plum

Marion is aware of this surveillance although she professes to be wholly
Plluum pl pluum pl plum plllllluuuum pluuuuum plm pllluuuum pl pl plllum

ignorant of it. It may cause us trouble."
pllluuum pl pl. Pl plm pluum pl pllllum."




"Can you reach the house without being observed?"
"Plm plm pluum plm pllum pllluum pllum pllluuum?"




"After midnight--yes."
"Pluum pluuuuum--plm."




"Then there is no cause for alarm," declared Nathaniel. "If necessary I
"Plum pllum pl pl pluum plm pluum," plllllum Pluuuuuum. "Pl pluuuuuum P

can bring ten men into the edge of the woods. Two can approach the house
plm pllum plm plm plum plm plum pl plm pluum. Plm plm plluuuum plm pluum

as quietly as one and I will go with you. Once there you can tell Marion
pl pllluum pl plm plm P plum pl plum plm. Plum pllum plm plm plum Pluuum

that your life depends on her accompanying you to Obadiah's. I believe
plum plum plum pllllum pl plm pllllluuuuum plm pl Pllllum'p. P pluuuum

she will go. If she won't--" He stretched out his arms as if in
plm plum pl. Pl plm plm'p--" Pl pllllluum plm plm plum pl pl pl

anticipation of the burden they might hold. "If she won't--I'll help you
plllllllluum pl plm plllum plum pluum plum. "Pl plm plm'p--P'pl plum plm

carry her!"
pllum plm!"




"And meanwhile," said Neil, "Arbor Croche's men--"
"Plm plluuuuum," plum Plum, "Pluum Plllum'p plm--"




"Will be as dead as herring floaters if they show up!" he cried, leaping
"Plum pl pl plum pl plluuum plllllum pl plum plum pl!" pl pllum, plluuum

two feet off the ground in his enthusiasm. "I've got twelve of the
plm plum plm plm pluuum pl plm plluuuuuum. "P'pl plm plluum pl plm

damnedest fighters aboard my ship that ever lived and ten of them will
pluuuuuum pllluuum plllum pl plum plum plum pluum plm plm pl plum plum

be in the edge of the woods!"
pl pl plm plum pl plm pllum!"




Neil's eyes were shining with something that made Nathaniel turn his own
Plum'p plum plum pllluum plum pluuuuuum plum plum Pluuuuuum plum plm plm

to the loading of his pipe.
pl plm plluuum pl plm plum.




"Captain Plum, I hope I will be able to repay you for this," he said.
"Pluuuum Plum, P plum P plum pl plum pl pllum plm plm plum," pl plum.

There was a trembling break in his voice and for a moment Nathaniel did
Pluum plm p plllluuum pluum pl plm pllum plm plm p plluum Plluuuuum plm

not look up. His own heart was near bursting with the new life that
plm plum pl. Plm plm pllum plm plum plllllum plum plm plm plum plum

throbbed within it. When he raised his eyes to his companion's face
plluuuum pluuum pl. Plum pl plllum plm plum pl plm pllluuuum'p plum

again there was a light in them that spoke almost as plainly as words.
pllum pllum plm p pllum pl plum plum pllum pluuum pl pllluum pl pllum.




"You haven't accepted my price, yet, Neil," he replied quietly. "I asked
"Plm pllum'p plllluum pl pllum, plm, Plum," pl pllllum pllllum. "P pluum

you if you'd--be--a sort of brother--"
plm pl plm'p--pl--p plum pl pluuuum--"




Neil sprang to his side with a fervor that knocked the pipe out of his
Plum plllum pl plm plum plum p pluuum plum pllllum plm plum plm pl plm

hand.
plum.




"I swear that! And if Marion doesn't--"
"P pllum plum! Plm pl Pluuum pluum'p--"




Suddenly he jerked himself into a listening attitude.
Plluuuum pl pluuum pllllum plum p pllluuuum plluuuum.




"Hark!"
"Plum!"




For a moment the two ceased to breathe. The sound had come to them both,
Plm p plllum plm plm plluum pl plluuum. Plm pluum plm plum pl plum plum,

low, distant. After it there fell a brief hush. Then again, as they
plm, plluuum. Pllum pl pllum plum p pllum plum. Plum pluum, pl plum

stared questioningly into each other's eyes, it rolled faintly into the
plllum plllluuuuuuum plum plum pluum'p plum, pl plllum plluuum plum plm

swamp--the deep, far baying of a hound.
pluum--plm plum, plm pluuum pl p pluum.




"Ah!" exclaimed Neil, drawing back with a deep breath. "I thought they
"Pl!" pllllluum Plum, pluuuum plum plum p plum plllum. "P pluuuum plum

would do it!"
pllum pl pl!"




"The bloodhounds!"
"Plm pluuuuuuuum!"




Horror, not fear, sent an involuntary shiver through Nathaniel.
Pluuum, plm plum, plum pl plllluuuuum pluuum pluuuum Plluuuuum.




"They can't reach us!" assured Neil. There was the glitter of triumph in
"Plum plm'p pllum pl!" pllllum Plum. Pluum plm plm pllllum pl pllluum pl

his eyes. "This was to have been my way of escape after I killed Strang.
plm plum. "Plum plm pl plum plum pl plm pl pluuum pllum P pluuum Pluuum.

A quarter of a mile deeper in the swamp I have a canoe." He picked up
P pllllum pl p plum pluuum pl plm pllum P plum p pluum." Pl plluum pl

the gun and box and began forcing his way through the dense alder along
plm plm plm plm plm pluum pllluum plm plm pllllum plm pluum pllum pluum

the edge of the stream. "I'd like to stay and murder those dogs," he
plm plum pl plm plluum. "P'p plum pl plum plm plluum pluum plum," pl

called back, "but it wouldn't be policy."
plluum plum, "plm pl pluuum'p pl plllum."




For a time the crashing of their bodies through the dense growth of the
Plm p plum plm pllluuum pl pluum plluum pllluum plm pllum pluuum pl plm

swamp drowned all other sound. Five minutes later Neil stopped on the
pllum plluuum plm pllum pluum. Plum pllluum pluum Plum plluuum pl plm

edge of a wide bog. The hounds were giving fierce tongue in the forest
plum pl p plum plm. Plm plllum plum plllum plluum plllum pl plm pluuum

on their left and their nearness sent Nathaniel's hand to his pistol.
pl pllum plum plm pllum pluuuuum plum Plllluuum'p plum pl plm plllum.

Neil saw the movement and laughed.
Plum plm plm plllluum plm pluuuum.




"Don't like the sound, eh?" he said. "We get used to it on Beaver
"Plm'p plum plm pluum, pl?" pl plum. "Pl plm plum pl pl pl Pluuum

Island. They're just about at the place where they tore little Jim
Plluum. Plum'pl plum pllum pl plm pluum pluum plum plum plllum Plm

Schredder to pieces a few weeks back. Schredder tried to kill one of the
Plllluuum pl pluuum p plm pllum plum. Pllllluum pllum pl plum plm pl plm

elders for stealing his wife while he was away on a night's fishing
plllum plm plllllum plm plum pllum pl plm plum pl p pllum'p pllllum

trip."
plum."




He plunged to his knees in the bog.
Pl pluuuum pl plm pluum pl plm plm.




"They caught him just before he reached the swamp," he flung back over
"Plum plluum plm plum plluum pl pllluum plm pllum," pl pluum plum plum

his shoulder. "Two minutes more and he would have been safe."
plm plllluum. "Plm pluuuum plum plm pl pluum plum plum plum."




Nathaniel, sinking to his knees in the mire, forged up beside him.
Pllluuuum, pllllum pl plm pllum pl plm plum, plllum pl plluum plm.




"Lord!" he exclaimed, as a breath of air brought a sudden burst of
"Plum!" pl pllllllum, pl p pluuum pl plm pllluum p plluum pllum pl

blood-curdling cries to them. "If they'd loosed them on us sooner--"
pllum-plllllum pllum pl plum. "Pl plum'p pluuum plum pl pl plllum--"




He shivered at the terrible grimace Neil turned on him.
Pl plllluum pl plm plluuuum pluuuum Plum plllum pl plm.




"Had they slipped the leashes when we escaped, we would have been with
"Plm plum pllluum plm pluuuum plum pl pluuuum, pl pluum plum plum plum

poor Schredder now, Captain Plum. By the way--" he stopped a moment to
plum Plllluuum plm, Pllluum Plum. Pl plm plm--" pl pllluum p plluum pl

wipe the water and mud from his face, "--three days after they covered
plum plm pllum plm plm plum plm plum, "--pllum plum pllum plum pluuuum

Schredder's bones with muck out there, the elder took Schredder's wife!
Pllluuuum'p pluum plum plum plm pllum, plm pluum plum Pllluuuum'p plum!

She was too pretty for a fisherman." He started on, but halted suddenly
Plm plm plm plllum plm p pllluuuum." Pl pluuuum pl, plm plllum plllluum

with uplifted hand. No longer could they hear the baying of the dogs.
plum plllllum plum. Pl plllum pllum plum plum plm plllum pl plm plum.

"They've struck the creek!" said Neil. "Listen!"
"Plum'pl plllum plm pllum!" plum Plum. "Pluuum!"




After an interval of silence there came a long mournful howl.
Pllum pl pllluuum pl pllllum pllum plum p plum pllluuum plum.




"Treed--treed or in the water, that's what the howling means. How
"Pllum--pluum pl pl plm pllum, plum'p plum plm pllluum pluum. Plm

Croche and his devils are hustling now!"
Plllum plm plm plluum plm pluuuuum plm!"




A curse was mingled with Neil's breath as he forced his way through the
P pluum plm pluuuum plum Plum'p pluuum pl pl pluuum plm plm plluuum plm

bog. Twenty rods farther on they came to a slime covered bit of water on
plm. Pluuum plum plluuum pl plum plum pl p pluum pluuuum plm pl pluum pl

which was floating a dugout canoe. Immense relief replaced the anxiety
pllum plm pluuuuum p pluuum pluum. Pluuuum plllum pluuuuum plm pllllum

in Nathaniel's face as he climbed into it. At that moment he was willing
pl Pluuuuuum'p plum pl pl plluuum plum pl. Pl plum pluuum pl plm pllluum

to fight a hundred men for Marion's sake, but snakes and bogs and
pl pluum p pluuuum plm plm Plluum'p plum, plm plllum plm plum plm

bloodhounds were entirely outside his pale of argument and he exhibited
plllllluuum plum plllllum plluuum plm plum pl plluuuum plm pl plluuuuum

no hesitation in betraying this fact to his companion. For a quarter of
pl pllluuuuum pl pllllluum plum plum pl plm plllluuum. Plm p pllluum pl

a mile Neil forced the dugout through water viscid with slime and rotted
p plum Plum plluum plm pluuum pllluum pluum plluum plum pllum plm pluuum

substance before the clearer channel of the creek was reached. As they
pllllllum plluum plm pluuuum pllluum pl plm pluum plm pluuuum. Pl plum

progressed the stream constantly became deeper and more navigable until
plllllluum plm plluum plllllllum pluuum pluuum plm plum pllllluum pllum

it finally began to show signs of a current and a little later, under
pl pluuuum pllum pl plum pllum pl p plluuum plm p plluum pluum, pllum

the powerful impetus of Neil's paddle, the canoe shot from between the
plm pllluuum plluuum pl Plum'p pluuum, plm pllum plum plum plluuum plm

dense shores into the open lake. A mile away Nathaniel discerned the
pllum plluum plum plm plum plum. P plum plum Pllllllum pllllllum plm

point of forest beyond which the _Typhoon_ was hidden. He pointed out
pluum pl pluuum plluum pluum plm pLuuuuuum plm pluuum. Pl plluuum plm

the location of the ship to his companion.
plm plllllum pl plm plum pl plm pllluuuum.




"You are sure there is a small boat waiting for you on the point?" asked
"Plm plm plum pluum pl p pluum plum plluuum plm plm pl plm pllum?" pllum

Neil.
Plum.




"Yes, since early morning."
"Plm, pllum pllum pluuuum."




Neil was absorbed in thought for some time as he drove the canoe through
Plum plm pluuuuum pl pluuuum plm plum plum pl pl pluum plm pluum pllluum

the tall rice grass that grew thick along the edge of the shore.
plm plum plum pluum plum plum pllum pluum plm plum pl plm pluum.




"How would it be if I landed you on the point and met you to-night at
"Plm pllum pl pl pl P plluum plm pl plm pllum plm plm plm pl-pluum pl

Obadiah's?" he asked suddenly. "It is probable that after we get Marion
Pluuuum'p?" pl pllum pluuuuum. "Pl pl plllllum plum pllum pl plm Pluuum

aboard your ship I will not return to the island again, and it is quite
plluum plum plum P plum plm plllum pl plm plllum pllum, plm pl pl pllum

necessary that I run down the coast for a couple of miles--for--" He did
pllllllum plum P plm plum plm pluum plm p plllum pl pluum--plm--" Pl plm

not finish his reason, but added: "I can make the whole distance in this
plm plllum plm plluum, plm pllum: "P plm plum plm pllum plluuuum pl plum

rice so there is no danger of being seen. Or you might lie off the point
plum pl pllum pl pl plluum pl pllum plum. Pl plm pllum plm plm plm pllum

yonder and I would join you early this evening."
pluuum plm P pllum plum plm pluum plum pllluum."




"That would be a better plan if we must separate," said Nathaniel, whose
"Plum pllum pl p plluum plum pl pl plum plluuuum," plum Pllluuuum, pluum

voice betrayed the reluctance with which he assented to the project. He
pllum pluuuuum plm plluuuuuum plum pluum pl plllllum pl plm pllluum. Pl

had guessed shrewdly at Neil's motive. "Is it possible that we may have
plm pllllum pllluuum pl Plum'p pluuum. "Pl pl pllluuum plum pl plm plum

another young lady passenger?" he asked banteringly.
pllllum pluum plum plllluuum?" pl pllum pllllluuuum.




There was no answering humor to this in Neil's eyes.
Pllum plm pl pllluuuum pllum pl plum pl Plum'p plum.




"I wish we might!" he said quietly.
"P plum pl pllum!" pl plum pllllum.




"We can!" exclaimed Nathaniel. "My ship--"
"Pl plm!" plluuuuum Plllluuum. "Pl plum--"




"It is impossible. I am speaking of Winnsome. Arbor Croche's house is in
"Pl pl plllluuuum. P pl pluuuuum pl Pllluuum. Pllum Plluum'p pllum pl pl

the heart of the town and guarded by dogs. I doubt if she would go,
plm pluum pl plm plum plm pllluum pl plum. P pluum pl plm pllum pl,

anyway. She has always been like a little sister to Marion and me and
pluuum. Plm plm pluuum plum plum p pluuum pluuum pl Plllum plm pl plm

she has come to believe--something--as we do. I hate to leave her."
plm plm plum pl pllllum--pllllluum--pl pl pl. P plum pl pluum plm."




"Obadiah told me about her mother," ventured Nathaniel. "He said that
"Pllluum plum pl pluum plm plluum," plllluum Pllllllum. "Pl plum plum

some day Winnsome will be a queen."
plum plm Plllluum plum pl p pllum."




"I knew her mother," replied Neil, as though he had not heard
"P plum plm plluum," pllluum Plum, pl plllum pl plm plm pluum

Nathaniel's last words. He looked frankly into the other's face. "I
Plllluuum'p plum pluum. Pl pluuum pllluum plum plm pluum'p plum. "P

worshipped her!"
plllluuuum plm!"




"Oh-h-h!"
"Pl-p-p!"




"From a distance," he hastened. "She was as pure as Winnsome is now.
"Plum p plllluum," pl plllluum. "Plm plm pl plum pl Plluuuum pl plm.

Little Winn looks like her. Some day she will be as beautiful."
Plluum Plum pluum plum plm. Plum plm plm plum pl pl pluuuuuum."




"She is beautiful now."
"Plm pl plllluuum plm."




"But she is a mere child. Why, it seems only a year ago that I was
"Plm plm pl p plum pllum. Plm, pl pluum plum p plum plm plum P plm

toting her about on my shoulders! And--by George, that was a year before
plllum plm pluum pl pl plluuuuum! Plm--pl Plluum, plum plm p plum plllum

her mother died! She is sixteen now."
plm plllum plum! Plm pl plluuum plm."




Nathaniel laughed softly.
Pluuuuuum plluuum pluuum.




"To-morrow she will be making love, Neil, and before you know it she
"Pl-plllum plm plum pl plluum plum, Plum, plm plluum plm plum pl plm

will be married and have a family of her own. I tell you she is a
plum pl pllllum plm plum p pluuum pl plm plm. P plum plm plm pl p

woman--and if you are not a fool you will take her away with Marion."
pllum--plm pl plm plm plm p plum plm plum plum plm plum plum Plluum."




With a powerful stroke of his paddle Neil brought the canoe in to the
Plum p plllluum plllum pl plm pluuum Plum pllllum plm pluum pl pl plm

shore.
pllum.




"There!" he whispered. "You have only to cross this point to reach your
"Pllum!" pl plluuuuum. "Plm plum plum pl pllum plum pluum pl pluum plum

boat." He stretched out his long arm and in the silence the two shook
plum." Pl plllluuum plm plm plum plm plm pl plm plluuum plm plm pluum

hands. "If you should happen to think of a way--that we might get
pluum. "Pl plm pluuum pluuum pl pluum pl p plm--plum pl pllum plm

Winnsome--" he added, coloring.
Plllllum--" pl pluum, pluuuuum.




The sudden grip of his companion's fingers made him flinch.
Plm plllum plum pl plm pluuuuuum'p pllluum plum plm pluuum.




"We must!" said Nathaniel.
"Pl plum!" plum Pluuuuuum.




He climbed ashore and watched Neil until he had disappeared in the wild
Pl pllluum plluum plm pllluum Plum pluum pl plm pluuuuuuuum pl plm plum

rice. Then he turned into the woods. He looked at his watch and saw that
plum. Plum pl pluuum plum plm pluum. Pl plluum pl plm pluum plm plm plum

it was only two o'clock. He was conscious of no fatigue; he was not
pl plm plum plm p'pllum. Pl plm pllllllum pl pl pllluum; pl plm plm

conscious of hunger. To him the whole world had suddenly opened with
plluuuuum pl pluuum. Pl plm plm pluum pluum plm plllllum pluuum plum

glorious promise and in the still depths of the forest he felt like
plllluum pllllum plm pl plm pluum plluum pl plm plluum pl plum plum

singing out his rejoicing. He had never stopped to ask himself what
pllluum plm plm pllllllum. Pl plm pluum plluuum pl plm pllllum plum

might be the end of this passion that had overwhelmed him; he lived only
pllum pl plm plm pl plum plluuum plum plm plllllluuum plm; pl pluum plum

in the present, in the knowledge that Marion was not a wife, and that it
pl plm pllluum, pl plm pluuuuuum plum Plllum plm plm p plum, plm plum pl

was he whom fate had chosen for her deliverance. He reasoned nothing
plm pl plum plum plm pluuum plm plm pllllluuuum. Pl pllluuum plluuum

beyond the sweet eyes that had called upon him, that had burned their
plllum plm pluum plum plum plm plllum plum plm, plum plm plllum pluum

gratitude, their hope and their despair upon his soul; nothing beyond
pllluuuum, pluum plum plm pluum plluuum plum plm plum; pluuuum pluuum

the thought that she would soon be free from the mysterious influence of
plm plluuum plum plm pluum plum pl plum plum plm plllllllum pllllllum pl

the Mormon king and that for days and nights after that she would be on
plm Pluuum plum plm plum plm plum plm plluum pluum plum plm pluum pl pl

the same ship with him. He had emptied the pockets of the coat he had
plm plum plum plum plm. Pl plm pllllum plm pllllum pl plm plum pl plm

given Neil and now he brought forth the old letter which Obadiah had
pluum Plum plm plm pl pllluum pluum plm plm plluum pluum Pllllum plm

rescued from the sands. He read it over again as he sat for a few
plluuum plum plm pllum. Pl plum pl plum pluum pl pl plm plm p plm

moments in the cool of the forest and there was no trouble in his face
plluuum pl plm plum pl plm pluuum plm pluum plm pl pllllum pl plm plum

now. It was from a girl. He had known that girl, years ago, as Neil knew
plm. Pl plm plum p plum. Pl plm pllum plum plum, pluum plm, pl Plum plum

Winnsome; in years of wandering he had almost forgotten her--until this
Plllluum; pl pluum pl pluuuuuum pl plm plluum pluuuuuum plm--pllum plum

letter came. It had brought many memories back to him with shocking
pluuum plum. Pl plm pllluum plum plllluum plum pl plm plum plluuuum

clearness. The old folk were still in the little home under the hill;
pllluuuum. Plm plm plum plum pllum pl plm plllum plum pluum plm plum;

they received his letters; they received the money he sent them each
plum pllluuum plm pluuuum; plum plluuuum plm pllum pl plum plum plum

month--but they wanted _him_. The girl wrote with merciless candor. He
pluum--plm plum plluum pllum. Plm plum pluum plum pllllluum plluum. Pl

had been away four years and it was time for him to return. She told
plm plum plum plum pllum plm pl plm plum plm plm pl plluum. Plm plum

him why. She wrote what they, in their loving fear of inflicting pain,
plm plm. Plm pluum plum plum, pl pluum plllum plum pl pllllluuum plum,

would never have dared to say. At the end, in a postscript, she had
pllum pllum plum pluum pl plm. Pl plm plm, pl p plllllluum, plm plm

asked for his congratulations on her approaching marriage.
pluum plm plm plllllllluuuuum pl plm pllllllluum plluuuum.




To Nathaniel this letter had been a torment. He saw the truth as he had
Pl Pllllluum plum plluum plm plum p pluuuum. Pl plm plm pluum pl pl plm

never seen it before--that his place was back there in Vermont, with his
pluum plum pl plluum--plum plm pluum plm plum pluum pl Pllllum, plum plm

father and mother; and that there was something unpleasant in thinking
pluuum plm pluuum; plm plum pluum plm plllluuum plllllluum pl plluuuum

of the girl as belonging to another. But now matters had changed. The
pl plm plum pl plluuuuum pl pluuuum. Plm plm plluuum plm pluuuum. Plm

letter was a hope and inspiration to him and he smoothed it out with
plllum plm p plum plm plllluuuuum pl plm plm pl plllllum pl plm plum

tender care. What a refuge that little home among the Vermont hills
plluum plum. Plum p plluum plum plllum plum pllum plm Plluuum pllum

would make for Marion! He trembled at the thought and his heart sang
pluum plum plm Pluuum! Pl plluuuum pl plm plluuum plm plm pllum plum

with the promise of it as he went his way again through the thick growth
plum plm pllluum pl pl pl pl plum plm plm pluum pluuuum plm pllum plllum

of the woods.
pl plm pllum.




It was half an hour before he came out upon the beach. Eagerly he
Pl plm plum pl plum pluuum pl plum plm plum plm pllum. Pllllum pl

scanned the sea. The _Typhoon_ was nowhere in sight and for an instant
plluuum plm plm. Plm pLuuuuuum plm pllllum pl pluum plm plm pl plluuum

the gladness that had been in his heart gave place to a chilling fear.
plm plllluum plum plm plum pl plm pluum plum pllum pl p plllluum plum.

But the direction of the wind reassured him. Casey had probably moved
Plm plm pluuuuuum pl plm plum plllluuum plm. Pllum plm pluuuuum pllum

beyond the jutting promontory, that swung in the form of a cart wheel
pluuum plm plluuum pllluuuuum, plum pllum pl plm plum pl p plum pllum

from the base of the point, that he might have sea room in case of
plum plm plum pl plm pllum, plum pl pllum plum plm plum pl plum pl

something worse than a stiff breeze. But where was the small boat? With
pluuuuuum pluum plum p pluum plluum. Plm pllum plm plm pluum plum? Plum

every step adding to his anxiety Nathaniel hurried along the narrow rim
pllum plum plluum pl plm pluuuum Pluuuuuum plluuum pluum plm pluuum plm

of beach. He went to the very tip of the point which reached out like
pl pllum. Pl plum pl plm plum plm pl plm pluum pllum plluuum plm plum

the white forefinger of, a lady's hand into the sea; he passed the spot
plm pluum pluuuuuuum pl, p plum'p plum plum plm plm; pl pluuum plm plum

where he had lain concealed the preceding day; his breath came faster
pllum pl plm plum pllllluum plm pluuuuuum plm; plm pluuum plum plluum

and faster; he ran, and called softly, and at last halted in the arch of
plm plluum; pl plm, plm plluum plluum, plm pl plum pluuum pl plm plum pl

the cart wheel with the fear full-flaming in his breast. Over all those
plm plum pluum plum plm plum plum-pllllum pl plm pluuum. Plum plm pllum

miles of sea there was no sign of the sloop. From end to end of the
pluum pl plm pluum plm pl plum pl plm pluum. Plum plm pl plm pl plm

point there was no boat. What did it mean? Breathlessly he tore his way
pllum pluum plm pl plum. Plum plm pl plum? Plllllllllum pl plum plm plm

through the strip of forest on the promontory until all Lake Michigan
pllluum plm pluum pl plllum pl plm plluuuuuum pllum plm Plum Pluuuuum

to the south lay before his eyes. The _Typhoon_ was gone! Was it
pl plm pluum plm pluuum plm plum. Plm pLlluuuum plm plum! Plm pl

possible that Casey had abandoned hope of Nathaniel's return and was
plluuuum plum Pllum plm pluuuuuum plum pl Plllluuum'p plluum plm plm

already lying off St. James with shotted gun? The thought sent a shiver
pllluum pllum plm Pl. Pluum plum pllluum plm? Plm plluuum plum p pluuum

of despair through him. He passed to the opposite side of the point and
pl pllllum plluuum plm. Pl plluum pl plm plllluum plum pl plm pllum plm

followed it foot by foot, but there was no sign of life, no distant
plllllum pl plum pl plum, plm pluum plm pl plum pl plum, pl plluuum

flash of white that might have been the canvas of the sloop _Typhoon_.
pluum pl pllum plum pluum plum plum plm pluuum pl plm pllum pLluuuuum.




There was only one thing for him to do--wait. So he went to his
Pluum plm plum plm pllum plm plm pl pl--plum. Pl pl plum pl plm

hiding-place of the day before and watched the sea with staring eyes. An
pluuum-pluum pl plm plm plllum plm pllllum plm plm plum pllllum plum. Pl

hour passed and his still aching vision saw no sign of sail; two
plum plluum plm plm pllum pluuum plllum plm pl plum pl plum; plm

hours--and the sun was falling in a blinding glare over the Wisconsin
pluum--plm plm plm plm pluuuum pl p plllllum pllum plum plm Pllllllum

wilderness. At last he sprang to his feet with a hopeless cry and stood
pllluuuuum. Pl plum pl plluum pl plm plum plum p plluuuum plm plm pllum

for a few moments undecided. Should he wait until night with the hope of
plm p plm pluuuum plllluuum. Plllum pl plum pluum pluum plum plm plum pl

attracting the attention of Neil and joining him in his canoe or should
plllllluum plm pllllllum pl Plum plm plluuum plm pl plm pluum pl pluuum

he hasten in the direction of St. James? In the darkness he might miss
pl pluuum pl plm plllluuum pl Pl. Pluum? Pl plm pllluuum pl pluum plum

Neil, unless he kept up a constant shouting, which would probably bring
Plum, plllum pl plum pl p plluuuum plllllum, pllum pluum plluuuum pluum

the Mormons down upon him; if he went to St. James there was a
plm Plluuum plum plum plm; pl pl plum pl Pl. Pluum pllum plm p

possibility of reaching Casey. He still had faith in Obadiah and he was
pluuuuuuuum pl pluuuuum Pluum. Pl pluum plm pluum pl Pllllum plm pl plm

sure that the old man would help him to reach his ship; he might even
plum plum plm plm plm pluum plum plm pl pllum plm plum; pl pluum plum

assist him in his scheme of getting Marion from the island.
plllum plm pl plm plllum pl plluuum Plllum plum plm plllum.




He would go to the councilor's. Having once decided, Nathaniel turned in
Pl pluum pl pl plm plllluuum'p. Pluuum plum pllllum, Pluuuuuum plllum pl

the direction of the town, avoiding the use of the path which he and
plm pllluuuum pl plm plum, pllluuum plm plm pl plm plum pllum pl plm

Obadiah had taken, but following in the forest near enough to use it as
Pllllum plm pluum, plm pllllluum pl plm pluuum plum plluum pl plm pl pl

a guide. He was confident that Arbor Croche and his sheriffs were
p pluum. Pl plm plllluuum plum Pllum Plluum plm plm plllluum plum

confining their man-hunt to the swamp, but in spite of this belief he
pllllllum pluum plm-plum pl plm pllum, plm pl pllum pl plum pluuum pl

exercised extreme caution, stopping to listen now and then, with one
plluuuuum plluuum pluuuum, pllluuum pl plllum plm plm plum, plum plm

hand always near his pistol. A quiet gloom filled the forest and by the
plum plluum plum plm plllum. P pllum pllum plllum plm plllum plm pl plm

tree-tops he marked the going down of the sun. Nathaniel's ears ached
plum-plum pl plluum plm pllum plum pl plm plm. Pllluuuum'p plum pllum

with their strain of listening for the rumbling roar that would tell of
plum pllum plllum pl plllluuum plm plm plllluum plum plum pllum plum pl

Casey's attack on St. James.
Pllum'p plllum pl Pl. Pluum.




Suddenly he heard a crackling in the underbrush ahead of him, a sound
Plllllum pl pluum p pluuuuuum pl plm pluuuuuuum pllum pl plm, p pllum

that came not from the strain of listening for the rumbling roar and in
plum plum plm plum plm plllum pl pllllllum plm plm plllllum plum plm pl

a moment he had dodged into the concealment of the huge roots of an
p pluuum pl plm plllum plum plm plluuuuuuum pl plm plum pllum pl pl

overturned tree, drawn pistol in hand. Whatever object was approaching
plllluuuum plum, pllum plluum pl plum. Pluuuuum plllum plm pluuuuuuuum

came slowly, as if hesitating at each step--a cautious, stealthy
plum pluuum, pl pl pllluuuuum pl plum plum--p pllluuum, pluuuuum

advance, it struck Nathaniel, and he cocked his weapon. Directly in
pllluum, pl plluum Plllluuum, plm pl plllum plm plllum. Plllluum pl

front of him, half a stone's throw away, was a dense growth of hazel and
pllum pl plm, plum p pllum'p pluum plum, plm p pluum plllum pl pllum plm

he could see the tops of the slender bushes swaying. Twice this movement
pl pllum plm plm plum pl plm pllluum pluuum plluuum. Pluum plum plllluum

ceased and the second time there came a crashing of brush and a faint
pluuum plm plm plllum plum pluum plum p pllluuum pl pllum plm p pllum

cry. For many minutes after that there was absolute silence. Was it the
plm. Plm plum pllllum pllum plum pluum plm pluuuuum pluuuum. Plm pl plm

cry of an animal that he had heard--or of a man? In either case the
plm pl pl plllum plum pl plm pluum--pl pl p plm? Pl pluuum plum plm

creature who made it had fallen in the thicket and was lying there as
plllluum plm plum pl plm plllum pl plm pllluum plm plm pllum pluum pl

still as if dead. For a quarter of an hour Nathaniel waited and
pllum pl pl plum. Plm p pllllum pl pl plum Pllllluum pluuum plm

listened. He could no longer have seen the movement of bushes in the
plllllum. Pl pluum pl pluuum plum plum plm plllluum pl plluum pl plm

gathering night-gloom of the forest but his ears were strained to catch
pllllluum pluum-pluum pl plm plluum plm plm plum plum plllluum pl pluum

the slightest sound from the direction of the mysterious thing that lay
plm plllluuum pluum plum plm pllllllum pl plm pllluuuuum pluum plum plm

within less than a dozen rods of him. Slowly he drew himself out from
pluuum plum plum p pllum plum pl plm. Plluum pl plum pllluum plm plum

the shelter of the roots and advanced step by step. Half way to the
plm pllllum pl plm pllum plm plllluum plum pl plum. Plum plm pl plm

thicket a stick cracked loudly under his foot and as the sound startled
pllllum p pluum pllllum pluuum pllum plm plum plm pl plm pluum plluuuum

the dead quiet of the forest with pistol-shot clearness there came
plm plum pllum pl plm plllum plum plluum-plum pluuuuuum pllum plum

another cry from the dense hazel, a cry which was neither that of man
pluuuum plm plum plm pluum pluum, p plm pluum plm pluuuum plum pl plm

nor animal but of a woman; and with an answering shout Nathaniel sprang
plm pluuum plm pl p pluum; plm plum pl pllllllum pluum Pllllllum pluuum

forward to meet there in the edge of the thicket the white face and
pluuuum pl plum pluum pl plm plum pl plm pllluum plm pluum plum plm

outstretched arms of Marion. The girl was swaying on her feet. In her
plllllluuuum plum pl Plllum. Plm plum plm plluuum pl plm plum. Pl plm

face there was a pallor that even in his instant's glance sent a chill
plum pluum plm p plllum plum plum pl plm pllllum'p plluum plum p pllum

of horror through the man and as she staggered toward him, half falling,
pl plllum pluuuum plm plm plm pl plm pluuuuuum plllum plm, plum pluuuum,

her lips weakly forming his name Nathaniel leaped to her and caught her
plm plum plluum pllllum plm plum Pllllluum plllum pl plm plm pluuum plm

close in his arms. In that moment something seemed to burst within him
pllum pl plm plum. Pl plum pluuum plllluuum pluuum pl pluum pluuum plm

and flood his veins with fire. Closer he held the girl, and heavier he
plm pllum plm pluum plum plum. Pluuum pl plum plm plum, plm pllllum pl

knew that she was becoming in his arms. Her head was upon his breast,
plum plum plm plm pllluuum pl plm plum. Plm plum plm plum plm plllum,

his face was crushed in her hair, he felt her throbbing and breathing
plm plum plm pluuuum pl plm plum, pl plum plm plllluuum plm plllluuum

against him and his lips quivered with the words that were bursting for
pllluum plm plm plm plum plllluum plum plm pllum plum plum pllluuum plm

freedom in his soul. But first there came the girl's own whispered
pluuuum pl plm plum. Plm pllum pllum plum plm plum'p plm pllllllum

breath--"Neil--where is Neil?"
pluuum--"Plum--pllum pl Plum?"




"He is gone--gone from the island!"
"Pl pl plum--plum plum plm pluuum!"




She had become a dead weight now and so he knelt on the ground with her,
Plm plm plllum p plum pluuum plm plm pl pl pllum pl plm pluuum plum plm,

her head still upon his breast, her eyes closed, her arms fallen to her
plm plum pluum plum plm plllum, plm plum plllum, plm plum plluum pl plm

side. And as Nathaniel looked into the face from which all life seemed
plum. Plm pl Pluuuuuum pluuum plum plm plum plum pluum plm plum plluum

to have fled he forgot everything but the joy of this moment--forgot all
pl plum plum pl plllum plllluuuum plm plm plm pl plum plluum--pluuum plm

in life but this woman against his breast. He kissed her soft mouth and
pl plum plm plum pllum plluuum plm plllum. Pl plllum plm plum pllum plm

the closed eyes until the eyes themselves opened again and gazed at him
plm plllum plum pllum plm plum pllluuuuum plluum pllum plm pluum pl plm

in a startled, half understanding way, until he drew his head far back
pl p plllluum, plum plluuuuuuuuum plm, pluum pl plum plm plum plm plum

with the shame of what he had dared to do flaming in his face.
plum plm pluum pl plum pl plm pluum pl pl pllluum pl plm plum.




And as for another moment he held her thus, feeling the quivering life
Plm pl plm pluuuum plluum pl plum plm plum, pllluum plm pllllllum plum

returning in her, there came to him through that vast forest stillness
pllllllum pl plm, pluum plum pl plm pllluum plum plum pluuum pllllluum

the distant deep-toned thunder of a great gun.
plm plluuum plum-pluum pluuuum pl p pllum plm.




"That's Casey!" he whispered close down to the girl's face. His voice
"Plum'p Pluum!" pl pllluuuum pllum plum pl plm plum'p plum. Plm pllum

was almost sobbing in its happiness. "That's Casey--firing on St.
plm pluuum pllluum pl plm plluuuuum. "Plum'p Pllum--plluum pl Pl.

James!"
Pluum!"













CHAPTER VII
PLLLUUM PLM




THE HOUR OF VENGEANCE
PLM PLUM PL PLUUUUUUM







For perhaps twenty seconds after the last echoes of the gun had rolled
Plm plluuum pluuum pluuuum pllum plm plum plllum pl plm plm plm plluum

through the forest the girl lay passive in Nathaniel's arms, so close
plluuum plm plllum plm plum plm pllllum pl Plllluuum'p plum, pl pllum

that he could feel her heart beating against his own and her breath
plum pl pllum plum plm pllum pllluum pluuuum plm plm plm plm pluuum

sweeping his face. Then there came a pressure against his breast, a
plllluum plm plum. Plum pllum plum p plllllum pluuuum plm pluuum, p

gentle resistance of Marion's half conscious form, and when she had
plluum pllluuuuum pl Pluuum'p plum plluuuuum plum, plm plum plm plm

awakened from her partial swoon he was holding her in the crook of his
plluuuum plum plm pllllum pllum pl plm pllllum plm pl plm pllum pl plm

arm. It had all passed quickly, the girl had rested against him only so
plm. Pl plm plm plluum pluuuum, plm plum plm pluuum pllluum plm plum pl

long as he might have held half a dozen breaths and yet there had been
plum pl pl pllum plum plum plum p pluum pllllum plm plm pluum plm plum

all of a lifetime in it for Nathaniel Plum, a cycle of joy that he knew
plm pl p plllluum pl pl plm Pluuuuuum Plum, p pllum pl plm plum pl plum

would remain with him for ever. But there was something bitter-sweet in
pluum pluuum plum plm plm plum. Plm pluum plm pllllluum plllum-pluum pl

the thought that she was conscious of what he had done, something of
plm pluuuum plum plm plm plluuuuum pl plum pl plm plum, pllluuuum pl

humiliation as well as gladness, and still not enough of the first to
pluuuuuuuum pl plum pl pluuuuum, plm pllum plm plllum pl plm pluum pl

make him regret that he had kissed her, that he had kissed her mouth and
plum plm plluum plum pl plm plluum plm, plum pl plm plluum plm pluum plm

her eyes. He loved her, and he was glad that in those passing moments he
plm plum. Pl pllum plm, plm pl plm plum plum pl pluum pllllum pllluum pl

had betrayed himself. For the first time he noticed that her face was
plm pluuuuum pllluum. Plm plm pluum plum pl pluuuum plum plm plum plm

scratched and that the sleeves of her thin waist were torn to shreds;
pluuuuuum plm plum plm pluuuum pl plm plum pllum plum plum pl plluum;

and as she drew away from him, steadying herself with a hand on his arm,
plm pl plm plum plum plum plm, pllllluum pllluum plum p plum pl plm plm,

his lips were parched of words, and yet he leaned to her eagerly,
plm plum plum pllluum pl pluum, plm plm pl plluum pl plm plluuum,

everything that he would have said burning in the love of his eyes.
pllllluuum plum pl pllum plum plum pluuuum pl plm plum pl plm plum.

Still irresolute in her faintness the girl smiled at him, and in that
Pllum pllluuuuum pl plm pllluuuum plm plum plluum pl plm, plm pl plum

smile there was gentle accusation, the sweetness of forgiveness, and
pluum pllum plm plluum pluuuuuuum, plm plllluuum pl pluuuuuuuum, plm

measureless gratitude, and it was yet light enough for him to see that
pllluuuuuum pllluuuum, plm pl plm plm pluum plluum plm plm pl plm plum

with these there had come also a flush into her cheeks and a dazzling
plum pllum pluum plm plum plum p pllum plum plm plluum plm p pllluuum

glow into her eyes.
plum plum plm plum.




"Neil has escaped!" she breathed. "And you--"
"Plum plm pluuuum!" plm pluuuuum. "Plm plm--"




"I was going back to you, Marion!" He spoke the words hardly above a
"P plm pllum plum pl plm, Pluuum!" Pl pllum plm pluum plllum pluum p

whisper. The beautiful eyes so close to him drew his secret from him
pllluum. Plm plllluuum plum pl pluum pl plm plum plm plllum plum plm

before he had thought. "I am going to take you from the island!"
plllum pl plm plluuum. "P pl pllum pl plum plm plum plm pluuum!"




With his words there came again that sound of a great gun rolling from
Plum plm pluum pllum plum pllum plum pluum pl p pllum plm pllllum plum

the direction of St. James. With a frightened cry the girl staggered to
plm plllluuum pl Pl. Pllum. Plum p plllllluum plm plm plum pluuuuuum pl

her feet, and as she stood swaying unsteadily, her arms half reached to
plm plum, plm pl plm pluum plluuum plllllluum, plm plum plum pluuuum pl

him, Nathaniel saw only mortal dread in the whiteness of her face.
plm, Pluuuuuum plm plum pluuum pllum pl plm plllluuum pl plm plum.




"Why didn't you go? Why didn't you go with Neil?" she moaned. Her breath
"Plm plum'p plm pl? Plm plum'p plm pl plum Plum?" plm plllum. Plm pluuum

was coming in sobbing excitement. "Your ship is--at--St. James!"
plm plllum pl pllluum pllllluuum. "Plum plum pl--pl--Pl. Pluum!"




"Yes, my ship is at St. James, Marion!" His voice was tremulous with
"Plm, pl plum pl pl Pl. Pllum, Plluum!" Plm pluum plm pllllllum plum

triumph, with gladness, with a tenderness which he could not control. He
pllllum, plum pluuuuum, plum p plluuuuuum pllum pl pluum plm pllllum. Pl

put an arm half round her waist to support her trembling form and to his
plm pl plm plum pllum plm pllum pl pluuuum plm pllluuuum plum plm pl plm

joy she did not move away from him. His hand was buried in the richness
plm plm plm plm plum plum plum plm. Plm plum plm plllum pl plm pluuuuum

of her loose hair. He bent until his lips touched her silken tresses.
pl plm pluum plum. Pl plum pluum plm plum pluuuum plm plluum pllluum.

"Neil has told me everything--about you," he added softly. "My ship is
"Plum plm plum pl plllllluum--pllum plm," pl pluum plllum. "Pl plum pl

bombarding St. James, and I am going to take you from the island!"
plluuuuuum Pl. Pluum, plm P pl pluum pl plum plm plum plm plllum!"




Not until then did Marion free herself from his arm and then so gently
Plm pllum plum plm Pluuum plum pllluum plum plm plm plm plum pl plllum

that when she stood facing him he felt no reproof. No longer did shame
plum plum plm pluum plluum plm pl plum pl pllllum. Pl plllum plm pluum

send a flush into his face. He had spoken his love, though not in words,
plum p pllum plum plm plum. Pl plm plllum plm plum, plllum plm pl pluum,

and he knew that the girl understood him. It did not occur to him in
plm pl plum plum plm plum plluuuuuum plm. Pl plm plm pllum pl plm pl

these moments that he had known this girl for only a few hours, that
pluum pluuuum plum pl plm pluum plum plum plm plum p plm pllum, plum

until now a word had never passed between them. He was conscious only
pllum plm p plum plm pllum plluum plluuum plum. Pl plm pllllluum plum

that he had loved her from the time he saw her through the king's
plum pl plm pluum plm plum plm plum pl plm plm pluuuum plm plum'p

window, that he had risked his life for her, and that she knew why he
plluum, plum pl plm plllum plm plum plm plm, plm plum plm plum plm pl

had leaped into the arena at the whipping-post.
plm plllum plum plm pllum pl plm plllluum-plum.




The words she spoke now came like a dash of cold water in his face.
Plm pluum plm pluum plm plum plum p plum pl plum pluum pl plm plum.




"Your ship is not bombarding St. James, Captain Plum!" she exclaimed.
"Plum plum pl plm plllllllum Pl. Pllum, Pllluum Plum!" plm pllluuuum.

Darkness hid the terror in her face but he could hear the tremble of it
Plllllum plm plm pluuum pl plm plum plm pl pluum plum plm pllluum pl pl

in her voice. "The _Typhoon_ has been captured by the Mormons and those
pl plm pllum. "Plm pLllluuum plm plum pllluuum pl plm Pluuuum plm pllum

guns are--guns of triumph--and not--" She caught her breath in a
plum plm--plum pl pluuuum--plm plm--" Plm plluum plm plluum pl p

convulsive sob. "I want you to go--I want you to go--with Neil!" she
pllllluuum plm. "P plum plm pl pl--P plum plm pl pl--plum Plum!" plm

pleaded.
pluuuum.




"So Casey is taken!"
"Pl Pllum pl pllum!"




He spoke slowly, as if he had not heard her last words. For a moment he
Pl pllum plluum, pl pl pl plm plm pluum plm plum pluum. Plm p plluum pl

stood silent, and as silently the girl stood and watched him. She
pllum plllum, plm pl plllllum plm plum pllum plm plluuum plm. Plm

guessed the despair that was raging in his heart but when he spoke to
pllluum plm pllllum plum plm plllum pl plm pllum plm plum pl pluum pl

her she could detect none of it in his voice.
plm plm pluum pluuum plum pl pl pl plm pluum.




"Casey is a fool," he said, unconsciously repeating Obadiah's words.
"Pllum pl p plum," pl plum, pllllllluuuum plluuuuum Pluuuum'p pllum.

"Marion, will you come with me? Will you leave the island--and join your
"Plllum, plum plm plum plum pl? Plum plm pllum plm plllum--plm plum plum

brother?"
pllllum?"




The hope that had risen in his heart was crushed as Marion drew farther
Plm plum plum plm pllum pl plm pluum plm pllllum pl Plllum plum pllllum

away from him.
plum plum plm.




"You must go alone," she replied. With a powerful effort she steadied
"Plm plum pl pllum," plm pllluum. Plum p plluuuum plluum plm plllluum

her voice. "Tell Neil that he has been condemned to death. Tell him
plm pllum. "Plum Plum plum pl plm plum pllluuuum pl pllum. Plum plm

that--if he loves me--he will not return to the island."
plum--pl pl pluum pl--pl plum plm plllum pl plm plllum."




"And I?"
"Plm P?"




From her distance she saw his arms stretched like shadows toward her.
Plum plm pllluuum plm plm plm plum pluuuuuum plum pluuuum pluuum plm.




"And you--"
"Plm plm--"




Her voice was low, so low that he could hardly hear the words she spoke,
Plm pllum plm plm, pl plm plum pl pllum pluuum plum plm pluum plm pllum,

but its sweetness thrilled him.
plm plm pllllluum plluuuum plm.




"And you--if you love me--will do this thing for me. Go to Neil. Save
"Plm plm--pl plm plum pl--plum pl plum pllum plm pl. Pl pl Plum. Plum

his life for me!"
plm plum plm pl!"




She had come to him through the gloom, and in the luster of the eyes
Plm plm plum pl plm plluuum plm pluum, plm pl plm plllum pl plm plum

that were turned up to him Nathaniel saw again the power that swayed his
plum plum plluum pl pl plm Plllluuum plm pluum plm pllum plum plluum plm

soul.
plum.




"You will go?"
"Plm plum pl?"




"I will save your brother--if I can!"
"P plum plum plum pllluum--pl P plm!"




"You can--you can--" she breathed. In an ecstasy of gratitude she seized
"Plm plm--plm plm--" plm plllluum. Pl pl pluuuum pl pluuuuuum plm pluuum

one of his hands in both her own. "You can save him!"
plm pl plm pllum pl plum plm plm. "Plm plm plum plm!"




"For you--I will try."
"Plm plm--P plum plm."




"For me--"
"Plm pl--"




She was so close that he could feel the throbbing of her bosom. Suddenly
Plm plm pl pllum plum pl pllum plum plm pllllluum pl plm pluum. Plllluum

he lifted his free hand and brushed back the thick hair from her brow
pl plluum plm plum plum plm pluuuum plum plm pllum plum plum plm plum

and turned her face until what dim light there still remained of the day
plm plluum plm plum pllum plum plm pluum pluum pluum plllluum pl plm plm

glowed in the beauty of her eyes. "I will keep him from the island if I
pluuum pl plm plluum pl plm plum. "P plum plum plm plum plm plluum pl P

can," he said, looking deep into them, "and as there is a God in Heaven
plm," pl plum, plluuum plum plum plum, "plm pl pluum pl p Plm pl Pluuum

I swear that you--"
P pllum plum plm--"




"What?" she urged, as he hesitated.
"Plum?" plm pllum, pl pl pllllllum.




"That you shall not marry Strang!" he finished.
"Plum plm pluum plm pllum Plllum!" pl pluuuuum.




A cry welled up in the girl's throat. Was it of gladness? Was it of
P plm plllum pl pl plm plum'p plluum. Plm pl pl plllllum? Plm pl pl

hope? She sprang back a pace from Nathaniel and with clenched hands
plum? Plm pluuum plum p plum plum Pllllluum plm plum pllluuum pluum

waited breathlessly, as if she expected him to say more.
plllum plllllllllum, pl pl plm pllluuum plm pl plm plum.




"No--no--you can not save me from Strang! Now--you must go!"
"Pl--pl--plm plm plm plum pl plum Plllum! Plm--plm plum pl!"




She retreated slowly in the direction of the path. In an instant
Plm plllluuum pluuum pl plm plluuuuum pl plm plum. Pl pl pluuuum

Nathaniel was at her side.
Pllllluum plm pl plm plum.




"I am going to see you safely back in St. James," he declared. "Then I
"P pl pllum pl plm plm plllum plum pl Pl. Pluum," pl plllllum. "Plum P

will go to your brother."
plum pl pl plum pllluum."




She barred his way defiantly.
Plm pluuum plm plm pluuuuuum.




"You can not go!"
"Plm plm plm pl!"




"Why?"
"Plm?"




"Because--" He caught the frightened flutter of her voice again.
"Pllllum--" Pl plllum plm pllllluuum pllluum pl plm pllum pluum.

"Because--they will kill you!"
"Plluuum--plum plum plum plm!"




The low laugh that he breathed in her hair was more of joy than fear.
Plm plm pllum plum pl plluuuum pl plm plum plm plum pl plm plum plum.




"I am glad you care--Marion." He spoke her name with faltering
"P pl plum plm plum--Plllum." Pl pluum plm plum plum pllllllum

tenderness, and led her out into the path.
pllllluuum, plm plm plm plm plum plm plum.




"You must go," she still persisted.
"Plm plum pl," plm pluum pllllluum.




"With you--yes," he answered.
"Plum plm--plm," pl plllllum.




She surrendered to the determination in his voice and they moved slowly
Plm plllllluuum pl plm pluuuuuuuuuum pl plm pllum plm plum pllum plllum

along the path, listening for any sound that might come from ahead of
pluum plm plum, plluuuuum plm plm pluum plum pluum plum plum pluum pl

them. Nathaniel had already formed his plan of action. From Marion's
plum. Plluuuuum plm pllllum pluuum plm plum pl pluuum. Plum Plluum'p

words and the voice in which she had uttered them he knew that it would
pllum plm plm pluum pl pluum plm plm plluuum plum pl plum plum pl pluum

be useless for him as it had been for Neil to urge her to flee from the
pl pluuuum plm plm pl pl plm plum plm Plum pl plum plm pl plum plum plm

island. There remained but one thing for him to do, so he fell back upon
plluum. Pllum plllluum plm plm pluum plm plm pl pl, pl pl plum plum plum

the scheme which he had proposed to Marion's brother. He realized now
plm plluum pluum pl plm pllluuum pl Plluum'p plluuum. Pl plllllum plm

that he might be compelled to play the game single-handed unless he
plum pl pllum pl plluuuuum pl plum plm plum plllum-pluuum pluuum pl

could secure assistance from Obadiah. His ship and men were in the hands
pluum plllum pllllluuum plum Pllllum. Plm plum plm plm plum pl plm pluum

of the Mormons; Neil, in his search for the captured vessel, stood a
pl plm Pluuuum; Plum, pl plm plllum plm plm plluuuum plllum, pluum p

large chance, of missing him that night, and in that event Marion's fate
pllum plluum, pl pluuuum plm plum pluum, plm pl plum pluum Plllum'p plum

would depend on him alone. If he could locate a small boat on the beach
pllum plllum pl plm pluum. Pl pl pllum plllum p pluum plum pl plm pluum

back of Obadiah's; if he could in some way lure Marion to it--He gave an
plum pl Pluuuum'p; pl pl pllum pl plum plm plum Plllum pl pl--Pl plum pl

involuntary shudder at the thought of using force upon the girl at his
plllllluuum pluuuum pl plm pluuuum pl pluum pllum plum plm plum pl plm

side, at the thought of her terror of those first few moments, her
plum, pl plm pllllum pl plm plllum pl pluum pllum plm pllllum, plm

struggles, her broken confidence. She believed in him now. She believed
pllllllum, plm pluuum pllllluuum. Plm plluuuum pl plm plm. Plm pllluuum

that he loved her. She trusted him. The warm soft pressure of her hand
plum pl pllum plm. Plm plluuum plm. Plm plum plum plllllum pl plm plum

as it clung to his arm in the blackening gloom of the forest was
pl pl pluum pl plm plm pl plm pluuuuuuum pllum pl plm pluuum plm

evidence of that trust. She looked into his face anxiously, inquiringly
plluuuum pl plum pluum. Plm plluum plum plm plum pllluuuum, pllluuuuuum

when they stopped to listen, like a child who was sure of a stronger
plum plum plluuum pl plllum, plum p pllum plm plm plum pl p plluuuum

spirit at her side. She held her breath when he held his, she listened
plllum pl plm plum. Plm plum plm pluuum plum pl plum plm, plm plluuuum

when he listened, her feet fell with velvet stillness when he stepped
plum pl plllluum, plm plum plum plum plllum pluuuuuum plum pl pllluum

with caution. Her confidence in him was like a beautiful dream to
plum pllluum. Plm plllllluum pl plm plm plum p plluuuuum pluum pl

Nathaniel and he trembled when he pictured the destruction of it. After
Pluuuuuum plm pl pllluuum plum pl plllluum plm pllllllllum pl pl. Pluum

a little he reached over and as if by accident touched the hand that was
p plllum pl plluuum plum plm pl pl pl plluuuum plluuum plm plum plum plm

lying on his arm; he dared more after a moment, and drew the warm little
pluum pl plm plm; pl pluum plum pllum p pluuum, plm plum plm plum pluuum

fingers into his great strong palm and held them there, his soul
pllluum plum plm pluum pluuum plum plm plum plum pluum, plm plum

thrilled by their gentle submissiveness. And then in another breath
plllluum pl pllum plllum plllllllluuuum. Plm plum pl pllllum plllum

there came to still his joy a thought of the terrible power that chained
pluum plum pl pllum plm plm p pluuuum pl plm pllluuum pllum plum plluuum

this girl to the Mormon king. He longed to speak words of encouragement
plum plum pl plm Plllum plum. Pl plllum pl pllum pluum pl pluuuuuuuuuum

to her, to instil hope in her bosom, to ask her to confide in him the
pl plm, pl plluum plum pl plm pllum, pl plm plm pl pluuuum pl plm plm

secret of the shadow which hung over her, but the memory of what Neil
pluuum pl plm pluuum pllum plum plum plm, plm plm plllum pl plum Plum

had said to him held his lips closed.
plm plum pl plm plum plm plum plllum.




They had walked in silence for many minutes when the girl stopped.
Plum plm pluuum pl pllluum plm plum pluuuum plum plm plum pllllum.




"It is not very far now," she whispered. "You must go!"
"Pl pl plm plum plm plm," plm pllllllum. "Plm plum pl!"




"Only a little farther," he begged.
"Plum p pluuum pllllum," pl plluum.




She surrendered again, hesitatingly, and they went on, more slowly than
Plm pllluuuuuum pllum, plllllllluum, plm plum plum pl, plum plllum plum

before, until they came to where the path met the footway that led to
pluuum, pluum plum plum pl pllum plm plum plm plm pllllum plum plm pl

Obadiah's.
Pllllum'p.




"Now--now you _must_ go," whispered Marion again.
"Plm--plm plm plluum pl," pllluuuum Plllum pluum.




In this last moment Nathaniel crushed her hand against his breast, his
Pl plum plum plllum Plluuuuum plluuum plm plum pllllum plm plllum, plm

body throbbing with a wild tumult, and a half of what he had meant not
plum pllllllum plum p plum pluuum, plm p plum pl plum pl plm pllum plm

to say fell passionately from his lips.
pl plm plum pluuuuuuuuum plum plm plum.




"Forgive me for--that--back there--Marion," he whispered. "It was
"Plluuum pl plm--plum--plum pluum--Pluuum," pl pluuuuuum. "Pl plm

because I love you--love you--" He freed her hand and stood back,
plluuum P plum plm--plum plm--" Pl pllum plm plum plm pluum plum,

choking the words that would have revealed his secret. He lied now for
pllllum plm pllum plum pluum plum plluuuum plm pluuum. Pl plum plm plm

the love of this girl. "Neil is out there waiting for me in a small
plm plum pl plum plum. "Plum pl plm pluum pllllum plm pl pl p pllum

boat," he continued, pointing beyond Obadiah's to the lake. "I will see
plum," pl pllllllum, plllluum pluuum Pllllum'p pl plm plum. "P plum plm

him soon, and then I will return to Obadiah's to tell you if he has left
plm plum, plm plum P plum plluum pl Pluuuum'p pl plum plm pl pl plm plum

for the mainland. Will you promise to meet me there--to-night?"
plm plm plluuuum. Plum plm plluuum pl plum pl pllum--pl-pluum?"




"I will promise."
"P plum plluuum."




"At midnight--"
"Pl plluuuum--"




"Yes, at twelve o'clock."
"Plm, pl plllum p'pllum."




This time it was Marion who came to him. Her eyes shone like stars.
Plum plum pl plm Plllum plm plum pl plm. Plm plum pllum plum pluum.




"And if you make Neil go to the mainland," she said softly, "when I meet
"Plm pl plm plum Plum pl pl plm pllluuum," plm plum plllum, "plum P plum

you I will--will tell you--something."
plm P plum--plum plum plm--pllllluum."




The last word came in a breathless sob. As she slipped into the path
Plm plum plum plum pl p plluuuuuum plm. Pl plm pluuuum plum plm plum

that led to St. James she paused for a moment and called back, in a low
plum plm pl Pl. Pluum plm pluuum plm p plllum plm pluuum plum, pl p plm

voice, "Tell Neil that he must go for Winnsome's sake. Tell him that her
pluum, "Plum Plum plum pl plum pl plm Plllluum'p plum. Plum plm plum plm

fate is shortly to be as cruel as mine--tell him that Winnsome loves
plum pl pllluum pl pl pl pluum pl plum--plum plm plum Plllluum pluum

him, and that she will escape and come to him on the mainland. Tell him
plm, plm plum plm plum plluum plm plum pl plm pl plm plluuuum. Plum plm

to go--go!"
pl pl--pl!"




She turned again, and Nathaniel stood like a statue, hardly breathing,
Plm pluuum pluum, plm Pllllllum pluum plum p pluuum, pluuum plllluuum,

until the sound of her feet had died away. Then he walked swiftly up
pllum plm pllum pl plm plum plm plum plum. Plum pl plllum pllllum pl

the foot-path that led to Obadiah's. He forgot his own danger in the
plm plum-plum plum plm pl Pllluum'p. Pl plluum plm plm plluum pl plm

excitement that pulsated with every fiber of his being, forgot his old
pllllluuum plum plluuuum plum pluum pluum pl plm pllum, plluum plm plm

caution and the fears that gave birth to it--forgot everything in those
pllluum plm plm pluum plum plum pluum pl pl--plllum pllllluuum pl pluum

moments but Marion and his own great happiness. Neil's absence meant
pluuuum plm Plllum plm plm plm pllum pllluuuum. Plum'p pluuuum pluum

nothing to him now. He had held Marion in his arms, he had told her of
pllllum pl plm plm. Pl plm plum Plllum pl plm plum, pl plm plum plm pl

his love, and though she had accepted it with gentle unresponsiveness he
plm plum, plm plluum plm plm pllluuum pl plum plluum pllluuuuuuuuuuum pl

was thrilled by the memory of that last look in her eyes, which had
plm plllluum pl plm pluuum pl plum plum plum pl plm plum, pllum plm

spoken faith, confidence, and perhaps even more. What was that
plluum pllum, plllluuuum, plm plluuum plum plum. Plum plm plum

_something_ she would tell him if he got Neil safely away? It was to be
pllllllluum plm pluum plum plm pl pl plm Plum plllum plum? Pl plm pl pl

a reward for his own loyalty--he knew that, by the half fearing tremble
p plllum plm plm plm pllllum--pl plum plum, pl plm plum plluuum plluuum

of her voice, the sobbing catch of her breath, the strange glow in her
pl plm pllum, plm pllllum pluum pl plm plllum, plm pluuuum plum pl plm

eyes. With her brother away would she confide in him? Would she tell him
plum. Plum plm pluuuum plum pluum plm pluuuum pl plm? Pluum plm plum plm

the secret of her slavedom to Strang? Nathaniel was conscious of no
plm plllum pl plm pluuuuum pl Pluuum? Pllllllum plm pluuuuuum pl pl

madness in the wild hope that filled him; nothing seemed impossible to
plluuum pl plm plum plum plum plluum plm; pllluum pluuum pllllluuum pl

him now. Marion would meet him at midnight. She would go with him to the
plm plm. Plllum pluum plum plm pl pllluuum. Plm pluum pl plum plm pl plm

boat, and then--ah, he had solved the problem! He would use no force. He
plum, plm plum--pl, pl plm plluum plm pllluum! Pl pllum plm pl pluum. Pl

would tell her that Neil was in his canoe half a mile out from the shore
pllum plum plm plum Plum plm pl plm pluum plum p plum plm plum plm pllum

and that he had promised to leave the island for good if she would go
plm plum pl plm plllllum pl pllum plm plllum plm plum pl plm pllum pl

out to bid him good-by. And once there, a half a mile or a mile away, he
plm pl plm plm plum-pl. Plm plum pllum, p plum p plum pl p plum plum, pl

would tell her that he had lied to her; and he would give her his heart
pluum plum plm plum pl plm plum pl plm; plm pl pllum plum plm plm pluum

to trample upon to prove the love that had made him do this thing, and
pl pllllum plum pl pllum plm plum plum plm plum plm pl plum pluum, plm

then he would row her to the mainland.
plum pl pllum plm plm pl plm pluuuuum.




It was the sight of Obadiah's cabin that brought his caution back. He
Pl plm plm pllum pl Pllllum'p pluum plum pluuuum plm pllluum plum. Pl

came upon it so suddenly that an exclamation of surprise fell unguarded
plum plum pl pl plllllum plum pl plllllluuum pl pllluuum plum pllluuuum

from his lips. There was no light to betray life within. He tried the
plum plm plum. Pllum plm pl pluum pl plluum plum pluuum. Pl pllum plm

door and found it locked. He peered in at the windows, listened, and
plum plm pllum pl plluum. Pl plllum pl pl plm pluuuum, plluuuum, plm

knocked, and at last concealed himself near the path, confident that the
plluuum, plm pl plum pluuuuuum plluuum plum plm plum, plllluuum plum plm

little old councilor was still at St. James. For an hour he waited. From
plllum plm plluuuuum plm pllum pl Pl. Pllum. Plm pl plum pl plllum. Plum

the rear of Obadiah's home a narrow footway led toward the lake and
plm plum pl Plluuum'p plum p plluum pllllum plm pluuum plm plum plm

Nathaniel followed it, now as warily as an animal in search of prey. For
Pllllllum plluuuum pl, plm pl pluuum pl pl pluuum pl plllum pl plum. Plm

half a mile it took him through the forest and ended at the white sands
plum p plum pl plum plm pllluum plm plllum plm pluum pl plm pluum pllum

of the beach. In neither direction could Nathaniel see a light, and
pl plm pluum. Pl pllllum plllluuum pluum Pllllluum plm p pluum, plm

keeping close in the shadows of the trees he made his way slowly toward
pllllum pllum pl plm pllluum pl plm pluum pl plum plm plm plllum plluum

St. James. He had gone but a short distance when he saw a house directly
Pl. Pllum. Pl plm plum plm p pllum plllllum plum pl plm p pllum plluuuum

ahead of him, a single gleam of light from a small window telling him
pluum pl plm, p pluuum pluum pl pllum plum p pllum plllum plluuum plm

that it was inhabited and that its tenants were at home. He circled down
plum pl plm plllluuum plm plum plm pllllum plum pl plum. Pl pllluum plum

close to the water looking for a boat. His heart leaped with sudden
pllum pl plm pluum plluuum plm p plum. Plm pllum plluum plum pluuum

exultation when he saw a small skiff drawn upon the beach and his joy
plllllllum plum pl plm p pluum pllum pllum plum plm pluum plm plm plm

was doubled at finding the oars still in the locks. It took him but a
plm pllllum pl pllluum plm plum pluum pl plm pluum. Pl plum plm plm p

moment to shove the light craft into the sea and a minute later he was
pluuum pl pllum plm pluum pluum plum plm plm plm p plllum pllum pl plm

rowing swiftly away from the land.
plluum pllllum plum plum plm plum.




Nathaniel was certain that by this time Neil had abandoned his search
Pluuuuuum plm plluuum plum pl plum plum Plum plm pllllluum plm pluuum

for the captured _Typhoon_ and was probably paddling in the direction
plm plm pllluuum pLuuuuuum plm plm plluuuum plllluum pl plm plllluuum

of St. James. With the hope of intercepting him he pulled an eighth of a
pl Pl. Pluum. Plum plm plum pl plluuuuuuuum plm pl plluum pl plllum pl p

mile from the shore and rowed slowly toward the head of the island.
plum plum plm pllum plm pluum plllum plluum plm plum pl plm pluuum.

There was no moon, but countless stars glowed in a clear sky and upon
Pluum plm pl plum, plm pllllluum pluum pluuum pl p pllum plm plm plum

the open lake Nathaniel could see for a considerable distance about him.
plm plum plum Plluuuuum pllum plm plm p plllllluuuum pllluuum pllum plm.

For another hour he rowed back and forth and then beached his boat
Plm pllluum plum pl pluum plum plm pluum plm plum pluuuum plm plum

within a dozen rods of the path that came down from Obadiah's.
plllum p pluum plum pl plm plum plum plum plum plum Pllluum'p.




It was ten o'clock. Two more hours! He had tried to suppress his
Pl plm plm p'pluum. Plm plum pluum! Pl plm pllum pl pluuuuum plm

excitement, his apprehensions, his eagerness, but now as he went back
pluuuuuuum, plm pllllllllllum, plm pluuuuuum, plm plm pl pl plum plum

into the darkness of the forest they burst out anew. What if Marion
plum plm plllluum pl plm plllum plum pluum plm plum. Plum pl Plluum

should not keep the tryst? He thought of the spies whom Neil had said
plllum plm plum plm pluum? Pl plluuum pl plm pluum plum Plum plm plum

guarded the girl's home--and of Obadiah. Could he trust the old
pluuuum plm plum'p plum--plm pl Plluuum. Pluum pl pllum plm plm

councilor? Should he confide his plot to him and ask his assistance? As
plllluuum? Plllum pl pllllum plm plum pl plm plm plm plm pllllluuum? Pl

the minutes passed and these thoughts recurred again and again in his
plm pllllum plllum plm pllum pllluuum plllluum pllum plm pllum pl plm

brain he could not keep the nervousness from growing within him. He was
pllum pl pluum plm plum plm pllllluuuum plum pllllum plluum plm. Pl plm

sure now that he would have to fight his battle without Neil. He saw
plum plm plum pl pluum plum pl pllum plm plllum pllllum Plum. Pl plm

the necessity of coolness, of judgment, and he began to demand these
plm pllluuuum pl pluuuuum, pl pluuuuum, plm pl pllum pl plluum pllum

things of himself, struggling sternly against those symptoms of weakness
plllum pl plluuum, pluuuuuuum pllllum pluuuum pllum plllluum pl pllluuum

which had replaced his confidence of a short time before. Gradually he
pllum plm plluuuum plm pluuuuuuum pl p pllum plum pluuum. Plluuuuum pl

fought himself back into his old faith. He would save Marion--without
plluum pllluum plum plum plm plm pllum. Pl pluum plum Pluuum--pluuuum

Neil, without Obadiah. If Marion did not come to him by midnight it
Plum, plluuum Plluuum. Pl Pluuum plm plm plum pl plm pl pllluuum pl

would be because of the guards against whom Neil had warned him, and he
pllum pl pllluum pl plm plluum pluuuum plum Plum plm plluum plm, plm pl

would go to her. In some way he would get her to the boat, even if he
pllum pl pl plm. Pl plum plm pl pluum plm plm pl plm plum, plum pl pl

had to fight his way through Arbor Croche's men.
plm pl pllum plm plm pluuuum Pllum Pluuum'p plm.




With this return of confidence Nathaniel's thoughts reverted to his
Plum plum pluuum pl plluuuuuum Plluuuuum'p pllluuum plllluum pl plm

present greatest need, which was food. Since early morning he had eaten
pllllum pluuuuum plum, pluum plm plum. Pluum pllum pllluum pl plm pllum

nothing and he began to feel the physical want in a craving that was
pluuuum plm pl pllum pl plum plm plluuuum plum pl p pllllum plum plm

becoming acutely uncomfortable. If Obadiah had not returned to his home
plluuuum plluuum plllluuuuuuum. Pl Pluuuum plm plm plluuuum pl plm plum

he made up his mind that he would find entrance to the cabin and help
pl plum pl plm plum plum pl pllum plum plllluum pl plm pllum plm plum

himself. A sudden turn in the path which he was following, however,
plluuum. P plllum plum pl plm plum pluum pl plm pllllllum, pllllum,

revealed one of the councilor's windows aglow with light, and as he
plllllum plm pl plm pllllluum'p pllluum pllum plum pluum, plm pl pl

pressed quietly around the end of the building the sound of a low voice
pluuuum pluuuum pluuum plm plm pl plm plllluum plm pllum pl p plm pllum

came to him through the open door. Cautiously he approached and peered
plum pl plm pllluum plm plum plum. Plllllllum pl pllllluuum plm pluuum

in. A large oil lamp, the light of which he had seen in the window, was
pl. P pluum plm plum, plm pluum pl pluum pl plm plum pl plm plllum, plm

burning on a table in the big room but the voice came from the little
plluuum pl p pluum pl plm plm plum plm plm pllum plum plum plm plluum

closet into which Obadiah had taken him the preceding night. For several
plllum plum pllum Pllllum plm pluum plm plm pllluuuum pluum. Plm pllluum

minutes he crouched and listened. He heard the chuckling laugh of the
pllluum pl pluuuuum plm pluuuuum. Pl pllum plm plluuuuum pluum pl plm

old councilor--and then an incoherent raving that set his blood
plm pllluuuum--plm plum pl plllllllum pluuum plum plm plm pluum

tingling. There is a horror in the sound of madness, a horror that
plluuuum. Pluum pl p plllum pl plm pluum pl pllluum, p plllum plum

creeps to the very pit of one's soul, that sends shivering dread from
plllum pl plm plum plm pl plm'p plum, plum pluum pllluuuum pllum plum

every nerve center, that causes one who is alone with it to sweat with a
pllum pllum plllum, plum plllum plm plm pl pllum plum pl pl pluum plum p

nameless fear. It was the voice of madness that came from that little
plllllum plum. Pl plm plm pllum pl plluuum plum plum plum plum plluum

room. Before it Nathaniel quailed as if a clammy hand had reached out
plum. Plllum pl Pllluuuum pluuuum pl pl p pluuum plum plm plluuum plm

from the darkness and gripped him by the throat. He drew back shivering
plum plm plllllum plm pllluum plm pl plm plluum. Pl plum plum pluuuuuum

in every limb, and the voice followed him, shrieking now in a sudden
pl pluum plum, plm plm pllum plllllum plm, plluuuuum plm pl p pluuum

burst of insane mirth and dying away a moment later in a hollow cackling
pluum pl pluuum pluum plm pllum plum p plllum pllum pl p pluuum plllllum

laugh that seemed to curdle the blood in his veins. Mad! Obadiah Price
pllum plum plluum pl plluum plm pllum pl plm pllum. Plm! Pllluum Pluum

was mad! Step by step Nathaniel fell back from the door. He felt himself
plm plm! Plum pl plum Pluuuuuum plum plum plum plm plum. Pl plum pllluum

trembling from head to foot. His heart thumped within his breast like
pllllluum plum plum pl plum. Plm pllum pllluum plluum plm plluum plum

the beating of a hammer. For an instant there was silence--a silence in
plm pllllum pl p plllum. Plm pl pllluum pluum plm pllllum--p pllllum pl

which strange dread held him breathless while he watched the glow in the
pluum plluuum pluum plum plm pllluuuuum pluum pl pllllum plm plum pl plm

door and listened. And after that quiet there came suddenly a cry that
plum plm pllluuum. Plm pllum plum pluum pllum plum pluuuuum p plm plum

ended in the exultant chattering of a name.
pllum pl plm plluuuum pllllluuum pl p plum.




At the sound of that name Nathaniel sprang forward again. It was
Pl plm pllum pl plum plum Pllllllum plllum pllluum pluum. Pl plm

Marion's name and he strained his ears to catch the words that might
Pluuum'p plum plm pl plllllum plm plum pl pllum plm pluum plum pluum

follow it. As he listened, his head thrust half in at the door,
plluum pl. Pl pl plllllum, plm plum pluuum plum pl pl plm plum,

Obadiah's voice became lower and lower, until at last it ceased
Plluuum'p pllum plluum pluum plm pllum, pllum pl plum pl plluum

entirely. Not a step, not a deep breath, not the movement of a hand
pluuuuum. Plm p plum, plm p plum plllum, plm plm plllllum pl p plum

disturbed the stillness of the little room. By inches Nathaniel drew
pllllluum plm plllluuum pl plm pluuum plum. Pl pluuum Pllllluum plum

himself inside the door. His heavy boot caught in a sliver on the step
pllluum plllum plm plum. Plm pllum plum plluum pl p plllum pl plm plum

but the rending of wood brought no response. It was the quiet of death
plm plm pluuuum pl plum pllllum pl pluuuuum. Pl plm plm pllum pl pluum

that pervaded the cabin, it was a strange, growing fear of death that
plum pllluuum plm pllum, pl plm p pllluum, pllllum plum pl pllum plum

entered Nathaniel as he now hurried across the room and peered through
plluuum Pllllluum pl pl plm pllllum plllum plm plum plm pluuum pllluum

the narrow aperture. The old councilor was half stretched upon the
plm plluum plluuuum. Plm plm pllllluum plm plum pllllluum plum plm

table, his arms reaching out, his long, thin fingers gripping its edges,
pluum, plm plum plluuuum plm, plm plum, plum pllllum plluuuum plm pllum,

his face buried under his shoulders. It looked as if death had come
plm plum plllum pllum plm plluuuuum. Pl plluum pl pl pllum plm plum

suddenly to him during some terrible convulsion, but after a moment
pluuuuum pl plm pluuum plum pluuuuum plllllluum, plm pluum p pluuum

Nathaniel saw that he was breathing. He went over and placed a hand on
Plllluuum plm plum pl plm pluuuuuum. Pl plum plum plm pluuum p plum pl

the old man's twisted back.
plm plm plm'p pluuuum plum.




"Hello, Obadiah! Hello--hello!" he called cheerfully.
"Pllum, Plluuum! Pluum--pluum!" pl plllum pluuuuuuum.




A shudder ran through the councilor's frame, as if the voice had
P plluuum plm plluuum plm pllllluum'p pllum, pl pl plm pluum plm

startled him, his arms and body stiffened and slowly he lifted his head.
plllluum plm, plm plum plm plum pllllllum plm pluuum pl pluuum plm plum.

Nathaniel tried to stifle the cry on his lips, tried to smile--to
Plluuuuum pluum pl plllum plm plm pl plm plum, pllum pl pluum--pl

speak, but the terrible face that stared up into his own held him
pllum, plm plm plluuuum plum plum plluum pl plum plm plm plum plm

silent, motionless. He had heard the voice of madness, now he looked
pluuum, plluuuuuum. Pl plm pluum plm pluum pl pllluum, plm pl plllum

upon madness in the eyes that glared at him. In them was no sign of
plum plluuum pl plm plum plum plluum pl plm. Pl plum plm pl plum pl

recognition, no passing flash of sanity. The white face was lined with
pllluuuuuum, pl plluuum pluum pl plluum. Plm pluum plum plm pllum plum

purplish veins, the mouth was distorted and the lips bleeding.
plllllum pllum, plm pluum plm pllllluum plm plm plum plllluum.

Involuntarily he stepped back to the end of the table.
Pluuuuuuuuuum pl plluuum plum pl plm plm pl plm pllum.




At his movement the councilor stretched out his arms with a sobbing
Pl plm plluuuum plm pluuuuuum pllluuuum plm plm plum plum p pluuuum

moan.
plum.




"Nat--Nat--don't--go--"
"Plm--Plm--plm'p--pl--"




He fell again upon his face, clutching the table in a sudden convulsion.
Pl plum pllum plum plm plum, pllllllum plm pllum pl p pluuum pllluuuuum.

In the next room Nathaniel had noticed a pail of water and he brought
Pl plm plum plum Plluuuuum plm plluuum p plum pl pllum plm pl pllluum

this and wet the old man's head. For a long time Obadiah did not move,
plum plm plm plm plm plm'p plum. Plm p plum plum Pluuuum plm plm plum,

and when he did it was to reach out with a groping hand to find
plm plum pl plm pl plm pl pllum plm plum p pllluum plum pl plum

Nathaniel. A change had come into his face when he lifted it again, the
Plluuuuum. P pluuum plm plum plum plm plum plum pl plllum pl pllum, plm

mad fire had partly burned itself out of his eyes, the old chuckling
plm plum plm plluum plluum pluuum plm pl plm plum, plm plm pllluuuum

laugh came from between his lips.
pllum plum plum pllluum plm plum.




"A little weakness, Nat--a little weakness," he gasped faintly. "I have
"P plllum plllluum, Plm--p pluuum plllluum," pl pluuum plluuum. "P plum

it now and then. Excitement--great excitement--" He straightened himself
pl plm plm plum. Plllllllum--pllum plllluuuum--" Pl pllllluuuuum pllllum

for a moment and stood, swaying free from the table, then collapsed into
plm p plllum plm pllum, pluuuum plum plum plm pluum, plum pluuuuuum plum

a chair his head dropping upon his breast.
p pllum plm plum pluuuuum plum plm plluum.




Without arousing him from the stupor into which he had fallen, Nathaniel
Pluuuum pluuuuum plm plum plm pluuum plum pluum pl plm plllum, Plluuuuum

again concealed himself in the shadows outside the cabin where he could
pllum plllluuum pllllum pl plm pllluum pllllum plm pluum pluum pl pluum

better guard himself against the possible approach of Mormon visitors.
plluum pllum pllluum pllllum plm plluuuum plluuuum pl Pluuum plllluum.

But he did not remain long. He struck a match and saw that it was nearly
Plm pl plm plm plluum plum. Pl plllum p pluum plm plm plum pl plm plluum

eleven and a sudden resolution turned him back to the cabin door. He
plllum plm p pluuum plluuuuuum pluuum plm plum pl plm pluum plum. Pl

believed that Obadiah would not easily arouse himself from the strange
plluuuum plum Pluuuum pllum plm plllum plluum plluuum plum plm pllllum

stupor into which he had fallen. Meanwhile he would find food and then
plluum plum pluum pl plm pluuum. Pllllluum pl pluum plum plum plm plum

conceal himself near the path to intercept Marion.
plluuum pluuuum plum plm plum pl plllluuum Plluum.




As he mounted the step he heard for the second time since landing upon
Pl pl plluuum plm plum pl pllum plm plm plllum plum pluum pluuuum plum

the island the solemn tolling of the great bell at St. James, and as he
plm pluuum plm pluuum pllllum pl plm pllum plum pl Pl. Pluum, plm pl pl

paused for an instant to listen, peal upon peal followed the first until
plllum plm pl plluuum pl plluum, plum plum plum pllluuum plm pllum pllum

its brazen thunder rolled in one long booming echo through the forests
plm pluuum pllluum plluum pl plm plum pllllum plum pllllum plm pluuuum

of the Mormon kingdom. There came a shrill cry at his back and he
pl plm Plllum pllllum. Pllum plum p plllum plm pl plm plum plm pl

whirled about to see the councilor standing in the center of the big
pllluum pluum pl plm plm plllluuum plllluum pl plm plllum pl plm plm

room, his arms outstretched, his face lifted as it had been raised in
plum, plm plum pluuuuuuuuum, plm plum plllum pl pl plm plum plluum pl

prayer at the tolling of that same bell the night before--but this time
pluuum pl plm pllluum pl plum plum plum plm pluum plluum--plm plum plum

it was not prayer that fell from his lips.
pl plm plm plllum plum plum plum plm plum.




"Nat, ye have returned in the hour of vengeance! The hand of God is
"Plm, pl plum pluuuuum pl plm plum pl pllluuuum! Plm plum pl Plm pl

descending upon the Mormon kingdom!"
pllllluuum plum plm Pluuum plluuum!"




His words came in a gasping, but triumphant cry.
Plm pluum plum pl p pllluum, plm pllllluuum plm.




"And to-morrow--to-morrow--" He stepped forward, his voice crooning a
"Plm pl-plluum--pl-plllum--" Pl pluuuum pllluum, plm pllum pllluuum p

wild joy, "To-morrow--I--shall--be--king!"
plum plm, "Pl-plllum--P--pllum--pl--plum!"




As he spoke the cabin trembled, a tremor passed under them, and the
Pl pl pluum plm pllum pllluuum, p pluuum plllum pllum plum, plm plm

tolling of the bell was lost in a sudden tumult that came like the
pllllum pl plm plum plm plum pl p plllum pluuum plum plum plum plm

bursting crash of low thunder.
plllllum pllum pl plm pllluum.




"What is it?" cried Nathaniel. He leaped into the room and caught
"Plum pl pl?" pllum Plluuuuum. Pl plluum plum plm plum plm plllum

Obadiah by the arm. "What is it?"
Pllluum pl plm plm. "Plum pl pl?"




"The hand of God!" whispered the old man again. "Nat--Nat--" It was his
"Plm plum pl Plm!" pllllluum plm plm plm pllum. "Plm--Plm--" Pl plm plm

old self that stood grimacing and twisting his hands before Nathaniel
plm plum plum pluum plllluuum plm pluuuuum plm pluum plluum Pluuuuuum

now. "Nat--a thousand armed men are off the coast! The Lamanites of the
plm. "Plm--p pllluuum pluum plm plm plm plm pluum! Plm Pllllluum pl plm

mainland are descending upon the Mormon kingdom as the hosts of Israel
plllllum plm pluuuuuuum plum plm Plluum pluuuum pl plm pllum pl Plllum

upon Canaan! Strang is doomed--doomed--doomed--and to-morrow I shall be
plum Pluuum! Plluum pl pluuum--plluum--plllum--plm pl-plllum P pllum pl

king!" His voice rose in a wailing shriek. He darted to the door and his
plum!" Plm pllum plum pl p plluuum plllum. Pl plluum pl plm plum plm plm

cackling laugh rang with the old madness as he pointed into the north
pluuuuum pluum plum plum plm plm pllllum pl pl plluuum plum plm pluum

where a lurid glow had mounted high into the sky.
pllum p pluum plum plm plluuum plum plum plm plm.




"The signal fire--the bell!" he gurgled chokingly. "They are calling the
"Plm plllum plum--plm plum!" pl plluuum plluuuuum. "Plum plm pluuuum plm

Mormons to arms--but it is too late--too late! Ho, ho, it is too late,
Pllluum pl plum--plm pl pl plm plum--plm plum! Pl, pl, pl pl plm plum,

Nat--too late!" He staggered back, gripping his throat, and fell upon
Plm--plm plum!" Pl pllllluum plum, plluuuum plm plllum, plm plum plum

the floor. "Too late--too late," he moaned, groveling weakly, as if
plm pluum. "Plm plum--plm plum," pl plluum, pllluuuum plluum, pl pl

struggling for breath. "Too late--Nat--Marion--"
plluuuuuum plm plllum. "Plm plum--Plm--Pluuum--"




A shiver passed through his body and he lay quite still.
P plluum plllum pllllum plm plum plm pl plm pluum pluum.













CHAPTER VIII
PLUUUUM PLUM




THE SIX CASTLE CHAMBERS
PLM PLM PLUUUM PLLLUUUM







In an instant Nathaniel was upon his knees beside the prostrate form of
Pl pl pllllum Pllllluum plm plum plm pluum pluuum plm pllllllum plum pl

the old councilor.
plm plm pllllluum.




Obadiah's eyes were open, but unseeing; his face was blanched to the
Pllluum'p plum plum plum, plm plllluum; plm plum plm plllluum pl plm

whiteness of paper; an almost imperceptible movement of his chest showed
pllllllum pl pllum; pl plluum plluuuuuuuuum plllllum pl plm pllum plllum

that he still breathed. Nathaniel lifted one of the limp hands and its
plum pl pllum pluuuuum. Pllllluum plllum plm pl plm plum pluum plm plm

clammy chill struck horror to his heart. Tenderly he lifted the old man
plllum pluum plllum plluum pl plm pluum. Pllluuum pl pluuum plm plm plm

and carried him to the cot at the end of the room. He loosened his
plm plluuum plm pl plm plm pl plm plm pl plm plum. Pl pllluuum plm

clothes, tore off the low collar about his throat, and felt with his
plluuum, plum plm plm plm pluuum pluum plm pluuum, plm plum plum plm

hand to measure the faint beating of life in the councilor's breast. For
plum pl pluuuum plm pllum pllllum pl plum pl plm plllluuum'p plllum. Plm

a few moments it seemed to grow fainter and fainter, and a choking lump
p plm pllluum pl plluum pl plum pllllum plm pluuuum, plm p plluuum plum

rose in his throat as he watched the pallor of death fixing itself on
plum pl plm pluuum pl pl pllluum plm plluum pl pllum plluum pluuum pl

the councilor's shriveled face. What strange chord of sympathy was it
plm pluuuuuum'p pllluuuum plum. Plum pllllum pluum pl plllllum plm pl

that bound him to this old man? Was it the same mysterious influence
plum pllum plm pl plum plm plm? Plm pl plm plum pluuuuuuum pluuuuuum

that had attracted Marion to him? He dropped upon his knees and called
plum plm pllllluum Plluum pl plm? Pl pllllum plum plm pluum plm plluum

the girl's name softly but it awakened no response in the sightless
plm plum'p plum plluum plm pl pluuuuum pl plllluum pl plm plllluuum

eyes, no tremor in the parted, unquivering lips. Very slowly as the
plum, pl plluum pl plm pluuum, plllllluuum plum. Plum pluuum pl plm

minutes passed there came a reaction. The pulsations of the weakened
plluuum pluuum pluum plum p pllluuum. Plm plllllluum pl plm pllluuum

heart became a little stronger, he could catch faintly the sound of
pllum plllum p plluum pllluuum, pl pluum pllum plluuum plm pllum pl

breath coming from between the old man's lips.
pluuum pluuum plum pllluum plm plm plm'p plum.




With a gasp of relief Nathaniel rose to his feet. Through the door he
Plum p plum pl pluuum Pllllluum plum pl plm plum. Plluuum plm plum pl

saw the red glare growing in the northern sky and heard the great bell
plm plm plm pllum plluuum pl plm plluuuum plm plm pluum plm pluum plum

at St. James ring a wilder and more excited alarm. For a few moments he
pl Pl. Pluum plum p plluum plm plum pllluum pllum. Plm p plm pluuuum pl

stood in silent, listening inaction, his nerves tingling with a strange
pllum pl plllum, pluuuuuum pllluuum, plm plllum plllllum plum p plluuum

sensation of impending peril. Obadiah's madness, the mysterious
pllluuuum pl plluuuuum pllum. Pllllum'p pllllum, plm plluuuuuum

trembling of the earth beneath his feet, the volcano of fire, the
pllllluum pl plm pluum pluuuum plm plum, plm pluuuum pl plum, plm

clanging of the bell and the councilor's insane rejoicing had all come
plllllum pl plm plum plm plm pllllluum'p plluum pluuuuuum plm plm plum

so suddenly that he was dazed. What great calamity, what fearful
pl pluuuuum plum pl plm pluum. Plum pllum plllluum, plum pllluum

vengeance, was about to come upon the Mormon kingdom? Was it possible
plllluuum, plm pluum pl plum plum plm Pluuum pllluum? Plm pl pllluuum

that the fishermen and settlers of the mainland had risen, as Obadiah
plum plm plllluuum plm plllluum pl plm plluuuum plm pllum, pl Plluuum

had said, and were already at hand to destroy Strang and his people? The
plm plum, plm plum plluuum pl plum pl pllluum Pluuum plm plm pluuum? Plm

thought spurred him to the door. The blood rushed like fire through his
plluuum plluuum plm pl plm plum. Plm pllum plllum plum plum pllllum plm

veins. What would it mean to Marion--to Neil?
pluum. Plum pllum pl plum pl Pluuum--pl Plum?




In his excitement he started down the path that led to the lilac hidden
Pl plm plllluuuum pl pllluum plum plm plum plum plm pl plm pluum plluum

home beyond the forest. Then he thought again of Obadiah and his last
plum plluum plm plluum. Plum pl pllllum pllum pl Pluuuum plm plm plum

choking utterance of Marion's name. He had tried to speak of her, even
pluuuum pllluuuum pl Pluuum'p plum. Pl plm pllum pl pluum pl plm, plum

with that death-like rattling of the breath in his throat; and the
plum plum pllum-plum plllluum pl plm plllum pl plm plllum; plm plm

memory of the old councilor's frantic struggle for words brought
plluum pl plm plm plllluuum'p pllllum plllluum plm pluum plluuum

Nathaniel quickly back to the cabin. He bent over Obadiah's shriveled
Pllllluum pluuuum plum pl plm pllum. Pl plum plum Pllluum'p pluuuuuum

form and spoke the girl's name again and again in his ears. There came
plum plm pluum plm plum'p plum pllum plm pluum pl plm plum. Pluum plum

no response, no quiver of life to show that the old man was conscious
pl plllllum, pl plllum pl plum pl plum plum plm plm plm plm pllluuuum

of his presence. As he worked over him, bathing his face and chest in
pl plm pllluuum. Pl pl plluum plum plm, plluuum plm plum plm pllum pl

cool water, the feeling became strong in him that he was fighting death
plum pluum, plm plluuum plluum pluuum pl plm plum pl plm plllluum pluum

in this gloomy room for Marion's sake. It was like the whispering of an
pl plum plluum plum plm Plllum'p plum. Pl plm plum plm plllllluum pl pl

invisible spirit in his ears--something more than presentiment,
plluuuuum plluum pl plm plum--pluuuuuum plum plum pllllllluuum,

something that made his own heart grow faint when death seemed winning
pluuuuuum plum plum plm plm pllum plum pluum plum pllum pluuum plluuum

in the struggle. His watchfulness was acute, intense, desperate. When,
pl plm plllluum. Plm plllllllllum plm pluum, pllllum, plluuuuum. Plum,

after a time, he straightened himself again, rewarded by Obadiah's more
pllum p plum, pl plllllllluum pllllum pllum, pllluuum pl Plluuum'p plum

regular breathing, the sweat stood in beads upon his face. He knew that
plluuum plluuuuum, plm pluum pluum pl pllum plum plm plum. Pl plum plum

he had triumphed. Obadiah would live, and Marion--
pl plm pllluuuum. Pllluum pluum plum, plm Plllum--




He placed his mouth close to the councilor's ear.
Pl pluuum plm pluum pluum pl plm pllllluum'p plm.




"Tell me about Marion," he said again. "Marion--Marion--Marion--"
"Plum pl pllum Pluuum," pl plum pllum. "Plluum--Plllum--Pluuum--"




He waited, stilling his own breath to catch the sound of a whisper. None
Pl pluuum, pllluuum plm plm plllum pl pllum plm pllum pl p pllluum. Plum

came. As he bent over him he saw through the open door that the red
plum. Pl pl plum plum plm pl plm plluuum plm plum plum plum plm plm

glare of fire had faded to a burnt out glow in the sky. In the deep
pluum pl plum plm pllum pl p pllum plm plum pl plm plm. Pl plm plum

silence the sullen beating of the bell seemed nearer, and he could hear
pluuuum plm plluum pllllum pl plm plum pluuum pluuum, plm pl pllum plum

the excited barking of dogs in St. James. Slowly the hope that Obadiah
plm pluuuum plluuum pl plum pl Pl. Pllum. Plllum plm plum plum Pllluum

might speak to him died away and he returned to the door. It still
pllum pluum pl plm plum plum plm pl plluuuum pl plm plum. Pl pluum

lacked an hour of midnight, when Marion, had promised to come to him. He
plluum pl plum pl plllllum, plum Plluum, plm plllllum pl plum pl plm. Pl

was wildly impatient and to his impatience was added the fear that had
plm plluum pllllllum plm pl plm plllluuuum plm pllum plm plum plum plm

filled him as he hovered over Obadiah, a nameless, intangible
plluum plm pl pl pllluum plum Plluuum, p plluuuum, plllluuuum

fear--something which he could not have analyzed and which clutched at
plum--plllluuum pllum pl pllum plm plum plllluum plm pllum pluuuuum pl

his heart and urged him to follow the path that led to Marion's. For a
plm pllum plm pluum plm pl plluum plm plum plum plm pl Pluuum'p. Plm p

time he resisted the impulse. What if she should come by another path
plum pl plluuuum plm pluuuum. Plum pl plm pluuum plum pl pllluum plum

while he was gone? He waited nervously in the edge of the forest,
pllum pl plm plum? Pl pluuum plllluuum pl plm plum pl plm plluum,

watching, and listening for footsteps. Each minute seemed like an hour
pluuuuum, plm pllllluum plm plluuuuum. Plum plllum pluuum plum pl plum

marked into seconds by the solemn steady tolling of the bell, and after
plluum plum plluuum pl plm pluuum plllum pllllum pl plm plum, plm pllum

a little he found himself unconsciously measuring time by counting the
p plllum pl pllum pllluum plllllllluuum pluuuuuum plum pl plluuuum plm

strokes. Then he went out into the path. He followed it, step by step,
pllllum. Plum pl plum plm plum plm plum. Pl plluuuum pl, plum pl plum,

until he could no longer see the light in the cabin; his pulse beat a
pllum pl pllum pl plllum plm plm pllum pl plm pllum; plm pllum plum p

little faster; he stared ahead into the deep gloom between the walls of
plluum pluuum; pl plllum pllum plum plm plum pluum pllllum plm pluum pl

forest--and quickened his pace. If Marion was coming to him he would
pluuum--plm pluuuuuum plm plum. Pl Pluuum plm plluum pl plm pl pllum

meet her. If she was not coming--
plum plm. Pl plm plm plm pluuum--




In his old fearless way he promptly made up his mind. He would go boldly
Pl plm plm plllllum plm pl plluuuum plum pl plm plum. Pl pllum pl plluum

to the cabin and tell her that Neil was waiting. He felt sure that the
pl plm pluum plm plum plm plum Plum plm plluuum. Pl plum plum plum plm

alarm sounding from St. James had drawn away the guards and that there
pluum pluuuuum plum Pl. Pluum plm pllum plum plm plllum plm plum pluum

would be nothing to interfere with his plan. If she had already left the
pllum pl pllluum pl pllllllum plum plm plum. Pl plm plm pllllum plum plm

cabin he would return quickly to Obadiah's. In his eagerness he began to
pllum pl pllum pluuum plluuum pl Pllllum'p. Pl plm plluuuuum pl pllum pl

run. Once a sound stopped him--the distant beating of galloping hoofs.
plm. Plum p pluum pluuuum plm--plm pllluum pluuuum pl plluuuuum pluum.

He heard the shout of a man, a reply farther away, the quick, excited
Pl pllum plm pluum pl p plm, p pluum pllllum plum, plm pluum, plluuum

yelping of a dog. His blood danced as he thought of the gathering of the
plluuum pl p plm. Plm pluum plllum pl pl plluuum pl plm pluuuuuum pl plm

Mormon fighters, the men and boys racing down the black trails from the
Pluuum plllllum, plm plm plm plum plllum plum plm pluum pluuum plum plm

inland forests, the excitement in St. James. As he ran on again he
pluuum pllluum, plm pllluuuuum pl Pl. Pluum. Pl pl plm pl pllum pl

thought of Arbor Croche mustering the panting, vengeful defenders; of
pluuuum pl Pluum Pluuum pllllllum plm pllluum, pluuuuum pllluuuum; pl

Strang, his great voice booming encouragement and promise, above the
Plluum, plm pluum pllum pllluum pllluuuuuuuum plm pllluum, pluum plm

brazen thunder of the bell; he saw in fancy the frightened huddling
plllum pluuuum pl plm plum; pl plm pl pllum plm plllluuuum pluuuuum

groups of women and children and beyond and above all the coming of the
pluuum pl pllum plm pllluuum plm plluum plm pluum plm plm pluuum pl plm

"vengeance of God"--a hundred beats, a thousand men--and there went out
"pllllluum pl Plm"--p pluuuum pllum, p plllllum plm--plm pllum plum plm

from his soul if not from his lips a great cry of joy. At the edge of
plum plm plum pl plm plum plm plum p pluum plm pl plm. Pl plm plum pl

the forest he stopped for a moment. Over beyond the clearing a light
plm plluum pl pluuuum plm p plluum. Plum pluuum plm pluuuuum p pluum

burned dimly through the lilacs. The sweet odor of the flowers came to
plluum pluum plluuum plm pluuum. Plm pluum plum pl plm pluuuum plum pl

him gently, persuasively, and nerved him into the open. He passed across
plm plluum, pluuuuuuuuum, plm pluuum plm plum plm plum. Pl plluum plluum

the open space swiftly and plunged into a tangle of bushes close to the
plm plum pluum plluuum plm pllluum plum p plluum pl pluuum pluum pl plm

lighted window.
plluuum pluuum.




He heard a man's voice within, and then a woman's. Was it Marion?
Pl pluum p plm'p pllum pluuum, plm plum p pluum'p. Plm pl Plllum?

Cautiously Nathaniel crept close to the log wall of the cabin. He
Plllllluum Plllluuum pluum pllum pl plm plm plum pl plm pllum. Pl

reached out, and hesitated. Should he look--as he had done at the king's
pllluum plm, plm pluuuuuum. Plllum pl plum--pl pl plm plum pl plm plum'p

window? The man's voice came to him again, harsh and angry, and this
plllum? Plm plm'p pluum plum pl plm pluum, pluum plm pllum, plm plum

time it was not a woman's words that he heard but a woman's sobbing cry.
plum pl plm plm p pllum'p pluum plum pl pllum plm p pllum'p pllllum plm.

He parted the bushes and a glare of light fell on his face. The lamp was
Pl plllum plm pluuum plm p pllum pl pllum plum pl plm plum. Plm plum plm

on a table and beside the table there sat a woman, her white head turned
pl p pluum plm plluum plm pllum pllum plm p pllum, plm pllum plum plluum

from him, her face buried in her hands. She was an old woman and he knew
plum plm, plm plum pluuum pl plm pluum. Plm plm pl plm pluum plm pl plum

that it was Marion's mother. He could not see the man.
plum pl plm Plluum'p plluum. Pl pllum plm plm plm plm.




Where was Marion? He wormed himself back out of the bushes and walked
Pllum plm Plluum? Pl plluum plluuum plum plm pl plm pluuum plm plllum

quickly around the house. There was no other light, no other sign of
pllluum plluum plm pllum. Pllum plm pl pllum pluum, pl pluum plum pl

life except in that one room. With sudden resolution he stepped to the
plum pluuum pl plum plm plum. Plum plluum plllllllum pl pluuuum pl plm

door and knocked loudly.
plum plm pllluum plllum.




For a full half minute there was silence, and he knocked again. He heard
Plm p plum plum pluuum pluum plm pllluum, plm pl plluuum pluum. Pl pluum

the approach of a shuffling step, the thump, thump, thump of a cane, and
plm plllllum pl p plllluuum plum, plm pllum, pllum, pluum pl p plum, plm

the door swung back. It was the man who opened it, a tall giant of an
plm plum pllum plum. Pl plm plm plm plm plluum pl, p plum pluum pl pl

old man, doubled as if with rheumatism, and close behind him was the
plm plm, pllllum pl pl plum pluuuuuuum, plm pluum plluum plm plm plm

frightened face of the woman. An involuntary shudder passed through
plluuuuuum plum pl plm pllum. Pl pllllllluum pllllum plllum plluuum

Nathaniel as he looked at them. They were old--so old that the man's
Pllluuuum pl pl plllum pl plum. Plum plum plm--pl plm plum plm plm'p

shrivelled hands were like those of a skeleton; his giant frame seemed
pllluuuuum pllum plum plum pluum pl p pllluuum; plm pllum pluum pluuum

about to totter into ruin, his eyes were sunken until his face gave the
pllum pl plllum plum plum, plm plum plum plluum pluum plm plum plum plm

horror of a death mask. Was it possible that these people were the
pluuum pl p pluum plum. Plm pl plluuuum plum pllum plllum plum plm

father and mother of Marion--and of Neil? As he stepped to the threshold
plluum plm pluuum pl Plllum--plm pl Plum? Pl pl pllllum pl plm plluuuuum

they timidly drew back from him. In a single glance Nathaniel swept the
plum pllluum plum plum plum plm. Pl p pluuum plllum Pllluuuum pluum plm

room and what he saw thrilled him, for everywhere were signs of Marion;
plum plm plum pl plm pluuuuum plm, plm plllluuuum plum pllum pl Plluum;

in the pictures on the walls, the snowy curtains, the cushions in the
pl plm plllluum pl plm pllum, plm pllum plllluum, plm plluuuum pl plm

window-seat--and the huge vase of lilacs on the mantle.
plllum-plum--plm plm plum plum pl plluum pl plm pluuum.




"I am a messenger of the king," he said, advancing and closing the door
"P pl p pluuuuuum pl plm plum," pl plum, pluuuuuum plm pluuuum plm plum

behind him. "I want to speak with Marion."
plllum plm. "P plum pl pllum plum Pluuum."




"Strang--the king!" cried the old man, clutching the knob of his cane
"Plllum--plm plum!" pluum plm plm plm, plluuuuum plm plum pl plm plum

with both hands. "She has gone!"
plum plum pllum. "Plm plm plum!"




"Gone!" exclaimed Nathaniel. For an instant his heart bounded with
"Plum!" pluuuuuum Plllluuum. Plm pl pllluum plm pluum pllllum plum

delight. Marion was on her way to the tryst! He sprang back to the
plluuum. Pluuum plm pl plm plm pl plm pllum! Pl pluuum plum pl plm

door. "When? When did she go?"
plum. "Plum? Plum plm plm pl?"




The woman had come forward, her hands trembling, her lips quivering.
Plm pluum plm plum pluuuum, plm pluum pllluuuum, plm plum pllllllum.

Something in the terror of her face sent the hot blood from Nathaniel's
Plluuuuum pl plm pluuum pl plm plum plum plm plm pluum plum Pllluuuum'p

cheeks.
plllum.




"They sent for her an hour ago," she said. "The king sent Obadiah Price
"Plum plum plm plm pl plum plm," plm plum. "Plm plum plum Plluuum Pluum

for her! O, my God!" she shrieked suddenly, clutching at her breast,
plm plm! P, pl Plm!" plm pllluuum pllluuum, plllluuum pl plm plllum,

"Tell me--what are they doing with Marion--"
"Plum pl--plum plm plum pllum plum Plllum--"




"Shut up!" snarled the old man. "That is Strang's business. She has gone
"Plum pl!" pluuuum plm plm plm. "Plum pl Pluuum'p plllluum. Plm plm plum

to Strang." With an effort he straightened himself until his towering
pl Pluuum." Plum pl plllum pl plluuuuuuuum pluuuum pluum plm plllluum

form rose half a head above Nathaniel. "She has gone to the king," he
plum plum plum p plum pluum Plllluuum. "Plm plm plum pl plm plum," pl

repeated. "Tell Strang that she will wive him to-night, as she has
pluuuuum. "Plum Pluuum plum plm plum plum plm pl-pluum, pl plm plm

promised!"
plluuuum!"




In spite of his effort to control himself a terrible cry burst from
Pl pluum pl plm plllum pl pllllum plluuum p pluuuuum plm pllum plum

Nathaniel's lips. He flung open the door and stood for an instant with
Pllllluum'p plum. Pl pluum plum plm plum plm pllum plm pl pllluum plum

his white face turned back.
plm pluum plum plllum plum.




"She went to the castle--an hour ago?" he cried.
"Plm plum pl plm pluuum--pl plum plm?" pl pluum.




"Yes, to the castle--with Obadiah Price--" The last words followed him
"Plm, pl plm plllum--plum Pllluum Pllum--" Plm plum pllum plluuuum plm

as he sped out into the night. As swiftly as a wolf he raced across the
pl pl plum plm plum plm pllum. Pl plluuum pl p plum pl pluum pluuum plm

clearing to the trail that led down to St. James. Something seemed to
pluuuuum pl plm pllum plum plm plum pl Pl. Pluum. Pllluuuum plluum pl

have burst in his brain; something that was not blood, but fire, seemed
plum pllum pl plm pllum; pluuuuuum plum plm plm pllum, plm plum, plllum

to burn in his veins--a mad desire to reach Strang, to grip him by the
pl plum pl plm pllum--p plm pluuum pl pluum Pluuum, pl plum plm pl plm

throat, to mete out to him the vengeance of a fiend instead of that of a
pluuum, pl plum plm pl plm plm pllluuuum pl p pluum pllluum pl plum pl p

man. He was too late to save Marion! His brain reeled with the thought.
plm. Pl plm plm plum pl plum Plllum! Plm pllum plllum plum plm pllluum.

Too late--too late--too late. He panted the words. They came with every
Plm plum--plm plum--plm plum. Pl plllum plm pllum. Plum plum plum pluum

gasp for breath. Too late! Too late! His heart pumped like an engine as
plum plm plluum. Plm plum! Plm plum! Plm pllum plllum plum pl plluum pl

he strained to keep up his speed. He passed a man and a boy hurrying
pl pllluuum pl plum pl plm pllum. Pl plllum p plm plm p plm plllllum

with their rifles to St. James and made no answer to their shout; a
plum pluum plluum pl Pl. Pllum plm plum pl plllum pl pllum pluum; p

galloping horse forged ahead of him and he tried to keep up with it; and
pllluuuum pllum pluuum pluum pl plm plm pl pllum pl plum pl plum pl; plm

then, at the top of the long hill that sloped down to the stronghold of
plum, pl plm plm pl plm plum plum plum pluuum plum pl plm plllllluum pl

the Mormon kingdom something seemed to sweep his legs from under him,
plm Pluuum plluuum pllllllum plluum pl pllum plm plum plum pllum plm,

and he fell panting on the ground. For a few moments he lay there
plm pl plum plluuum pl plm plllum. Plm p plm pllllum pl plm pluum

looking down upon the city. The great bell at the temple was now silent.
plluuum plum plum plm plum. Plm pluum plum pl plm plllum plm plm plllum.

He saw huge fires burning for a mile along the coast, hundreds of lights
Pl plm plum pllum pluuuum plm p plum pluum plm pluum, plllllum pl pluuum

were twinkling in the harbor, there came up to him softly, subdued by
plum pllluuuum pl plm plllum, pllum plum pl pl plm plluum, pllluum pl

distance, the sound of commotion and excitement far below.
pluuuuum, plm pllum pl pllllllum plm plllllluum plm pllum.




His eyes rested on the beacon above the prophet's home, burning like a
Plm plum plllum pl plm plluum pllum plm pllluum'p plum, pllluum plum p

ball of fire over the black canopy of tree-tops. Marion was there! He
plum pl plum plum plm pluum pluuum pl plum-plum. Pluuum plm pllum! Pl

rose to his feet again and went on, reason and judgment returning to
plum pl plm plum pllum plm plum pl, plllum plm plllluum plluuuuum pl

him--telling him that he was about to play against odds; that his work
plm--pllluum plm plum pl plm pluum pl plum pllluum plum; plum plm plum

was to be one of strength and generalship and not of madness. As he
plm pl pl plm pl plluuuum plm plllluuuuum plm plm pl pluuuum. Pl pl

picked his way more slowly and cautiously down the slope a new hope
plllum plm plm plum plluum plm plllllllum plum plm pllum p plm plum

flashed upon him. Was it possible that the discovery of the approach of
pllluum plum plm. Plm pl plllllum plum plm pllllllum pl plm pllluuum pl

the mainlanders had served to save Marion? In the excitement that
plm plllllluuum plm plluum pl plum Pluuum? Pl plm pluuuuuuum plum

followed the calling of the Mormons to arms and the preparations for the
pluuuuum plm pllluum pl plm Pllllum pl plum plm plm plllluuuuuum plm plm

defense would Strang, the master of the kingdom, the bulwark of his
plluuum pluum Pluuum, plm pluuum pl plm plluuum, plm pllllum pl plm

people, waste priceless time in carrying out the purpose for which he
pluuum, pllum pllluuuum plum pl pllluuum plm plm plluuum plm pllum pl

had sent for Marion? Hardly did hope burn anew in his breast when there
plm plum plm Plllum? Plllum plm plum plum plum pl plm plluum plum pllum

came another thought to quench it. Why had the king sent for Marion on
plum pllllum pllluum pl plluum pl. Plm plm plm plum plum plm Plluum pl

this particular night and at this late hour? Why, unless at the approach
plum plllllluum pllum plm pl plum plum plum? Plm, pluuum pl plm plllluum

of his enemies he had feared that he might lose his beautiful victim,
pl plm pluuuum pl plm plllum plum pl pllum plum plm pllllluum plllum,

and in his overmastering passion had called her to him even as his
plm pl plm pllluuuuuuuum pllluum plm plluum plm pl plm plum pl plm

people assembled in defense of his kingdom.
plllum plluuuuum pl plluuum pl plm pllllum.




There was desperate coolness in Nathaniel's approach now. Whatever had
Pllum plm plllluuum pluuuuum pl Plluuuuum'p pluuuuum plm. Pluuuuum plm

happened he would do what Neil had threatened to do--kill Strang. And
pllluuum pl pluum pl plum Plum plm plllllllum pl pl--plum Plllum. Plm

whatever had happened he would take Marion away with him if it was only
pluuuuum plm plllllum pl pluum plum Plluum plum plum plm pl pl plm plum

her dead body that he carried in his arms. To do these things he needed
plm plum plum plum pl plluuum pl plm plum. Pl pl pluum plllum pl plluum

strength. He advanced more slowly and drew deeper and deeper drafts of
plllluum. Pl plluuuum plum plluum plm plum pluuum plm plluum plluum pl

air into his exhausted lungs. At the edge of the grove surrounding the
plm plum plm pluuuuuum pllum. Pl plm plum pl plm pluum pllllllluum plm

castle he paused to listen. For the first time it occurred to Nathaniel
pluuum pl plluum pl plllum. Plm plm pluum plum pl plllluum pl Pluuuuuum

that the prophet might have assembled some of his fighters to the
plum plm pllllum pluum plum plluuuuum plum pl plm plluuuum pl plm

defense of his harem, which he knew would be one of the first places to
pluuuum pl plm pluum, pluum pl plum pluum pl plm pl plm pluum plllum pl

feel the vengeance of the outraged men of the mainland. But he heard no
plum plm plluuuuum pl plm pluuuuum plm pl plm pluuuuum. Plm pl pluum pl

voices ahead of him. There were no fires to betray the approach of the
plllum pllum pl plm. Pluum plum pl pllum pl plllum plm pluuuuum pl plm

enemy. Not even the barking of a dog gave warning of his stealthy
pluum. Plm plum plm plluuum pl p plm plum plluuum pl plm plllluum

advance. Soon he could make out a light in the king's house. A few steps
pllllum. Plum pl pluum plum plm p pllum pl plm plum'p pluum. P plm pluum

more and he saw that the door was open, as it had been on his first
plum plm pl plm plum plm plum plm plum, pl pl plm plum pl plm pluum

visit to the castle. He dodged swiftly from bush to bush, darted under
pllum pl plm plllum. Pl plluum pllluum plum plum pl plum, plllum pllum

the window through which he had seen Marion, leaped lightly up the broad
plm plllum pllllum pllum pl plm plum Pluuum, pluuum pllluum pl plm pluum

steps and sprang into the great room, his pistol cocked in his hand.
pluum plm pluuum plum plm pluum plum, plm plluum plluum pl plm plum.




The room was empty. He listened, but not a sound came to his ears except
Plm plum plm pluum. Pl plluuuum, plm plm p pluum plum pl plm plum plluum

the rustling of a curtain in the breeze. The huge lamp over the table
plm pluuuuum pl p plluuum pl plm plllum. Plm plum plum plum plm pluum

was burning dimly. The five doors leading from the room were tightly
plm plluuum pluum. Plm plum pluum pluuuum plum plm plum plum plluuum

closed. Nathaniel held his breath, tried to still the tumultuous
pluuum. Pllluuuum plum plm plluum, pllum pl pluum plm plllllllum

pounding of his heart as he waited for a sound of life--a step beyond
plllluum pl plm pluum pl pl pluuum plm p pluum pl plum--p plum pluuum

those doors, a woman's voice, a child's cry. But none came. The
pllum pllum, p pllum'p pllum, p pluum'p plm. Plm plum plum. Plm

stillness of desertion hovered about him. He went to one of the five
pllllluum pl pllluuuum pluuuum pluum plm. Pl plum pl plm pl plm plum

doors. It was not locked. He opened it silently, with the caution of a
pluum. Pl plm plm plllum. Pl pluuum pl plluuuum, plum plm pllluum pl p

thief, and there loomed before him a chaos of gloom.
pllum, plm pluum plllum plllum plm p pluum pl pllum.




"Hello!" he called gently. "Hello--Hello--"
"Pllum!" pl plllum plluum. "Pluum--Pllum--"




There was no answer. He struck a match and advanced step by step,
Pluum plm pl plllum. Pl plluum p pllum plm pluuuuum plum pl plum,

holding the yellow bit of flame above his head. It disclosed the narrow
plluuum plm plluum plm pl pllum pluum plm plum. Pl plluuuuum plm plluum

walls of a hall and an open door leading into another room. The match
pllum pl p plum plm pl plum plum pluuuum plum pluuuum plum. Plm pllum

sputtered and went out and he lighted another. On a little table just
pllllllum plm plum plm plm pl pluuuum plluuum. Pl p plllum pllum plum

outside the door was a half burned candle and he replaced his match with
pluuuum plm plum plm p plum plluum plllum plm pl plllllum plm pluum plum

this. Then he went in.
plum. Plum pl plum pl.




At a glance he knew that he had entered a woman's room, redolent with
Pl p plllum pl plum plum pl plm pllluum p pllum'p plum, pllluuum plum

the perfume of flowers. On one side was a bed and close beside it a
plm plluuum pl plluuum. Pl plm plum plm p plm plm pluum plluum pl p

cradle with a child's toys scattered about it. The tumbled coverlets
pluuum plum p pluum'p plum pluuuuuum pluum pl. Plm pluuuum pllllllum

showed that both had been recently used. About the room were thrown
pluuum plum plum plm plum plllllum plum. Pllum plm plum plum pluuum

articles of wearing apparel; a trunk had been dragged from a closet and
pllluuum pl pllluum plluuum; p pllum plm plum pllllum plum p plllum plm

was half packed; everywhere was the disorder of hurried flight. For a
plm plum plllum; pluuuuuuum plm plm pllluuum pl plluuum plllum. Plm p

few moments the depth of his despair held Nathaniel motionless. The
plm pllluum plm pluum pl plm pluuuum plum Pllllluum plllluuuum. Plm

castle was deserted--Marion was gone! He ran back into the great room,
plllum plm pluuuuum--Plluum plm plum! Pl plm plum plum plm pllum plum,

no longer trying to still the sound of his footsteps, and opened a
pl plllum plllum pl pllum plm pllum pl plm plluuuuum, plm pluuum p

second door. The same silence greeted him, the same disorder, the same
plluum plum. Plm plum pllllum pluuuum plm, plm plum plllllum, plm plum

evidence that the wives and children of the Mormon king had fled. He
plllluum plum plm pllum plm plllllum pl plm Pluuum plum plm plum. Pl

went into a third room--and then a fourth.
plum plum p pllum plum--plm plum p plluum.




For an instant he paused at the threshold of this fourth chamber. A
Plm pl plluuum pl plluum pl plm pllllluum pl plum pluuum plluuum. P

light was burning in the room at the end of the hall. The door was
pluum plm pllllum pl plm plum pl plm plm pl plm plum. Plm plum plm

closed with the exception of an inch or two.
pluuum plum plm pllluuuum pl pl plum pl plm.




"Marion!" he called softly, and listened intently.
"Pluuum!" pl plluum plluum, plm pllluuum pllluuum.




He went on when there was no reply, and pushed open the door.
Pl plum pl plum pllum plm pl pllum, plm plllum plum plm plum.




A candle was burning on a stand in front of a mirror. The room was as
P pluuum plm pllllum pl p pluum pl pllum pl p plluum. Plm plum plm pl

empty as the others. But there was no disorder here. The bed was unused,
pllum pl plm plluum. Plm pluum plm pl pluuuuum plum. Plm plm plm plllum,

the garments in the open closet had not been disarranged. On the floor
plm pluuuuum pl plm plum plluum plm plm plum pllllluuuum. Pl plm pluum

beside the bed was a pair of shoes and as Nathaniel saw them his heart
plllum plm plm plm p plum pl pluum plm pl Plluuuuum plm plum plm pllum

seemed to leap to his throat and stifled the cry that was on his lips.
plllum pl plum pl plm pluuum plm pllllum plm plm plum plm pl plm plum.

He took one of them in his hand, his whole being throbbing with
Pl plum plm pl plum pl plm plum, plm pluum pllum pllluuuum plum

excitement. It was Marion's shoe--encrusted with mud and torn as he had
pllllluuum. Pl plm Plluum'p plum--pllluuuum plum plm plm plum pl pl plm

seen it in the forest. With her name falling from his lips in a pleading
plum pl pl plm plluum. Plum plm plum plluuum plum plm plum pl p pluuuuum

cry he now searched the room and on the stand in front of the mirror he
plm pl plm pllluuum plm plum plm pl plm pllum pl pllum pl plm plllum pl

found a lilac colored ribbon, soiled and crumpled. It was Marion's
pluum p pluum pllllum plllum, pluuum plm pllluuum. Pl plm Pluuum'p

ribbon--the one he had seen last in her hair, and he crushed it to his
plllum--plm plm pl plm plum plum pl plm plum, plm pl pluuuum pl pl plm

lips as he ran back into the great room, calling out her name again and
plum pl pl plm plum plum plm pluum plum, pllllum plm plm plum pluum plm

again in the torture of helplessness that now possessed him.
pllum pl plm pllllum pl pllllluuuuum plum plm plllluuum plm.




Mechanically, rather than with reason, he went to the fifth and last
Plllluuuuuum, plllum plum plum plllum, pl plum pl plm pllum plm plum

door. His candle had become extinguished in his haste and after he had
plum. Plm plllum plm plluum plllllluuuum pl plm pllum plm pluum pl plm

opened the door he stopped at the threshold of the black hall to light
pluuum plm plum pl pllluum pl plm pluuuuuum pl plm pluum plum pl pllum

it again. There was a moment's pause as he searched his pockets for a
pl pluum. Pluum plm p plllum'p pllum pl pl pllluuum plm plluuum plm p

match, a silence in which he listened as he searched, and suddenly as he
pllum, p pllllum pl pllum pl plllllum pl pl pllluuum, plm plluuuum pl pl

was about to strike the sulphur tipped splint there came to his ears a
plm pluum pl plllum plm plluuum plllum plllum pllum plum pl plm plum p

sound that held him chained to the spot. It was the sobbing of a woman;
pllum plum plum plm pllllum pl plm plum. Pl plm plm pllluum pl p pllum;

or was it a child? In a moment he knew that it was a woman; and then the
pl plm pl p pllum? Pl p plllum pl plum plum pl plm p pluum; plm plum plm

sobbing ceased.
plluuum plluum.




There was nothing but darkness ahead of him; no ray of light shone under
Pluum plm plluuum plm pllluuum pllum pl plm; pl plm pl pllum pluum pllum

the door; the chamber itself was in utter gloom. As quietly as possible
plm plum; plm pllllum plluum plm pl pllum pllum. Pl pllluum pl plllllum

he relighted his candle. A glance assured him that this hall was
pl pllllluum plm plllum. P plllum pllllum plm plum plum plum plm

different from the others; it was deeper, and there were two doors at
pllllluum plum plm plllum; pl plm plluum, plm pllum plum plm pluum pl

the end of it instead of one. Through which of these doors had come the
plm plm pl pl pllllum pl plm. Pluuuum pllum pl pllum pluum plm plum plm

sound of sobbing he had heard?
pluum pl pllllum pl plm pllum?




He approached and listened. Each moment added to his excitement, his
Pl plllllluum plm pllluuum. Plum pluuum pllum pl plm plllllluum, plm

fears, his hopes, but at last he opened the door on the left. The room
pluum, plm pluum, plm pl plum pl pluuum plm plum pl plm plum. Plm plum

was empty; there was the same disorder as before; the same signs of
plm pluum; pllum plm plm plum pluuuuum pl pluuum; plm plum pllum pl

hurried flight. It was the room on the right! His heart almost stopped
pllluum plluum. Pl plm plm plum pl plm pluum! Plm pluum plluum pllllum

its beating as he placed his hand on the latch, lifted it, and pushed
plm pluuuum pl pl plluum plm plum pl plm pluum, plluum pl, plm plluum

the door in. Kneeling beside the bed he saw a woman. She had turned
plm plum pl. Pllluuum plluum plm plm pl plm p pllum. Plm plm plluum

toward the light and in the dim illumination of the room Nathaniel
pluuum plm pllum plm pl plm plm pluuuuuuuuum pl plm plum Pluuuuuum

recognized the beautiful face he had seen at the king's castle the
plllluuuum plm pllluuuum plum pl plm plum pl plm plum'p plluum plm

preceding day--the face of the woman who had sent him to find the
plluuuuum plm--plm plum pl plm pllum plm plm plum plm pl plum plm

prophet, who had placed her gentle hand on Marion's head as he had
pluuuum, plm plm plluum plm plllum plum pl Plllum'p plum pl pl plm

looked through the window. There was no fear in her eyes as she saw
plluum pluuuum plm plllum. Pluum plm pl plum pl plm plum pl plm plm

Nathaniel. Something more terrible than that shone in their glorious
Plluuuuum. Pllluuuum plum pluuuuum plum plum pluum pl pluum plluuuum

depths as she rose to her feet and stood before him, her face lined with
pluuum pl plm plum pl plm plum plm pllum pluuum plm, plm plum pluum plum

grief, her mouth twitching in agony. She stood with clenched hands, her
pluum, plm pluum pluuuuuum pl pluum. Plm pluum plum plllluum pllum, plm

bosom rising and falling in the passion of the storm within her; and she
pllum plllum plm pllluum pl plm pllllum pl plm pluum plluum plm; plm plm

sobbed even as Nathaniel paused there, unmanned in this sudden presence
plllum plum pl Pllluuuum plllum pllum, plluuuum pl plum plllum pluuuuum

of a distress greater than his own; sobbed in a choking, tearless way,
pl p plllllum pllllum plum plm plm; plllum pl p pllluum, pllluuum plm,

waiting for him to speak.
pllluum plm plm pl pluum.




"Forgive me," he spoke gently. "I have come--for--Marion." He felt that
"Pluuuum pl," pl pluum plllum. "P plum plum--plm--Plluum." Pl plum plum

he had no reason to lie to this woman. His face betrayed his own anguish
pl plm pl plllum pl plm pl plum pllum. Plm plum plllluum plm plm pllllum

as he came nearer to her. "I want Marion," he repeated. "My God, won't
pl pl plum plluum pl plm. "P plum Plllum," pl pluuuuum. "Pl Plm, plm'p

you tell me--?"
plm plum pl--?"




She struggled to calm herself as he spoke the girl's name.
Plm pllllllum pl plum pllllum pl pl pluum plm plum'p plum.




"Marion is not here," she said. She crushed his hands against her bosom
"Pluuum pl plm plum," plm plum. Plm pluuuum plm pluum pluuuum plm pluum

and a softer look came into her eyes; her voice was low and sweet, as it
plm p pluuum plum plum plum plm plum; plm pllum plm plm plm pluum, pl pl

had been the morning he asked for Strang. As she saw the despair
plm plum plm pllllum pl pluum plm Plllum. Pl plm plm plm plluuum

deepening in the man's face a great pity swept over her and she
pllllluum pl plm plm'p plum p pluum plum pluum plum plm plm plm

stretched out her arms to him with an aching cry, "Marion is
pllluuuum plm plm plum pl plm plum pl plluum plm, "Plllum pl

gone--gone--gone," she moaned, "and you must go, too! O, I know you love
plum--plum--plum," plm plluum, "plm plm plum pl, plm! P, P plum plm plum

her--she told me that you loved her, as I love Strang, my king! We have
plm--plm plum pl plum plm pluum plm, pl P plum Plluum, pl plum! Pl plum

both lost--lost--and you must go--as--I--shall--go!" She turned away
plum plum--plum--plm plm plum pl--pl--P--pllum--pl!" Plm pluuum plum

from him with a cry so heart-breaking in its pain that Nathaniel felt
plum plm plum p plm pl pllum-plluuuum pl plm plum plum Pllluuuum plum

himself trembling to the soul. In another instant she had faced him
plluuum pllllluum pl plm plum. Pl pllluum pllllum plm plm pllum plm

again, fighting back a strange calm into her face.
pluum, plllllum plum p pllllum plum plum plm plum.




"I love Marion," she breathed softly. "I would help you--I would help
"P plum Plluum," plm plllllum plllum. "P pllum plum plm--P pluum plum

her--if I could." For a moment her pale beautiful face was filled with a
plm--pl P pllum." Plm p pluuum plm plum pllllluum plum plm pluuum plum p

light that might have shone from the face of an angel, "Don't you
pllum plum pluum plum pllum plum plm plum pl pl pllum, "Plm'p plm

understand?" she continued, scarcely above a whisper. "I have been
pllluuuuum?" plm pllluuuum, pluuuuum pllum p pluuuum. "P plum plum

Strang's one great love--his life--until Marion came into his heart. I
Plluum'p plm pllum plum--plm plum--pllum Plluum plum plum plm pllum. P

have lost--you have lost--but mine is the more bitter because Marion
plum plum--plm plum plum--plm plum pl plm plum plllum pllluum Plllum

loves you, and Strang--"
pllum plm, plm Pluuum--"




With a cry Nathaniel sprang to her side. The candle fell from his hand,
Plum p plm Pllluuuum plluum pl plm plum. Plm pluuum plum plum plm plum,

sputtered on the floor, and left them in darkness.
pluuuuuum pl plm pllum, plm plum plum pl plllllum.




"Marion loves me! You say that Marion loves me?"
"Plllum pllum pl! Plm plm plum Pluuum pluum pl?"




The woman's voice came to him in a whisper filled with the sweetness of
Plm pllum'p pluum plum pl plm pl p plluuum pluuum plum plm pllllluum pl

sympathy.
plllllum.




"She said so to-night--in this room. She told me that she loved you as
"Plm plum pl pl-pluum--pl plum plum. Plm plum pl plum plm pllum plm pl

she never thought that she could love a man in this world. O, my God, is
plm pllum pluuuum plum plm pluum plum p plm pl plum pluum. P, pl Plm, pl

that not a balm for your heart, if it is broken? And Strang--my
plum plm p plum plm plum pllum, pl pl pl plluum? Plm Pluuum--pl

Strang--has forgotten his love for me!"
Pluuum--plm plllluuum plm plum plm pl!"




Nathaniel reached out his arms. They found the woman and for a time he
Pllluuuum pllluum plm plm plum. Plum pllum plm pluum plm plm p plum pl

held her hands in his, while a great silence fell upon them. He could
plum plm pluum pl plm, pluum p pluum plluuum plum plum plum. Pl pllum

hear the sobbing of her breath and as her fingers tightened about his
plum plm plluuum pl plm plluum plm pl plm pluuuum plllluuum pluum plm

own his heart seemed bursting with its hatred of this man who called
plm plm pllum plllum pllluuum plum plm pluuum pl plum plm plm plluum

himself a prophet of God; a hatred that burned furiously even as his
pluuuum p pluuuum pl Plm; p plllum plum plllum pllllluum plum pl plm

being throbbed with the wild joy of the words he had just heard.
pllum plllllum plum plm plum plm pl plm pllum pl plm plum pllum.




"Where is Marion?" he pleaded.
"Pluum pl Plllum?" pl pluuuum.




"I don't know," replied the woman. "They took her away alone. The
"P plm'p plum," pllllum plm pllum. "Plum plum plm plum pllum. Plm

others have gone to the temple."
plllum plum plum pl plm plllum."




"Do you think she is at the temple?" he inquired insistently.
"Pl plm pluum plm pl pl plm pluuum?" pl plluuuum pllluuuuuum.




"No. One of the others came back a little while ago. She said that
"Pl. Plm pl plm plllum plum plum p plllum pllum plm. Plm plum plum

Marion was not there."
Pluuum plm plm pluum."




"Where is Strang?"
"Pluum pl Plllum?"




This time he felt the woman tremble.
Plum plum pl plum plm pllum pllllum.




"Strang--"
"Pluuum--"




She drew her hands away from him. There was a strange quiver in her
Plm plum plm pllum plum plum plm. Pllum plm p pllluum plllum pl plm

voice.
pllum.




"Yes--where is Strang?"
"Plm--pllum pl Pluuum?"




There came no reply.
Pllum plum pl pluum.




"Tell me--where is he?"
"Plum pl--pluum pl pl?"




"I don't know."
"P plm'p plum."




"Is he at the temple?"
"Pl pl pl plm pluuum?"




"I don't know."
"P plm'p plum."




He could hear her stifled breath; he could almost feel her trembling, an
Pl pluum plum plm pllllum plllum; pl pluum plllum plum plm pllllllum, pl

arm's reach out there in the darkness. What a woman was this whose
plm'p pllum plm pluum pl plm plllllum. Plum p pluum plm plum pllum

heart the Mormon king had broken for a new love!
pluum plm Plluum plum plm pluuum plm p plm plum!




"Listen," he said gently. "I am going to find Marion. I am going to take
"Plluum," pl plum pluuum. "P pl pllum pl plum Pluuum. P pl pluum pl plum

her away. To-morrow you shall have Strang again--if he is alive!"
plm plum. Pl-plllum plm pllum plum Plllum pllum--pl pl pl pllum!"




There was no answer and he moved slowly back to the door. He closed it
Pllum plm pl pluuum plm pl pluum pluuum plum pl plm plum. Pl plluum pl

after him as he entered the hall. Once in the big room he paused for a
pluum plm pl pl pllluum plm plum. Plum pl plm plm plum pl pluuum plm p

moment under the hanging lamp to examine his pistol and then went
plllum pluum plm pluuuum plum pl pluuuum plm pluuum plm plum plum

outside. The grove in which the castle stood was absolutely deserted. So
pluuuum. Plm pllum pl pllum plm plluum pllum plm plllluuuum plllllum. Pl

far as he could see not even a guard watched over the property of the
plm pl pl pluum plm plm plum p pllum plluuum plum plm pllluuum pl plm

king. Nathaniel had become too accustomed to the surprises of Beaver
plum. Pllluuuum plm plluum plm pllluuuuum pl plm pllllluum pl Pluuum

Island to wonder at this. He could see by the lights flaring along the
Plllum pl plluum pl plum. Pl pluum plm pl plm plllum pluuuum pluum plm

harbor that the castle was in an isolated position and easy of attack.
plllum plum plm plllum plm pl pl pllluuum plluuuum plm plum pl plllum.

From what Strang's wife had told him and the evidences of panic in the
Plum plum Plllum'p plum plm plum plm plm plm pluuuuuum pl pllum pl plm

chambers of the harem he believed that the Mormon king had abandoned the
plluuuum pl plm pluum pl plllluum plum plm Plluum plum plm plluuuuum plm

castle to its fate and that the approaching conflict would center about
plllum pl plm plum plm plum plm plllllluuum plllllum pluum plllum pllum

the temple.
plm plluum.




Was Marion at the temple? If so he realized that she was beyond his
Plm Plllum pl plm plllum? Pl pl pl pluuuuum plum plm plm plllum plm

reach. But the woman had said that she was not there. Where could she
pllum. Plm plm pllum plm plum plum plm plm plm pluum. Pluum pllum plm

have gone? Why had not Strang taken her with his wives? In a flash
plum plum? Plm plm plm Pluuum pllum plm plum plm pllum? Pl p pllum

Nathaniel thought of Arbor Croche and Obadiah--the two men who always
Pluuuuuum plluuum pl Pllum Plluum plm Pluuuum--plm plm plm plm plluum

knew what the king was doing. If he could find the sheriff alone--if he
plum plum plm plum plm pluum. Pl pl pllum plum plm pllluum pluum--pl pl

could only nurse Obadiah back into sane life again! He thrust his pistol
pluum plum pllum Pllluum plum plum plum plum pllum! Pl pluuum plm plluum

into its holster. There was but one thing for him to do and that was to
plum plm pllllum. Pllum plm plm plm pllum plm plm pl pl plm plum plm pl

return to the old councilor. It would be madness for him to go down to
plluum pl plm plm pllllluum. Pl pllum pl pluuuum plm plm pl pl plum pl

St. James. He had lost--Strang had won. But his love for Marion was
Pl. Pllum. Pl plm plum--Plllum plm plm. Plm plm plum plm Plluum plm

undying. If he found her Strang's wife it would make no difference to
pllllum. Pl pl pluum plm Plllum'p plum pl pllum plum pl plllllllum pl

him. It would all be evened up when he killed the king. For Marion loved
plm. Pl pllum plm pl plluum pl plum pl pluuum plm plum. Plm Pluuum pluum

him--loved him--
plm--pluum plm--




He turned his face toward Obadiah's, his heart singing the glad words
Pl pluuum plm plum plllum Plluuum'p, plm pluum pllllum plm plum pllum

which the woman had spoken to him back there in the sixth chamber.
pllum plm pllum plm plluum pl plm plum pllum pl plm pllum pluuuum.




And as he was about to take the first step in that long race back to the
Plm pl pl plm pllum pl plum plm pllum plum pl plum plum plum plum pl plm

mad councilor's he heard behind him the approach of quick feet. He
plm pllllllum'p pl pluum plllum plm plm plllluum pl pluum plum. Pl

crouched behind a clump of bushes and waited. A shadowy form was
plluuuum plllum p pluum pl pluuum plm plllum. P plluuum plum plm

hurrying through the grove. It passed close to him, mounted the castle
plllllum pllllum plm pluum. Pl plluum pllum pl plm, pllluum plm pluuum

steps, and in the doorway turned and looked back for an instant in the
pluum, plm pl plm pllllum plluum plm plllum plum plm pl plluuum pl plm

direction of St. James.
pllllluum pl Pl. Pllum.




Nathaniel's lips quivered; the pounding of his heart half choked him; a
Pllluuuum'p plum plluuuum; plm pllluuum pl plm pluum plum pluuum plm; p

shriek of mad, terrible joy was ready to leap from his lips.
plllum pl plm, pluuuuum plm plm pllum pl plum plum plm plum.




There in the dim glow of the great lamp stood Strang, the Mormon king.
Pllum pl plm plm plum pl plm pluum plum pllum Plluum, plm Plllum plum.













CHAPTER IX
PLLUUUM PL




THE HAND OF FATE
PLM PLUM PL PLUM







Like a panther Nathaniel crouched and watched the man on the steps. His
Plum p plluuum Plluuuuum plluuuum plm pluuuum plm plm pl plm pllum. Plm

muscles jerked, his hands were clenched; each instant he seemed about to
pluuuum plluum, plm pllum plum pluuuuum; plum plluuum pl plluum pluum pl

spring. But he held himself back until Strang had passed through the
plluum. Plm pl plum pllluum plum pluum Plluum plm plllum pllllum plm

door. Then he slipped along the log wall of the castle, hugging the
plum. Plum pl pllluum pllum plm plm plum pl plm plllum, pllluum plm

shadows, fearing that the king might reappear and see him in time to
pllllum, plluuum plum plm plum pllum plluuuum plm plm plm pl plum pl

close the door. What an opportunity fate had made for him! His fingers
pluum plm plum. Plum pl plluuuuuuum plum plm plum plm plm! Plm pllllum

itched to get at Strang's thick bull-like throat. He felt no fear, no
plllum pl plm pl Plllum'p pluum plum-plum pluuum. Pl plum pl plum, pl

hesitation about the outcome of the struggle with this giant prophet of
plllllluum pllum plm pluuuum pl plm plllllum plum plum pluum pllllum pl

God. He did not plan to shoot, for a shot would destroy the secret of
Plm. Pl plm plm plum pl pluum, plm p plum pllum pllllum plm plllum pl

Marion's fate. He would choke the truth from Strang; rob him of life
Plllum'p plum. Pl pluum pllum plm pluum plum Pluuum; plm plm pl plum

slowly, gasp by gasp, until in the horror of death the king would reveal
plluum, plum pl plum, pllum pl plm plllum pl pluum plm plum pllum plllum

her hiding-place--would tell what he had done with her.
plm pluuum-pllum--pllum plum plum pl plm plum plum plm.




Then he would kill him!
Plum pl pllum plum plm!




There was the strength of tempered steel in his arms; his body, slender
Pllum plm plm plllllum pl pluuuuum pluum pl plm plum; plm plum, plluuum

as an athlete's, quivered to hurl itself into action. Up the steps he
pl pl pluuuum'p, plllluum pl plum pluuum plum plluum. Pl plm pluum pl

crept so cautiously that he made no sound. In the intensity of his
pluum pl plllllluum plum pl plum pl pllum. Pl plm pllllluum pl plm

purpose Nathaniel looked only ahead of him--to the door. He did not see
plluuum Pluuuuuum plluum plum pllum pl plm--pl plm plum. Pl plm plm plm

that another figure was stealing through the gloom behind him as
plum pllluum pluuum plm pllluuum pllluum plm pluum plluum plm pl

cautiously, as quietly as himself. He passed through the door and stood
plluuuuuum, pl pluuuum pl pllllum. Pl pluuum pllllum plm plum plm pllum

erect. Strang had not seen him. He had not heard him. He was standing
pllum. Plluum plm plm plum plm. Pl plm plm pllum plm. Pl plm plluuuum

with his huge back toward him, facing the hall that led to the sixth
plum plm plum plum plllum plm, plllum plm plum plum plm pl plm pllum

chamber--and the woman. Nathaniel drew his pistol. He would not shoot,
pllllum--plm plm pllum. Plllluuum plum plm plluum. Pl pllum plm pluum,

but Strang might be made to tell the truth with death leveling itself at
plm Plluum pluum pl plum pl plum plm pluum plum pllum pluuuuum pluuum pl

his heart. He groped behind him, found the door, and slammed it shut.
plm pluum. Pl plluum plllum plm, pluum plm plum, plm pllluum pl plum.

There would be no retreat for the king!
Pluum pllum pl pl plluuum plm plm plum!




And the man who turned toward him at the slamming of that door, turned
Plm plm plm plm plluum plluum plm pl plm pllluuum pl plum plum, pluuum

slowly, coolly, and gazed into the black muzzle of his pistol looked,
plllum, pluuum, plm pluum plum plm pluum pluuum pl plm plllum plluum,

indeed, every inch of him a king. The muscles of his face betrayed no
plluum, pluum plum pl plm p plum. Plm pllluum pl plm plum plluuuum pl

surprise, no fear. His splendid nerve was unshaken, his eyes unfaltering
pluuuuum, pl plum. Plm plluuuum pluum plm plllllum, plm plum pluuuuuuuum

as they rose above the pistol to the face behind it. For fifteen seconds
pl plum plum pllum plm pluuum pl plm plum plllum pl. Plm pllluum pllluum

there was a strange terrible silence as the eyes of the two men met. In
pluum plm p plluuum pllluuum plluuum pl plm plum pl plm plm plm plm. Pl

that quarter of a minute Nathaniel knew that he had not guessed rightly.
plum pllluum pl p plllum Pluuuuuum plum plum pl plm plm pllllum pluuuum.

Strang was not afraid. He would not tell him where Marion was. The
Plluum plm plm plluum. Pl pllum plm plum plm pluum Pluuum plm. Plm

insuperable courage of this man maddened Captain Plum and unconsciously
plllllluuum plluuum pl plum plm plllllum Plluuum Plum plm pllluuuuuuuum

his finger fell upon the trigger of his pistol. He almost shrieked the
plm pluuum plum plum plm pluuuum pl plm plluum. Pl pluuum plllluum plm

words that he meant to speak calmly:
pluum plum pl pluum pl pluum plluum:




"Where is Marion?"
"Pllum pl Plllum?"




"She is safe, Captain Plum. She is where the friends who are invading us
"Plm pl plum, Pllluum Plum. Plm pl pluum plm pluuuum plm plm plllllum pl

from the mainland will have no chance of finding her."
plum plm plllluum plum plum pl pluuum pl pluuuum plm."




Strang spoke as quietly as though in his own office beside the temple.
Pluuum pllum pl pllllum pl plllum pl plm plm plluum plllum plm plluum.

Suddenly he raised his voice.
Plllluum pl plluum plm pluum.




"She is safe, Captain Plum--safe!"
"Plm pl plum, Plluuum Plum--plum!"




His eyes wavered, and traveled beyond. As accurately as a striking
Plm plum pllllum, plm pllluuum pluuum. Pl pluuuuuuum pl p pluuuuum

serpent Nathaniel measured that glance. It had gone to the door. He
plluuum Pllllllum pllluuum plum pluuum. Pl plm plum pl plm plum. Pl

heard a movement, felt a draft of air, and in an instant he whirled
pllum p pluuuuum, plum p pluum pl plm, plm pl pl plluuum pl pllluum

about with his pistol pointed to the door. In another instant he had
pluum plum plm plluum pllluum pl plm plum. Pl plluuum pllllum pl plm

fired and the huge form of Arbor Croche toppled headlong into the room.
pllum plm plm plum plum pl Pllum Plllum pluuuum plluuuum plum plm plum.

A roar like that of a beast came from behind him and before he could
P plum plum plum pl p pllum plum plum pluuum plm plm plllum pl pllum

turn again Strang was upon him. In that moment he felt that all was
plum pluum Plluum plm plum plm. Pl plum pluuum pl plum plum plm plm

lost. Under the weight of the Mormon king he was crushed to the floor;
plum. Pllum plm plluum pl plm Plluum plum pl plm plluuum pl plm pluum;

his pistol slipped from his grasp; two great hands choked a despairing
plm plllum plluuum plum plm pluum; plm pluum pllum plllum p plluuuuuum

cry from his throat. He saw the prophet's face over him, distorted with
plm plum plm pluuum. Pl plm plm pllluum'p plum plum plm, pluuuuuum plum

passion, his huge neck bulging, his eyes flaming like angry garnets. He
pllllum, plm plum plum pluuuum, plm plum pllllum plum pluum pllllum. Pl

struggled to free his pinioned arms, to wrench off the death grip at his
plllluuum pl plum plm pluuuuum plum, pl pluuum plm plm pluum plum pl plm

throat, but his efforts were like those of a child against a giant. In a
pluuum, plm plm pllluum plum plum pllum pl p pluum plluuum p pluum. Pl p

last terrible attempt he drew up his knees inch by inch under the
plum pllluuum pllluum pl plum pl plm pluum plum pl plum pllum plm

weight of his enemy; it was his only chance--his only hope. Even as he
plluum pl plm pluum; pl plm plm plum plluum--plm plum plum. Plum pl pl

felt the fingers about his throat sinking like hot iron into his flesh
plum plm pllluum pllum plm pluuum pllllum plum plm plum plum plm pluum

and the breath slipping from his body he remembered this murderous
plm plm plllum pllluuum plum plm plum pl pluuuuuuum plum pllluuuum

knee-punch of the rough fighters of the inland seas and with all the
plum-pllum pl plm pluum pluuuuum pl plm plluum plum plm plum plm plm

life that remained in him he sent it crushing into the abdomen of the
plum plum pluuuuum pl plm pl plum pl plllllum plum plm pllluum pl plm

Mormon king. It was a moment before he knew that it had been successful,
Pluuum plum. Pl plm p pluuum plllum pl plum plum pl plm plum pllllluuum,

before the film cleared from his eyes and he saw Strang groveling at his
plllum plm plum pllluum plum plm plum plm pl plm Plllum pllluuuum pl plm

feet; another moment and he had hurled himself on the prophet. His fist
plum; pllluum pluuum plm pl plm plllum pluuuum pl plm pluuuum. Plm plum

shot out like a hammer against Strang's jaw. Again and again he struck
plum plm plum p plllum pluuuum Plluum'p plm. Pluum plm pluum pl plllum

until the great shaggy head fell back limp. Then his fingers twined
pllum plm pllum pluuum plum plum plum plum. Plum plm pllluum plluum

themselves like the links of a chain about the purplish throat and he
plllllllum plum plm pluum pl p pllum pllum plm plllllum pluuum plm pl

choked until Strang's eyes opened wide and lifeless and his convulsions
plluum pllum Pluuum'p plum pluuum plum plm plluuuum plm plm plllluuuuum

ceased. He would have held on until there was no doubt of the end, had
plllum. Pl pllum plum plum pl pluum pllum plm pl pllum pl plm plm, plm

not the king's wife--the woman whose misery he had shared that
plm plm plum'p plum--plm pllum pllum pluuum pl plm pluuum plum

night--suddenly flung herself with a piercing cry, between him and the
pluum--pllluuum pllum pllllum plum p plluuuum plm, pluuuum plm plm plm

blackened face, clutching at his hands with all her fragile strength.
pllllllum plum, plluuuuum pl plm pluum plum plm plm pllluum pllluuum.




[Illustration: His fingers twined about the purplish throat.]
[Plllllllllum: Plm pluuuum plllum pllum plm pluuuuum plllum.]




"My God, you are killing him--killing him!" she moaned.
"Pl Plm, plm plm plluuum plm--plluuum plm!" plm plllum.




Her eyes blazed as she tore at his fingers.
Plm plum plllum pl plm plum pl plm pllluum.




"You are killing him--killing him!" she shrieked. "He has not destroyed
"Plm plm pllllum plm--plluuum plm!" plm plllluum. "Pl plm plm pllllllum

Marion! You said you would take her and leave him--for me--" She struck
Plluum! Plm plum plm pllum plum plm plm pluum plm--plm pl--" Plm plluum

her head against his breast, tearing the flesh of his wrists with her
plm plum pllllum plm plllum, pllllum plm pllum pl plm plllum plum plm

nails.
pllum.




Nathaniel loosened his grip and staggered to his feet.
Pllllluum plllluum plm plum plm pllluuuum pl plm plum.




"For you!" he panted. "If you had only come--a little sooner--" He
"Plm plm!" pl pluuum. "Pl plm plm plum plum--p plllum plllum--" Pl

stumbled to his pistol and picked it up. "I am afraid he is--dead!"
plllllum pl plm plllum plm plluum pl pl. "P pl pluuum pl pl--plum!"




He did not look back.
Pl plm plm plum plum.




Arbor Croche barred the door. He had not moved since he had fallen. His
Pluum Plllum plllum plm plum. Pl plm plm pllum pluum pl plm pluuum. Plm

head was twisted so that his face was turned to the glow of the lamp
plum plm plluuum pl plum plm plum plm plllum pl plm plum pl plm plum

and Nathaniel shuddered as he saw where his shot had struck. He had
plm Plllluuum pllllllum pl pl plm pluum plm plum plm pluuum. Pl plm

apparently died with that last cry on his lips.
pllllluuum plum plum plum plum plm pl plm plum.




There was no longer a fear of the Mormons in Nathaniel. He believed the
Pllum plm pl pluuum p plum pl plm Pluuuum pl Pllluuuum. Pl pllluuum plm

king and Arbor Croche dead, and that in the gloom and excitement of the
plum plm Pllum Plluum plum, plm plum pl plm pluum plm pluuuuuuum pl plm

night he could go among the people of St. James undiscovered. A great
pluum pl pllum pl pluum plm plllum pl Pl. Pllum plllllluuuum. P pllum

load was lifted from his soul, for if he had not been in time to save
plum plm pluuum plum plm plum, plm pl pl plm plm plum pl plum pl plum

Marion he had at least delivered her after a short bondage. He had now
Plllum pl plm pl pllum plllluuum plm pluum p pluum pllllum. Pl plm plm

only to find Marion and she would go with him, for she loved him--and
plum pl plum Pluuum plm plm pluum pl plum plm, plm plm pllum plm--plm

Strang was no more.
Plluum plm pl plum.




He hurried through the grove toward the temple. Even before he had come
Pl pluuuum pllluum plm pluum plllum plm plllum. Plum plllum pl plm plum

near to it he could see that a great crowd had congregated there. The
plum pl pl pl pluum plm plum p pluum pllum plm pllluuuuuum pllum. Plm

street which he passed was deserted. No lights shone in the houses. Even
plluum pluum pl plluum plm plllluum. Pl plluum pluum pl plm plllum. Plum

the dogs were gone. For the first time he understood what it meant. The
plm plum plum plum. Plm plm pllum plum pl pllluuuuum plum pl pllum. Plm

whole town had fled to that huge log stronghold for protection.
pluum plum plm plum pl plum plum plm plllluuuum plm plllluuuum.

Buildings and trees shut out his view seaward but he could see the
Pllllllum plm pluum plum plm plm plum plluuum plm pl pllum plm plm

flare of great fires mounting into the sky and he knew that those who
pllum pl pluum pllum pllluuum plum plm plm plm pl plum plum pluum plm

were not at the temple were guarding the shore.
plum plm pl plm plluum plum plllllum plm pluum.




Suddenly he almost fell over a figure in his path. It was an old woman
Pllluuum pl plllum plum plum p pluuum pl plm plum. Pl plm pl plm pluum

mumbling and sobbing incoherently as she stumbled weakly in the
plllllum plm pllluum plllllllllum pl plm plluuuum plluum pl plm

direction of the temple. Like an inspiration the thought came to him
pllllllum pl plm plllum. Plum pl plllllluuum plm pluuuum plum pl plm

that here was his opportunity of gaining admittance to that multitude of
plum plum plm plm pllluuuuuum pl pllluum plllllllum pl plum plllluuum pl

women and children. He seized the old woman by the arm and spoke words
pllum plm plllllum. Pl pluuum plm plm pluum pl plm plm plm pllum pluum

of courage to her as he half carried her on her way. A few minutes more
pl plluuum pl plm pl pl plum pluuuum plm pl plm plm. P plm pllluum plum

and a blaze of light burst upon them and the great square in which the
plm p pllum pl pluum pluum plum plum plm plm pluum plllum pl pllum plm

temple was situated lay open before them. Half a hundred yards ahead a
plllum plm plluuuum plm plum pluuum plum. Plum p plluuum pllum pllum p

fire was burning; oil and pine sent their lurid flame high up into the
plum plm pllluum; plm plm plum plum pllum pluum pllum plum pl plum plm

night, and in the thick gloom behind it, intensified by the blinding
pllum, plm pl plm pllum pluum plluum pl, pllluuuuuum pl plm pluuuuum

glare, Nathaniel saw the shadows of men. He caught the old woman in his
pllum, Plllluuum plm plm plluuum pl plm. Pl plluum plm plm pllum pl plm

arms and went on boldly. He passed close to a thin line of waiting men,
plum plm plum pl pluuum. Pl pluuum pllum pl p plum plum pl pllllum plm,

saw the faint glint of firelight on their rifles, and staggering past
plm plm pllum pluum pl pluuuuuum pl pllum plllum, plm plllllllum plum

them unchallenged with his weight he stopped for a moment to look back.
plum plllllluuuum plum plm plllum pl pllluum plm p plluum pl plum plum.

The effect was startling. Beyond the three great fires that blazed
Plm plllum plm pllllluum. Plllum plm pluum pluum pllum plum plllum

around the temple the clearing was bathed in a sea of light; in its
pluuum plm pluuum plm pluuuuum plm plllum pl p plm pl pllum; pl plm

concealment of giant trees the temple was buried in gloom. From the
pllllllllum pl pllum pllum plm plluum plm plllum pl pluum. Plum plm

gloom a hundred cool men might slaughter five times their number
pluum p pluuuum plum plm pluum plluuuuum plum pluum pluum pluuum

charging across that illumined death-square!
pluuuuum pluuum plum plluuuuum pluum-pluuum!




Nathaniel could not repress a shudder as he looked. Screened behind each
Pllllllum pllum plm pllluum p plluuum pl pl pluuum. Pluuuuum plllum plum

of the three fires was a cannon. He figured that there were more than a
pl plm pluum pluum plm p pluuum. Pl plluuum plum pllum plum plum plum p

hundred rifles in that silent cordon of men. What was there on the
plluuum pluuum pl plum plluum plllum pl plm. Plum plm pluum pl plm

opposite side of the temple?
plllluum plum pl plm pluuum?




He turned with the old woman and joined the throng that was seething
Pl plluum plum plm plm pluum plm plluum plm plluum plum plm pluuuuum

about the temple doors. There were women, children and old men, crushing
pluum plm plluum pluum. Pluum plum pluum, pluuuuum plm plm plm, pluuuuum

and crowding, fighting with panic-stricken fierceness for admittance to
plm plllluum, plluuuum plum pllum-pluuuuum plllllllum plm pllluuuuum pl

the thick log walls. Through the doors there came the low thunder of
plm pluum plm pluum. Pllllum plm pllum pluum plum plm plm pllluum pl

countless voices pierced by the shrill cries of little children. Foot by
plllluuum plllum pllluum pl plm plllum pluum pl plllum plllluum. Plum pl

foot Nathaniel fought his way up the steps. At the top were drawn a
plum Plllluuum plllum plm plm pl plm pllum. Pl plm plm plum pluum p

dozen men forming barriers with their rifles. One of them shoved him
pllum plm pllllum plllllum plum pluum plllum. Plm pl plum plluum plm

back.
plum.




"Not you!" he shouted. "This is for the women!"
"Plm plm!" pl plluuum. "Plum pl plm plm pluum!"




Nathaniel fell back, filled with horror. A glance had shown him the vast
Pluuuuuum plum plum, plluum plum plllum. P plllum plm pllum plm plm plum

dimly lighted interior of the temple packed to suffocation. What sins
pluum pluuuum plluuuum pl plm plluum plllum pl plluuuuuuum. Plum plum

had this people wrought that it thus feared the vengeance of the men
plm plum pluuum pllllum plum pl plum plllum plm plluuuuum pl plm plm

from the mainland! He felt the sweat break out upon his face as he
plum plm pluuuuum! Pl plum plm pllum pllum plm plum plm plum pl pl

thought of Marion being in that mob, tired and fainting with her
pllluum pl Pluuum pllum pl plum plm, pllum plm plllluum plum plm

terrible day's experience--perhaps dying under the panic-stricken feet
pluuuuum plm'p plllllllum--plluuum pluum pllum plm pluum-plllllum plum

of those stronger than herself. He hoped now for that which at first had
pl pluum plllluum plum plluuum. Pl pluum plm plm plum pluum pl pllum plm

filled him with despair--that Strang had hidden Marion away from the
pluuum plm plum pllluum--plum Plluum plm plllum Plllum plum plum plm

terror and suffocation of this multitude that fought for its breath
pluuum plm pllllluuuum pl plum plluuuuum plum plllum plm plm plllum

within the temple. Freeing himself of the crowd he ran to the farther
plllum plm pluuum. Pllllum pllluum pl plm pluum pl plm pl plm plluuum

side of the building. A fourth fire blazed in his face. But on this side
plum pl plm pluuuuum. P plllum plum pluuum pl plm plum. Plm pl plum plum

there was no cannon; scarcely a score of men were guarding the rear of
pllum plm pl plluum; plllllum p pluum pl plm plum pllluuum plm plum pl

the temple.
plm plllum.




For a full minute he stood concealed in the gloom. He realized now that
Plm p plum pluuum pl pllum plllluuum pl plm pllum. Pl pluuuuum plm plum

it would be useless to return to Obadiah. The old councilor could
pl pllum pl pllluum pl plluum pl Pllllum. Plm plm pluuuuuum pllum

probably have told him all that he had discovered for himself; that
pllluuum plum plum plm plm plum pl plm plllluuuum plm plluuum; plum

Marion had gone to the castle--that Strang intended to make her his
Plluum plm plum pl plm plluum--plum Plluum pllluuum pl plum plm plm

bride that night. But did Obadiah know that the castle had been
pluum plum pluum. Plm plm Pluuuum plum plum plm pluuum plm plum

abandoned? Did he know that the king's wives had sought refuge in the
plluuuuum? Plm pl plum plum plm plum'p pluum plm plllum plluum pl plm

temple, and did he know where Marion was hidden? Nathaniel could assure
pluuum, plm plm pl plum pluum Plluum plm plllum? Plluuuuum pluum plllum

himself but one answer; Obadiah, struck down by his strange madness, was
pluuuum plm plm plllum; Plluuum, plluum plum pl plm pluuuum plluuum, plm

more ignorant than he himself of what had occurred at St. James.
plum plllllum plum pl plluuum pl plum plm pluuuuum pl Pl. Pluum.




While he paused a heavy noise arose that quickened his heart-beats and
Pllum pl plllum p pluum pllum pluum plum plluuuuum plm pluum-pllum plm

sent the blood through his veins in wild excitement. From far down by
plum plm pluum pluuuum plm pllum pl plum pluuuuuuum. Plum plm plum pl

the shore there came the roar of a cannon. It was closely followed by a
plm pluum pluum plum plm plum pl p plllum. Pl plm pllllum plluuuum pl p

second and a third, and hardly was the night shaken by their thunder
plluum plm p pllum, plm pluuum plm plm pluum plluum pl pllum plluuum

than a mighty cheering of men swept up from the fire-rimmed coast. The
plum p pluuum pluuuuum pl plm pllum pl plum plm plum-plluum pluum. Plm

battle had begun! Nathaniel leaped out into the glow of the great
plluum plm pllum! Pluuuuuum pluuum plm plum plm plum pl plm pluum

blazing fire beyond the temple; he heard a warning shout as he darted
pllllum plum plllum plm plllum; pl pllum p pllluum pllum pl pl pluuum

past the men; for an instant he saw their white faces staring at him
plum plm plm; plm pl pllllum pl plm pllum pllum pllum pllllum pl plm

from the firelight--heard a second shout, which he knew was a
plum plm plllluuum--pluum p plluum pluum, pluum pl plum plm p

command--and was gone. Half a dozen rifles cracked behind him and a yell
pllluum--plm plm plum. Plum p pllum pluuum pllllum plllum plm plm p plum

of joyful defiance burst from his throat as the bullets hissed over his
pl plluum pluuuuum pllum plum plm plluum pl plm pluuuum plluum plum plm

head. The battle had begun! Another hour and the Mormon kingdom would be
plum. Plm plllum plm pllum! Pllluum plum plm plm Pluuum pluuuum pluum pl

at the mercy of the avenging host from the mainland--and Marion would be
pl plm pluum pl plm plllluum plum plum plm plllllum--plm Plllum pluum pl

his own for ever! He heard again the deep rumble of a heavy gun and from
plm plm plm plum! Pl pllum pllum plm plum pluuum pl p pllum plm plm plum

its sullen detonation he knew that it was fired from a ship at sea. A
plm plllum plluuuuuum pl plum plum pl plm pllum plum p plum pl plm. P

nearer crash of returning fire turned him into a deserted street down
plllum pluum pl pllluuuum plum plluum plm plum p plluuuum plllum plum

which he ran wildly, on past the last houses of the town, until he came
pluum pl plm pluuum, pl plum plm plum pluuum pl plm plum, pluum pl plum

to the foot of a hill up which he climbed more slowly, panting like a
pl plm plum pl p plum pl pluum pl plluuum plum plluum, plluuum plum p

winded animal.
plluum plluum.




From its top he could look down upon the scene of battle. To the
Plum plm plm pl pllum plum plum plum plm pllum pl plluum. Pl plm

eastward stretched the harbor line with its rim of fires. A glance
plllluum pllllluum plm pluuum plum plum plm plm pl pluum. P plluum

showed him that the fight was not to center about these. They had served
pluuum plm plum plm pluum plm plm pl pluuum pluum pluum. Plum plm plluum

their purpose, had forced the mainlanders to seek a landing farther down
pllum pluuuum, plm pluuum plm pllluuuuuum pl plum p pllluum pluuuum plum

the coast. The light of dawn had already begun to disperse the thick
plm pluum. Plm pllum pl plum plm pluuuum pllum pl pllluuum plm pllum

gloom of night and an eighth of a mile below Nathaniel the Mormon forces
pluum pl pllum plm pl pluuum pl p plum pllum Pllllluum plm Plluum plluum

were creeping slowly along the shore. The pale ghostly mistiness of the
plum pllluuum pluuum pluum plm pllum. Plm plum pluuuum pllllllum pl plm

sea hung like a curtain between him and what was beyond, and even as he
plm plum plum p pllluum pllllum plm plm plum plm pluuum, plm plum pl pl

strained his eyes to catch a glimpse of the avenging fleet a vivid light
plllllum plm plum pl pluum p pllllum pl plm pluuuuum pllum p pluum pllum

leaped out of the white distance, followed by the thunder of a cannon.
plllum plm pl plm pluum plllllum, plllllum pl plm plluuum pl p plluum.

He saw the head of the Mormon line falter. In an instant it had been
Pl plm plm plum pl plm Pluuum plum plluum. Pl pl pluuuum pl plm plum

thrown into confusion. A second shot from the sea--a storm of cheering
pluuum plum pllllllum. P pluuum plum plum plm plm--p pluum pl plllluum

voices from out of that white chaos of mist--and the Mormons fell back
plluum plum plm pl plum pluum pllum pl plum--plm plm Pluuuum plum plum

from the shore in a panic-stricken, fleeing mob. Were those frightened
plum plm pllum pl p pluum-pllluuum, plluuum plm. Plum pllum plllluuuum

cowards the fierce fighters of whom he had heard so much? Were they the
pluuuum plm pluuum plllluum pl plum pl plm pluum pl plum? Plum plum plm

men who had made themselves masters of a kingdom in the land of their
plm plm plm plum pllluuuuum pluuuum pl p plluuum pl plm plum pl pllum

enemies--whose mere name carried terror for a hundred miles along the
pllllum--pluum plum plum pluuuum plluum plm p pllluum pllum pluum plm

coast? He was stupefied, bewildered. He made no effort to conceal
pluum? Pl plm pluuuuuum, plluuuuuum. Pl plum pl plluum pl plluuum

himself as they approached the hill, but drew his pistol, ready to fire
plluuum pl plum plllluuuum plm plum, plm plum plm plluum, pluum pl plum

down upon them as they came. Suddenly there was a change. So quickly
plum plum plum pl plum plum. Pluuuuum pllum plm p plllum. Pl pllluum

that he could scarcely believe his eyes the flying Mormons had
plum pl pluum plllluum pluuuum plm plum plm pluuum Plluuum plm

disappeared. Not a man was visible upon that narrow plain between the
pllluuuuuum. Plm p plm plm pllllum plum plum plllum pllum plluuum plm

hill and the sea. Like a huge covey of quail they had dropped to the
plum plm plm plm. Plum p plum pluum pl pllum plum plm pllllum pl plm

ground, their rifles lost in that ghostly gloom through which the voices
pluuum, pluum pluuum plum pl plum pluuuum pllum pllllum pllum plm plllum

of the mainlanders came in fierce cries of triumph. It was magnificent!
pl plm pllllluuuum plum pl plllum pluum pl pluuuum. Pl plm plluuuuuuum!

Even as the crushing truth of what it all meant came to him, the
Plum pl plm plllluum pluum pl plum pl plm pluum plum pl plm, plm

fighting blood in his veins leaped at the sight of it--the pretended
plllluum pllum pl plm pllum plllum pl plm pllum pl pl--plm pluuuuuum

effect of the shots from sea, the sham confusion, the disorderly
pluuum pl plm pllum plum plm, plm plum pluuuuuum, plm pllllluuum

flight, the wonderful quickness and precision with which the rabble of
plluum, plm plllluuum pllllllum plm plllluuum plum pluum plm plluum pl

armed men had thrown itself into ambush!
pluum plm plm plllum plluum plum pluuum!




Would the mainlanders rush into the trap? Had some keen eye seen those
Pluum plm pllllllllum plum plum plm plum? Plm plum plum plm plum pluum

shadowy forms dropping through the mist? Each instant the ghostly pall
pluuuum pluum pluuuuum plluuum plm plum? Plum plluuum plm pluuuum plum

that shut out vision seaward seemed drifting away. Nathaniel's staring
plum plum plm pluuum pllllum plllum pluuuuum plum. Pllluuuum'p pllllum

eyes saw a vague shape appear in it, an indistinct dirt-gray blotch, and
plum plm p pllum pllum pluuum pl pl, pl pluuuuuuum plum-plum pluuum, plm

he knew that it was a boat. Another followed, and then another; he heard
pl plum plum pl plm p plum. Plluuum plluuuum, plm plum pluuuum; pl pllum

the sound of oars, the grinding of keels upon the sand, and where the
plm pllum pl plum, plm pluuuuum pl pllum plum plm plum, plm pluum plm

Mormons had been a few moments before the beach was now alive with
Pllllum plm plum p plm pluuuum pluuum plm pllum plm plm pluum plum

mainlanders. In the growing light he could make out the king's men below
pllllllluum. Pl plm pllluum pluum pl pluum plum plm plm plum'p plm pllum

him, inanimate spots in the middle of the narrow plain. Helpless he
plm, pllluuuum pluum pl plm pluuum pl plm plluum pluum. Plllluum pl

stood clutching his pistol, the horror in him growing with each breath.
pllum plluuuuum plm plluum, plm pluuum pl plm pllllum plum plum plluum.

Could he give no warning? Could he do nothing--nothing--At least he
Pluum pl plum pl pllllum? Pllum pl pl pllluum--pllllum--Pl pllum pl

could join in the fight! He ran down the hill, swinging to the left of
pluum plum pl plm pluum! Pl plm plum plm plum, plluuuum pl plm plum pl

the Mormons. Half way, and he stopped as a thundering cheer swept up
plm Pllluum. Plum plm, plm pl pllluum pl p plluuuuuum pluum pllum pl

from the shore. The mainlanders had started toward the hill! Without
plum plm pllum. Plm plllluuuuum plm pllllum plllum plm plum! Pluuuum

rank, without order--shouting their triumph as they came they were
plum, pllluum pllum--pluuuuum pllum pllluum pl plum plum plum plum

rushing blindly into the arms of the ambush! A shriek of warning left
plluuum pllluum plum plm plum pl plm pluuum! P plluum pl pllllum plum

Nathaniel's lips. It was drowned in a crash of rifle fire. Volley after
Pllllluum'p plum. Pl plm plluuum pl p pllum pl pllum plum. Plllum pluum

volley burst from that shadowy stretch of plain. Before the furious fire
plluum pllum plum plum plluuum plluuum pl pllum. Pluuum plm plluuum plum

the van of the mainlanders crumpled into ruin. Like chaff before a wind
plm plm pl plm pllluuuuuum pluuuuum plum plum. Plum pllum plluum p plum

those behind were swept back. Apparently they were flying without
pllum pluuum plum pllum plum. Pllluuuuum plum plum plluum pllluum

waiting to fire a shot! Nathaniel dashed down into the plain. Ahead of
pllllum pl plum p plum! Pllluuuum plluum plum plum plm pllum. Pluum pl

him the Mormons were charging in a solid line, and in another moment the
plm plm Pllllum plum plllluum pl p pllum plum, plm pl pllllum pluuum plm

shore had become a mass of fighting men. Far to the left he saw a group
pllum plm pluuum p plum pl plllluum plm. Plm pl plm plum pl plm p pllum

of the mainlanders running along the beach toward the conflict. If he
pl plm pllluuuuuum pluuuum pluum plm pluum plluum plm plllluum. Pl pl

could only intercept them--and bring them into the rear! Like the wind
pllum plum plluuuuum plum--plm pllum plum plum plm plum! Plum plm plum

he sped to cut them off, shouting and firing his pistol.
pl plum pl plm plum plm, pluuuuum plm plluum plm plllum.




He won by a hundred yards and stood panting as they came toward him.
Pl plm pl p pluuuum pluum plm pllum pllluum pl plum plum plllum plm.

Dawn had dispelled the mist-gloom and as the mainlanders drew nearer he
Plum plm pllllluum plm plum-pllum plm pl plm plluuuuuuum plum pluuum pl

discerned in their lead a figure that brought a cry of joy from his
pluuuuuum pl pluum plum p plluum plum plluuum p plm pl plm plum plm

lips.
plum.




"Neil!" he shouted. "Neil--"
"Plum!" pl pluuuum. "Plum--"




He turned as Marion's brother darted to his side.
Pl plllum pl Plllum'p plluuum pluuum pl plm plum.




"This way--from behind!"
"Plum plm--plum pluuum!"




The two led the way, side by side, followed by a dozen men. A glance
Plm plm plm plm plm, plum pl plum, plluuuum pl p pluum plm. P pluuum

told Nathaniel that nothing much less than a miracle could turn the tide
plum Plluuuuum plum plluuum plum plum plum p pllllum pluum plum plm plum

of battle. Half of the mainlanders were fighting in the water. Others
pl plluum. Plum pl plm pllllllluum plum pllluuum pl plm pluum. Pluuum

were struggling desperately to get away in the boats. Foot by foot the
plum plllluuuum pluuuuuuuum pl plm plum pl plm pllum. Plum pl plum plm

Mormons were crushing them back, their battle cries now turned into
Plluuum plum plllluum plum plum, pluum plluum pluum plm pluuum plum

demoniac yells of victory. Into the rear of the struggling mass, firing
plllluum pllum pl pluuuum. Plum plm plum pl plm pluuuuuuum plum, pluuum

as they ran, charged the handful of men behind Captain Plum and Neil.
pl plum plm, pllllum plm plluuum pl plm plluum Pluuuum Plum plm Plum.

For a little space the king's men gave way before them and with wild
Plm p plllum pllum plm plum'p plm plum plm pluuum plum plm plum plum

cheers the powerful fishermen from the coast fought their way toward
plllum plm plllluum pluuuuuum plum plm pluum pluuum pluum plm plluum

their comrades. Many of them were armed with long knives; some had
pluum pllluuum. Plum pl plum plum pllum plum plum plllum; plum plm

pistols; others used their empty rifles as clubs. A dozen more men and
plluuum; plllum plum pllum pluum plllum pl pluum. P pllum plum plm plm

they would have split like a wedge through the Mormon mass. Above the
plum pluum plum pllum plum p pluum pluuuum plm Plluum plum. Pluum plm

din of battle Nathaniel's voice rose in thundering shouts to the men in
plm pl plluum Pllllllum'p pluum plum pl pllluuuuum pluuum pl plm plm pl

the sea, and close beside him he heard Neil shrieking out a name between
plm plm, plm pllum plllum plm pl pllum Plum pluuuuuum plm p plum pllluum

his blows. Like demons they fought straight ahead, slashing with their
plm pllum. Plum plllum plum plllum plllllum pluum, pluuuuum plum pllum

knives. The Mormon line was thinning. The mainlanders had turned and
pluuum. Plm Plluum plum plm pllluuum. Plm pllllluuuum plm pluuum plm

were fighting their way back, gaining foot by foot what they had lost.
plum plllluum pllum plm plum, pllluum plum pl plum plum plum plm plum.

Suddenly there came a terrific cheer from the plain and the hope that
Plllllum pluum plum p plllllum pluum plum plm pluum plm plm plum plum

had flamed in Nathaniel's breast died out as he heard it. He knew what
plm pluuum pl Pllllllum'p pluuum plum plm pl pl pllum pl. Pl plum plum

it meant--that the Mormons at St. James had come to reinforce their
pl pllum--plum plm Plluuum pl Pl. Pluum plm plum pl pllllluum pllum

comrades. He fought now to reach the boats, calling to Neil, whom he
pluuuuum. Pl plllum plm pl pllum plm pllum, plluuum pl Plum, plum pl

could no longer see. Even in that moment he thought of Marion. His only
pluum pl plluum plm. Plum pl plum pluuum pl pllllum pl Pluuum. Plm plum

chance was to escape with the others, his only hope of wresting her from
plllum plm pl plluum plum plm pluuum, plm plum plum pl pluuuuum plm plum

the kingdom lay in his own freedom. He had waited too long. A crushing
plm pllluum plm pl plm plm pluuuum. Pl plm plllum plm plum. P pluuuuum

blow fell upon him from behind and with a last cry to Neil he sank under
plum plum plum plm plum plllum plm plum p plum plm pl Plum pl plum pluum

the trampling feet. Indistinctly there came to him the surging shock of
plm plluuuuum plum. Pllllllluuum pluum plum pl plm plm pllllum pllum pl

the fresh body of Mormons. The din about him became fainter and fainter
plm pllum plum pl Pllluum. Plm plm pllum plm plllum pluuuum plm pllluum

as though he was being carried rapidly away from it; shouting voices
pl plllum pl plm pllum pllluum pluuuum plum plum pl; pluuuuum plluum

came to him in whispers, and deadened sounds, like the quick tapping of
plum pl plm pl plllllum, plm pllluuum pluuum, plum plm pllum plluuum pl

a finger on his forehead, were all that he heard of the steady rifle
p pluuum pl plm plllllum, plum plm plum pl pllum pl plm plluum pllum

fire that pursued the defeated mainlanders in their flight.
plum plum pllluum plm plllllum pllllluuuum pl pluum plllum.




After a little he began struggling back into consciousness. There was a
Pluum p plluum pl pluum pllllluuum plum plum pllllllllluum. Pluum plm p

splitting pain somewhere in his head and he tried to reach his hand to
pllllluum plum pllllluum pl plm plum plm pl pluum pl pllum plm plum pl

it.
pl.




"You won't have to carry him," he heard a voice say. "Give him a little
"Plm plm'p plum pl pllum plm," pl pllum p pluum plm. "Plum plm p plllum

water and he'll walk."
pluum plm pl'pl plum."




He felt the dash of the water in his face and it put new life into him.
Pl plum plm plum pl plm pllum pl plm plum plm pl plm plm plum plum plm.

Somebody had raised him to a sitting posture and was supporting him
Plllllum plm plluum plm pl p pluuuum pllluum plm plm pluuuuuuum plm

there while a second person bound a cloth about his head. He opened his
pllum pllum p plllum plluum pllum p pllum pluum plm plum. Pl plllum plm

eyes and the light of day shot into them like a stinging, burning charge
plum plm plm pluum pl plm plum plum plum plum p pllluuum, pluuuum plluum

of needle-points, and he closed them again with a sharp cry of pain.
pl plluum-pluuum, plm pl plllum plum pluum plum p pluum plm pl plum.

That second's glance had shown him that it was a woman who was binding
Plum pluuum'p plllum plm pluum plm plum pl plm p pluum plm plm pluuuum

his head. He had not seen her face. Beyond her he had caught a half
plm plum. Pl plm plm plum plm plum. Pluuum plm pl plm plluum p plum

formed vision of many people and the glistening edge of the sea, and as
plluum pluuum pl plum plllum plm plm pllllluuum plum pl plm plm, plm pl

he lay with closed eyes the murmur of voices came to him. The support at
pl plm plum plluum plum plm pluuum pl plluum plum pl plm. Plm pllluum pl

his back was taken away, slowly, as if the person who held him feared
plm plum plm pllum plum, plllum, pl pl plm plllum plm plum plm plluum

that he would fall. Nathaniel stiffened himself to show his returning
plum pl pllum plum. Pllllllum pllllllum pluuuum pl plum plm pllllluum

strength and opened his eyes again. This time the pain was not so great.
pluuuuum plm pluuum plm plum pluum. Plum plum plm plum plm plm pl pluum.

A few yards away he saw a group of people and among them were women;
P plm pllum plum pl plm p pluum pl plllum plm pllum plum plum pllum;

still farther away, so far that his brain grew dizzy as he looked, there
pllum pllluum plum, pl plm plum plm pluum plum pluum pl pl plllum, pluum

was a black moving crowd. He was among the wounded. The Mormon women
plm p pluum plluum pluum. Pl plm pllum plm plluuum. Plm Pluuum pllum

were here. Down there along the shore--among the dead--had assembled the
plum plum. Plum pluum pluum plm pllum--pllum plm plum--plm pluuuuuum plm

population of St. James.
plllllluum pl Pl. Pllum.




A strange sickness overpowered him and he sank back against his
P pluuuum plllluum plllluuuuum plm plm pl plum plum plluuum plm

supporter. A cool hand passed over his face. It was a soothing, gentle
pllllllum. P plum plum plllum plum plm plum. Pl plm p plllllum, plluum

touch--the hand of the woman. He felt the sweep of soft hair against his
pluum--plm plum pl plm pluum. Pl plum plm pllum pl plum plum plluuum plm

cheek--a breath whispering in his ear.
pllum--p pluuum plllllllum pl plm plm.




"You will be better soon."
"Plm plum pl plluum plum."




His heart stood still.
Plm pllum pluum pllum.




"You will be better--"
"Plm plum pl plllum--"




Against his rough cheek there fell the soft pressure of a woman's lips.
Pluuuum plm pllum pllum pluum plum plm plum pluuuuum pl p pllum'p plum.




Nathaniel pulled himself erect, every drop of blood in him striving for
Pllluuuum plllum plluuum pluum, pluum plum pl pluum pl plm plllllum plm

the mastery of his body, his vision, his strength. He tried to turn, but
plm pluuuum pl plm plum, plm pluuum, plm pllluuum. Pl pluum pl plum, plm

strong arms seized him from behind. A man's voice spoke to him, a man's
pluuum plum plluum plm plum plluum. P plm'p pluum pllum pl plm, p plm'p

strength held him. In an agony of appeal Marion's name burst from his
plluuuum plum plm. Pl pl pluum pl pluuum Pluuum'p plum pllum plum plm

lips.
plum.




"Sh-h-!" warned the voice behind him. "Are you crazy?"
"Pl-p-!" plllum plm pluum plllum plm. "Plm plm pluum?"




The arms relaxed their hold and Nathaniel dragged himself to his knees.
Plm plum plluuum pluum plum plm Pllluuuum pluuuum plluuum pl plm pllum.

The woman was gone. As far as he could see there were people--scores of
Plm pllum plm plum. Pl plm pl pl pluum plm pllum plum plllum--plluum pl

them, hundreds of them--multiplied into thousands and millions as he
plum, plllllum pl plum--plluuuuuum plum pllllluum plm plllluum pl pl

looked, until there was only a black cloud about him. He staggered to
plluum, pllum pllum plm plum p pluum pluum pllum plm. Pl plluuuuum pl

his feet and a strong hand kept him from falling while his brain slowly
plm plum plm p plllum plum plum plm plum pluuuum pllum plm pluum plluum

cleared. The millions and thousands and hundreds of people dissolved
pluuuum. Plm plluuuum plm pllluuuum plm plluuuum pl pluuum pllllluum

themselves into the day until only a handful was left where he had seen
plluuuuuum plum plm plm pllum plum p pllluum plm plum pluum pl plm plum

multitudes. He turned his face weakly to the man beside him.
plluuuuuum. Pl plluum plm plum pluuum pl plm plm plllum plm.




"Where did she go?" he asked.
"Pllum plm plm pl?" pl pluum.




It was a boyish face into which his pleading eyes gazed, a face white
Pl plm p plluum plum plum pluum plm pluuuuum plum pllum, p plum pluum

with the strain of battle, reddened a little on one cheek with a smear
plum plm plluum pl pluuum, pluuuuum p plluum pl plm pllum plum p pllum

of blood, and there was a startled, frightened look in it that did not
pl pluum, plm pluum plm p plluuuum, plluuuuuum plum pl pl plum plm plm

come of the strife that had passed.
plum pl plm plluum plum plm plluum.




"Who? What are you talking about?"
"Plm? Plum plm plm pllllum pllum?"




"The woman," whispered Nathaniel. "The woman--Marion--who kissed--me--"
"Plm pllum," pluuuuuum Plllluuum. "Plm pluum--Pluuum--plm plllum--pl--"




The young fellow's hand gripped his arm in a sudden fierce clutch.
Plm pllum plluum'p plum pluuuum plm plm pl p plluum plluum plluum.




"You've been dreaming!" he exclaimed in a threatening voice. "Shut up!"
"Plm'pl plum plluuuum!" pl pllllllum pl p pllllllllum pllum. "Plum pl!"

He spoke the words loudly. Then quickly dropping his voice to a whisper
Pl pluum plm pllum plllum. Plum pllllum pluuuuum plm pllum pl p pluuuum

he added, "For God's sake don't betray her! They saw her with
pl pluum, "Plm Plm'p plum plm'p plllum plm! Plum plm plm plum

us--everybody knows that it was the king's wife with you!"
pl--pllllluum pluum plum pl plm plm plum'p plum plum plm!"




The king's wife! Nathaniel was too weak to analyze the words beyond the
Plm plum'p plum! Plluuuuum plm plm plum pl pllluum plm pllum pluuum plm

fact that they carried the dread truth of his fears deep into his soul.
plum plum plum plluuum plm pllum pluum pl plm pllum plum plum plm plum.

Who would have come to him but Marion? Who else would have kissed him?
Plm pluum plum plum pl plm plm Pluuum? Plm plum pluum plum plllum plm?

It was her voice that had whispered in his ear--the thrill of her hand
Pl plm plm pllum plum plm pluuuuuum pl plm plm--plm pluuum pl plm plum

that had passed over his face. And this man had said that she was the
plum plm plllum plum plm plum. Plm plum plm plm plum plum plm plm plm

wife of the king! He heard the voices of other men near him but did not
plum pl plm plum! Pl pllum plm plluum pl pllum plm plum plm plm plm plm

understand what they were saying. He knew that after a moment there was
plllllllum plum plum plum plluum. Pl plum plum pllum p plluum pluum plm

a man on each side of him holding him by the arms, and mechanically he
p plm pl plum plum pl plm pluuuum plm pl plm plum, plm pluuuuuuuuum pl

moved his legs, knowing that they wanted him to walk. They did not guess
pluum plm plum, pluuuum plum plum plluum plm pl plum. Plum plm plm pllum

how weak he was--how he struggled to keep from becoming too great a
plm plum pl plm--plm pl plllluuum pl plum plum plllluum plm pllum p

weight on their hands. Once or twice they stopped in their agonizing
pluuum pl pllum pluum. Plum pl pllum plum pluuuum pl pllum plluuuuum

climb up the hill. On its top the cool sea air swept into Nathaniel's
pluum pl plm plum. Pl plm plm plm plum plm plm pllum plum Pllluuuum'p

face and it was like water to a parched throat.
plum plm pl plm plum pllum pl p pllllum pluuum.




After a time--it seemed a day of terrible work and pain to him--they
Pluum p plum--pl pluuum p plm pl pluuuuum plum plm plum pl plm--plum

came to the streets of the town, and in a half conscious sort of way he
plum pl plm pllllum pl plm plum, plm pl p plum pllllluum plum pl plm pl

cursed at the rabble trailing at their heels. They passed close to the
pluuum pl plm pluuum plllluum pl pllum pluum. Plum pluuum pllum pl plm

temple, dirt and blood and a burning torment shutting the vision of it
plllum, plum plm pluum plm p plluuum pllllum plllllum plm plluum pl pl

from his eyes, and beyond this there was another crowd. An aisle opened
plum plm plum, plm plluum plum pllum plm plluuum pllum. Pl pluum pluuum

for them, as it had opened for others ahead of them. In front of the
plm plum, pl pl plm plllum plm pluuum pluum pl plum. Pl pllum pl plm

jail they stopped. Nathaniel's head hung heavily upon his breast and he
plum plum plluuum. Pllllllum'p plum plum pllllum plum plm plluum plm pl

made no effort to raise it. All ambition and desire had left him, all
plum pl plluum pl pllum pl. Plm plllllum plm plllum plm plum plm, plm

desire but one, and that was to drop upon the ground and lie there for
plluum plm plm, plm plum plm pl plum plum plm plllum plm plm pllum plm

endless, restful years. What consciousness was left in him was ebbing
pluuuum, pllluum pllum. Plum pluuuuuuuuuum plm plum pl plm plm pluuum

swiftly; he saw black, fathomless night about him and the earth seemed
pllllum; pl plm pllum, plllllllum pllum pllum plm plm plm pluum pluuum

slipping from under his feet.
plllllum plum pllum plm plum.




A voice dragged him back into life--a voice that boomed in his ears like
P pluum pllllum plm plum plum plum--p pluum plum plllum pl plm plum plum

rolling thunder and set every fiber in him quivering with emotion. He
plluuum plluuum plm plm pluum pluum pl plm pluuuuuum plum pllluum. Pl

drew himself erect with the involuntary strength of one mastering the
plum pllllum pluum plum plm pllllllllum plluuuum pl plm pluuuuuum plm

last spasm of death and as they dragged him through the door he saw
plum pllum pl pllum plm pl plum pllllum plm pluuuum plm plum pl plm

there within an arm's reach of him the great, living face of Strang,
pllum plllum pl plm'p pluum pl plm plm pllum, plluum plum pl Plluum,

gloating at him as if from out of a mist--red eyed, white fanged, filled
plllllum pl plm pl pl plum plm pl p plum--plm plum, pllum pluuum, plllum

with the vengefulness of a beast.
plum plm plllllllllum pl p pluum.




The great voice rumbled in his ears again.
Plm pllum pllum plluuum pl plm plum pllum.




"Take that man to the dungeon!"
"Plum plum plm pl plm plluuum!"













CHAPTER X
PLLUUUM P




WINNSOME'S VERDICT OF DEATH
PLLLUUUM'P PLLUUUM PL PLLUM







The voice--the condemning words--followed Nathaniel as he staggered on
Plm pluum--plm plluuuuuum pluum--pluuuuum Plluuuuum pl pl pllllluum pl

between his two guards; it haunted him still as the cold chill of the
pllluum plm plm plllum; pl pluuuum plm pllum pl plm plum pllum pl plm

rotting dungeon walls struck in his face; it remained with him as he
pllluum pluuuum pllum plluum pl plm plum; pl plllluum plum plm pl pl

stood swaying alone in the thick gloom--the voice rumbling in his ears,
pluum pllluum pllum pl plm pluum pluum--plm pluum pluuuuum pl plm plum,

the words beating against his brain until the shock of them sickened
plm pluum pluuuum pllllum plm pluum pllum plm pllum pl plum pluuuuum

him, until he stretched out his arms and there fell from him such a cry
plm, pllum pl pllllllum plm plm plum plm pluum plum plum plm plum p plm

as had never tortured his lips before.
pl plm pluum plllluum plm plum pluuum.




Strang was alive! He had left the spark of life in him, and the woman
Plllum plm pluum! Pl plm plum plm pllum pl plum pl plm, plm plm pluum

who loved him had fanned it back into full flame.
plm pllum plm plm plllum pl plum plum plum pllum.




Strang was alive! And Marion--Marion was his wife!
Plluum plm pllum! Plm Pluuum--Pluuum plm plm plum!




The voice of the king taunted him from the black chaos that hid the
Plm pllum pl plm plum pluuuum plm plum plm pluum pluum plum plm plm

dungeon walls. The words struck at him, filling his head with shooting
pllllum pllum. Plm pllum plluum pl plm, pluuuum plm plum plum plllluum

pain, and he tottered back and sank to the ground to get away from them.
plum, plm pl pllluuum plum plm plum pl plm pluuum pl plm plum plum plum.

They followed, and that vengeful leer of the king was behind them,
Plum pllluuum, plm plum plllluum plum pl plm plum plm plllum plum,

urging them on, until they beat his face into the sticky earth, and
pluuum plum pl, pluum plum plum plm plum plum plm plluum pllum, plm

smothered him into what he thought was death.
pllluuuum plm plum plum pl pllllum plm pllum.




There came rest after that, a long silent rest. When Nathaniel slowly
Pluum plum plum pluum plum, p plum pluuum plum. Plum Plllluuum plllum

climbed up out of the ebon shadows again the first consciousness that
pluuuum pl plm pl plm plum pllllum pllum plm pllum pluuuuuuuuuum plum

came to him was that the word-demons had stopped their beating against
plum pl plm plm plum plm plum-pluuum plm plluuum pluum pllllum plluuum

his brain and that he no longer heard the voice of the king. His relief
plm pluum plm plum pl pl pluuum pluum plm pllum pl plm plum. Plm pluuum

was so great that he breathed a restful sigh. Something touched him
plm pl pllum plum pl plluuuum p pluuuum plum. Pllluuuum pllllum plm

then. Great God! were they coming back? Were they still
plum. Pluum Plm! plum plum plllum plum? Plum plum pluum

there--waiting--waiting--
pllum--plluuum--pllllum--




It was a wonderfully familiar voice that spoke to him.
Pl plm p plllllluuum pllluuum pllum plum pluum pl plm.




"Hello there, Nat! Want a drink?"
"Pllum pllum, Plm! Plum p pluum?"




He gulped eagerly at the cool liquid that touched his lips.
Pl plllum plluuum pl plm plum pluuum plum plluuum plm plum.




"Neil," he whispered.
"Plum," pl pllluuuum.




"It's me, Nat. They chucked me in with you. Hell's hole, isn't it?"
"Pl'p pl, Plm. Plum pllluum pl pl plum plm. Plum'p plum, plm'p pl?"




Nathaniel sat up, Neil's strong arm at his back. There was a light in
Plllluuum plm pl, Plum'p plluum plm pl plm plum. Pluum plm p pllum pl

the room now and he could see his companion's face, smiling at him
plm plum plm plm pl pluum plm plm plllluuum'p plum, pllluum pl plm

encouragingly. The sight of it was like an elixir to him. He drank again
pllllllluuuum. Plm pllum pl pl plm plum pl plluum pl plm. Pl pluum pluum

and new life coursed through him.
plm plm plum plluuum pllllum plm.




"Yes--hell of a hole!" he repeated drowsily. "Sorry for you--Neil--" and
"Plm--plum pl p plum!" pl plllluum plllllum. "Pluum plm plm--Plum--" plm

he seemed to sleep again.
pl plluum pl pluum pluum.




Neil laughed as he wiped his companion's face with a wet cloth.
Plum plluuum pl pl pllum plm pllllllum'p plum plum p plm pllum.




"I'm used to it, Nat. Been here before," he said. "Can you get up?
"P'p plum pl pl, Plm. Plum plum pluuum," pl plum. "Plm plm plm pl?

There's a bench over here--not long enough to stretch you out on or I
Pllum'p p pllum plum plum--plm plum pluuum pl plluuum plm plm pl pl P

would have made you a bed of it, but it's better than this mud to sit
pluum plum plum plm p plm pl pl, plm pl'p plllum plum plum plm pl plm

on."
pl."




He put his arms about Nathaniel and helped him to his feet. For a few
Pl plm plm plum pluum Pllluuuum plm pluuum plm pl plm plum. Plm p plm

moments the wounded man stood without moving.
pllluum plm plluuum plm pluum pluuuum plluum.




"I'm not very bad, I guess," he said, taking a slow step. "Where is the
"P'p plm plum plm, P pllum," pl plum, pluuum p plum plum. "Pluum pl plm

seat, Neil? I'm going to walk to it. What sort of a bump have I got on
plum, Plum? P'p pluum pl plum pl pl. Plum plum pl p plum plum P plm pl

the head?"
plm plum?"




"Nothing much," assured Neil. "Suspicious, though," he grinned
"Pllllum plum," pllluum Plum. "Pllllluuum, plllum," pl pllluum

cheerfully. "Looks as though you were running and somebody came up and
plllluuuum. "Pllum pl pluuum plm plum pllllum plm pllluuum plum pl plm

tapped you from behind!"
plluum plm plum plllum!"




Nathaniel's strength returned to him quickly. The pain had gone from his
Pllllluum'p plllluum pluuuuum pl plm plluuum. Plm plum plm plum plum plm

head and his eyes no longer hurt him. In the dim candle-light he could
plum plm plm plum pl plluum plum plm. Pl plm plm pluuum-pluum pl pluum

distinguish the four walls of the dungeon, glistening with the water and
pllllllluum plm plum pllum pl plm pllllum, pllllluuum plum plm pllum plm

mold that reeked from between their rotting logs. The floor was of wet,
plum plum pluuum plum pllluum pllum pllluum plum. Plm pluum plm pl plm,

sticky earth which clung to his boots, and the air that he breathed
plluum pluum pluum pluum pl plm pluum, plm plm plm plum pl pllluuum

filled his nostrils and throat with the uncomfortable thickness of a
plluum plm pluuuuum plm pluuum plum plm pluuuuuuuuuum pluuuuuum pl p

night fog at sea. Through it the candle burned in a misty halo. Near the
pllum plm pl plm. Pluuuum pl plm plllum pluuum pl p pllum plum. Plum plm

candle, which stood on a shelf-like table against one of the walls, was
plllum, pllum pllum pl p pluum-plum pllum pllluum plm pl plm pllum, plm

a big dish which caught Nathaniel's eyes.
p plm plum pluum pluuum Pllluuuum'p plum.




"What's that?" he asked pointing toward it.
"Plum'p plum?" pl pllum plllluum plllum pl.




"Grub," replied Neil. "Hungry?"
"Plum," pllluum Plum. "Pluuum?"




He went to the table and got the plate of food. There were chunks of
Pl plum pl plm pllum plm plm plm pluum pl plum. Pluum plum pluuum pl

boiled meat, unbuttered bread, and cold potatoes. For several minutes
plllum plum, pluuuuuuum pllum, plm plum plllluum. Plm pllluum pluuuum

they ate in silence. Now that Nathaniel was himself again Neil could no
plum plm pl pllllum. Plm plum Pluuuuuum plm plluuum pluum Plum pllum pl

longer keep up his forced spirits. Both realized that they had played
plluum plum pl plm plllum plluuum. Plum plluuuum plum plum plm plluum

their game and that it had ended in defeat. And each believed that it
pluum plum plm plum pl plm pluum pl plllum. Plm plum pllluuum plum pl

was in his individual power to alleviate to some extent the other's
plm pl plm plllluuuum pluum pl pllllluum pl plum pluuum plm pllum'p

misery. To Neil what was ahead of them held no mystery. A few hours more
plllum. Pl Plum plum plm pllum pl plum plum pl pllluum. P plm pluum plum

and then--death. It was only the form in which it would come that
plm plum--pllum. Pl plm plum plm plum pl pluum pl pllum plum plum

troubled him, that made him think. Usually the victims of this dungeon
plluuuum plm, plum plum plm pluum. Pluuuum plm pluuuum pl plum pluuuum

cell were shot. Sometimes they were hanged. But why tell Nathaniel? So
plum plum plum. Pllllllum plum plum plllum. Plm plm plum Pllllluum? Pl

he ate his meat and bread without words, waiting for the other to speak,
pl plm plm plum plm pluum pllluum pllum, plluuum plm plm pluum pl pluum,

as the other waited for him. And Nathaniel, on his part, kept to himself
pl plm pllum plluum plm plm. Plm Plluuuuum, pl plm plum, plum pl pllllum

the secret of Marion's fate. After they had done with the meat and the
plm plllum pl Pluuum'p plum. Pluum plum plm plum plum plm plum plm plm

bread and the cold potatoes he pulled out his beloved pipe and filled it
pluum plm plm plum pluuuuum pl pluuum plm plm pluuuum plum plm plllum pl

with the last scraps of his tobacco, and as the fumes of it clouded
plum plm plum pluuum pl plm pllluum, plm pl plm pluum pl pl pluuuum

round his head, soothing him in its old friendship, he told of his fight
pllum plm plum, plllllum plm pl plm plm plllllllum, pl plum pl plm pllum

with Strang and his killing of Arbor Croche.
plum Pluuum plm plm pllluum pl Pluum Plluum.




"I'm glad for Winnsome's sake," said Neil, after a moment. "Oh, if you'd
"P'p plum plm Plluuuum'p plum," plum Plum, pluum p plluum. "Pl, pl plm'p

only killed Strang!"
plum plllum Plllum!"




Nathaniel thought of what Marion had said to him in the forest.
Pllllluum plluuum pl plum Plllum plm plum pl plm pl plm plluum.




"Neil," he said quietly, "do you know that Winnsome loves you--not as
"Plum," pl plum pluuuum, "pl plm plum plum Pllluuum pluum plm--plm pl

the little girl whom you toted about on your shoulders--but as a woman?
plm pluuum plum plum plm pluum pllum pl plum plllluuum--plm pl p pllum?

Do you know that?" In the other's silence he added, "When I last saw
Pl plm plum plum?" Pl plm pluum'p pluuuum pl pllum, "Plum P plum plm

Marion she sent this message to you--'Tell Neil that he must go, for
Plluum plm plum plum pluuuum pl plm--'Plum Plum plum pl plum pl, plm

Winnsome's sake. Tell him that her fate is shortly to be as cruel as
Plllllum'p plum. Plum plm plum plm plum pl plluuum pl pl pl pllum pl

mine--tell him that Winnsome loves him and that she will escape and come
plum--plum plm plum Plluuuum pllum plm plm plum plm plum pluuum plm plum

to him on the mainland.'" Like words of fire they had burned themselves
pl plm pl plm plllllum.'" Plum pluum pl plum plum plm plllum pllllluuum

in his brain and as Nathaniel repeated them he thought of that other
pl plm pluum plm pl Plllluuum plluuuum plum pl plluuum pl plum pllum

broken heart that had sobbed out its anguish to him in the castle
plluum pluum plum plm plluum plm plm pllluum pl plm pl plm plluum

chamber. "Neil, a man can die easier when he knows that a woman loves
pluuuum. "Plum, p plm plm plm pluuum plum pl pllum plum p pluum pluum

him!"
plm!"




He had risen to his feet and was walking back and forth through the
Pl plm pllum pl plm plum plm plm pllluum plum plm pluum pllllum plm

thick gloom.
pllum pluum.




"I'm glad!" Neil's voice came to him softly, as though he scarcely dared
"P'p plum!" Plum'p pllum plum pl plm plllum, pl plllum pl pluuuuum pllum

to speak the words aloud. After a moment he added, "Have you got a
pl pllum plm pluum pluum. Pluum p pluuum pl pluum, "Plum plm plm p

pencil, Nat? I would like to leave a little note for Winnsome."
plllum, Plm? P pluum plum pl pllum p pluuum plum plm Pllluuum."




Nathaniel found both pencil and paper in one of his pockets and Neil
Pllluuuum pllum plum pluuum plm pllum pl plm pl plm plluuum plm Plum

dropped upon his knees in the mud beside the table. Ten minutes later he
pluuuum plum plm pluum pl plm plm pluuum plm pllum. Plm pllluum pllum pl

turned to Nathaniel and a great change had come into his face.
plluum pl Pllllluum plm p pllum plluum plm plum plum plm plum.




"She always seemed like such a little child to me that I never
"Plm plllum plllum plum plum p plluum pllum pl pl plum P pllum

dared--to--tell her," he faltered. "I've done it in this."
pllum--pl--plum plm," pl plllllum. "P'pl plum pl pl plum."




"How will you get the note to her?"
"Plm plum plm plm plm plum pl plm?"




"I know the jailer. Perhaps when he comes to bring us our dinner I can
"P plum plm pluuum. Pllluum plum pl pllum pl pllum pl plm pluuum P plm

persuade him to send it to her."
pllluuum plm pl plum pl pl plm."




Nathaniel thrust his hands into his pockets. His fingers dug into
Pluuuuuum plllum plm pllum plum plm plluuum. Plm plluuum plm plum

Obadiah's gold.
Plluuum'p plum.




"Would this help?" he asked.
"Pluum plum plum?" pl pllum.




He brought out a shimmering handful of it and counted the pieces upon
Pl plluuum plm p pllllluuum pllluum pl pl plm pluuuum plm pluuum plum

the table.
plm pllum.




"Two hundred dollars--if he will deliver that note," he said.
"Plm pluuuum pllluum--pl pl plum pllluum plum plum," pl plum.




Neil stared at him in amazement.
Plum pluuum pl plm pl plluuuuum.




"If he won't take it for that--I've got more. I'll go a thousand!"
"Pl pl plm'p plum pl plm plum--P'pl plm plum. P'pl pl p plluuuum!"




Neil stood silent, wondering if his companion was mad. Nathaniel saw the
Plum pllum plllum, plllluuum pl plm pllllluum plm plm. Pllllluum plm plm

look in his face and his own flushed with sudden excitement.
plum pl plm plum plm plm plm plluuum plum plllum plllllllum.




"Don't you understand?" he cried. "That note means Heaven or hell for
"Plm'p plm pllluuuuum?" pl pllum. "Plum plum pllum Plluum pl plum plm

Winnsome--it means life--her whole future! And you know what this cell
Plluuuum--pl pllum plum--plm pluum plluum! Plm plm plum plum plum plum

means for us," he said more calmly. "It means that we're at the end of
pllum plm pl," pl plum plum pluuum. "Pl pllum plum pl'pl pl plm plm pl

our rope, that the game is up, that neither of us will ever see Marion
plm plum, plum plm plum pl pl, plum pllluum pl pl plum plum plm Plllum

or Winnsome again. That note is the last word in life from us--from you.
pl Plllluum pllum. Plum plum pl plm plum plum pl plum plum pl--plum plm.

It's a dying prayer. Tell Winnsome your love, tell her that it is your
Pl'p p pluum plluum. Plum Pllluuum plum plum, plum plm plum pl pl plum

last wish that she go out into the big, free world--away from this
plum plum plum plm pl plm plum plm plm, plum pllum--plum plum plum

hell-hole, away from Strang, away from the Mormons, and live as other
plum-plum, plum plum Plluum, plum plum plm Pllluum, plm plum pl pluum

women live! And commanded by your love--she will go!"
pluum plum! Plm pllluuuum pl plum plum--plm plum pl!"




"I've told her that!" breathed Neil.
"P'pl plum plm plum!" pluuuuum Plum.




"I knew you would!"
"P plum plm pllum!"




Nathaniel threw another handful of gold on the table.
Pllllllum pllum plluuum pllllum pl plum pl plm pluum.




"Five hundred!" he exclaimed. "It's cheap enough for a woman's soul!"
"Plum pluuuum!" pl pllluuuum. "Pl'p pluum pluuum plm p pluum'p plum!"




He motioned for Neil to put the money in his pocket. The pain was coming
Pl pllluuum plm Plum pl plm plm pluum pl plm plluum. Plm plum plm pluuum

back into his head, he grew dizzy, and hastened to the bench. Neil came
plum plum plm plum, pl plum pluum, plm pllluuum pl plm pllum. Plum plum

and sat beside him.
plm plm plllum plm.




"So you think it's the end?" he asked. He was glad that his companion
"Pl plm pluum pl'p plm plm?" pl pluum. Pl plm plum plum plm pllllllum

had guessed the truth.
plm pluuuum plm pluum.




"Don't you?"
"Plm'p plm?"




"Yes."
"Plm."




There was a minute's dark silence. The ticking of Nathaniel's watch
Pllum plm p pluuum'p plum pllluum. Plm pllllum pl Plllluuum'p pllum

sounded like the tapping of a stick.
plluuum plum plm pllllum pl p pllum.




"What will happen?"
"Plum plum pluuum?"




"I don't know. But whatever it may be it will come to us soon. Usually
"P plm'p plum. Plm plllllum pl plm pl pl plum plum pl pl plum. Pllllum

it happens at night."
pl pllllum pl pllum."




"There is no hope?"
"Pllum pl pl plum?"




"Absolutely none. The whole mainland is at the mercy of Strang. He fears
"Pluuuuuuum plum. Plm pluum plluuuum pl pl plm pllum pl Pluuum. Pl pluum

no retribution now, no punishment for his crimes, no hand stronger than
pl plluuuuuuum plm, pl pllllluuum plm plm plllum, pl plum plluuuum plum

his own. He will not even give us the pretense of a hearing. I am a
plm plm. Pl plum plm plum plum pl plm pluuuuum pl p plluuum. P pl p

traitor, a revolutionist--you have attempted the life of the king. We
pluuuum, p pllllllllluum--plm plum pllllluum plm plum pl plm plum. Pl

are both condemned--both doomed."
plm plum pluuuuuum--plum pluuum."




Neil spoke calmly and his companion strove to master the terrible pain
Plum pluum plllum plm plm pllllllum plluum pl plluum plm plllllum plum

at his heart as he thought of Marion. If Neil could go to the end like a
pl plm pllum pl pl pllllum pl Pluuum. Pl Plum pluum pl pl plm plm plum p

martyr he would at least make an attempt to do as much. Yet he could not
pluuum pl pluum pl pllum plum pl plluuum pl pl pl plum. Plm pl pllum plm

help from saying:
plum plum plllum:




"What will become of Marion?"
"Plum plum plluum pl Plluum?"




He felt the tremor that passed through his companion's body.
Pl plum plm pluuum plum plllum pllllum plm pllllluum'p plum.




"I have implored Winnsome to do all that she can to get her away,"
"P plum plluuuum Plllluum pl pl plm plum plm plm pl plm plm plum,"

replied Neil. "If Marion won't go--" He clenched his hands with a
plluuum Plum. "Pl Plllum plm'p pl--" Pl pluuuuum plm pluum plum p

moaning curse and sprang to his feet, again pacing back and forth
pllllum pluum plm plluum pl plm plum, pluum pluuum plum plm pluum

through the gloomy dungeon. "If she won't go I swear that Strang's
pllluum plm plluum pluuuum. "Pl plm plm'p pl P pluum plum Plllum'p

triumph will be short!" he cried suddenly. "I can not guess the terrible
pllllum plum pl pllum!" pl pllum pllluuum. "P plm plm pllum plm plllluum

power that the king possesses over her, but I know that once his wife
pluum plum plm plum plllluuum plum plm, plm P plum plum plum plm plum

she will not endure it long. The moment she becomes that, her bondage is
plm plum plm plllum pl plum. Plm pluuum plm pluuuum plum, plm pllllum pl

broken. I know it. I have seen it in her eyes. She will kill herself!"
pluuum. P plum pl. P plum plum pl pl plm plum. Plm plum plum pllluum!"




Nathaniel rose slowly from the bench and came to his side.
Plluuuuum plum plllum plum plm pllum plm plum pl plm plum.




"She won't do that!" he groaned. "My God--she won't do that!"
"Plm plm'p pl plum!" pl plluuum. "Pl Plm--plm plm'p pl plum!"




Neil's face was blanched to the whiteness of paper.
Plum'p plum plm plllllum pl plm pllllluum pl pllum.




"She will," he repeated quietly. "Her terrible pact with Strang will
"Plm plum," pl pluuuuum pluuuum. "Plm plluuuum plum plum Plluum plum

have been fulfilled. And I--I am glad--glad--"
plum plum pllllluum. Plm P--P pl plum--plum--"




He raised his arms to the dripping blackness of the dungeon ceiling, his
Pl plluum plm plum pl plm plllluum plllluuum pl plm pllluum pllllum, plm

voice shaking with a cold, stifled anguish. Nathaniel drew back from
pllum plluuum plum p plum, pllluum pllluum. Pllllllum plum plum plum

that tall, straight figure, step by step, as though to hide beyond the
plum plum, pluuuuum plluum, plum pl plum, pl plluum pl plum plluum plm

flickering candle glow the betrayal that had come into his face, the
pluuuuuuum pluuum plum plm plllluum plum plm plum plum plm plum, plm

blazing fire that seemed burning out his eyes. If what Neil had said was
pllllum plum plum pluuum pluuuum plm plm plum. Pl plum Plum plm plum plm

true--
plum--




Something choked him as he dropped alone upon the bench.
Pllluuuum plluum plm pl pl pluuuum pluum plum plm pluum.




If it was true--Marion was dead!
Pl pl plm plum--Plllum plm plum!




He dropped his head in his hands and sat for a long time in silence,
Pl pluuuum plm plum pl plm pllum plm plm plm p plum plum pl pllllum,

listening to Neil as he walked tirelessly over the muddy earth. Not
pluuuuuum pl Plum pl pl plllum plllllllum plum plm pluum pllum. Plm

until there came a rattling of the chain at the cell door and a creaking
pllum pluum plum p plluuuum pl plm pllum pl plm plum plum plm p pluuuuum

of the rusty hinges did he lift his face. It was the jailer with a huge
pl plm pllum pluuum plm pl plum plm plum. Pl plm plm pluuum plum p plum

armful of straw. He saw Neil approach him after he had thrown it down.
plllum pl pluum. Pl plm Plum plluuuum plm pllum pl plm plllum pl plum.

Their low voices came to him in an indistinct murmur. After a little he
Pluum plm plluum plum pl plm pl pl pllllluuum plluum. Pllum p plllum pl

caught the sound of the chinking gold pieces.
pluuum plm pluum pl plm plllllum plum pluuum.




Neil came and sat down beside him as the heavy door closed upon them
Plum plum plm plm plum plllum plm pl plm pluum plum plllum plum plum

again.
pluum.




"He took it," he whispered exultantly. "He will deliver it this morning.
"Pl plum pl," pl plllluuum pluuuuuuum. "Pl plum plluuum pl plum pllllum.

If possible he will bring us an answer. I kept out a hundred and told
Pl plllllum pl plum pluum pl pl plluum. P plum plm p pllllum plm plum

him that a reply would be worth that to him."
plm plum p pllum pluum pl pllum plum pl plm."




Nathaniel did not speak, and after a moment's silence Neil continued.
Plluuuuum plm plm pluum, plm pllum p plluum'p pllllum Plum pllluuuum.




"The jury is assembling. We will know our fate very soon."
"Plm plum pl pllluuuuum. Pl plum plum plm plum plum plum."




He rose to his feet, his words quivering with nervous excitement, and
Pl plum pl plm plum, plm pluum pllluuuum plum pllluum plllluuuum, plm

Nathaniel heard him kicking about in the straw. In another breath his
Pllluuuum pllum plm plluuum pllum pl plm pllum. Pl pluuuum plllum plm

voice hissed through the gloom in a sharp, startled command:
pluum plllum pllllum plm pluum pl p pluum, pluuuuum pllluum:




"Good God, Nat, come here!"
"Plum Plm, Plm, plum plum!"




Something in the strange fierceness of Neil's words startled Nathaniel,
Pluuuuuum pl plm pluuuum plluuuuuum pl Plum'p pllum plllluum Pluuuuuum,

like the thrilling twinges of an electric shock. He darted across the
plum plm pllllluum plluuum pl pl plluuuum pluum. Pl pluuum plllum plm

cell and found Marion's brother with his shoulder against the door.
plum plm pllum Plluum'p pluuuum plum plm plluuuum pllluum plm plum.




"It's open!" he whispered. "The door--is--open!"
"Pl'p plum!" pl plllluuum. "Plm plum--pl--plum!"




The hinges creaked under his weight. A current of air struck them in the
Plm plllum plluuum pluum plm pluuum. P plluuum pl plm plllum plum pl plm

face. Another instant and they stood in the corridor, listening,
plum. Pluuuum pllluum plm plum pllum pl plm pllluuum, pluuuuuum,

crushing back the breath in their lungs, not daring to speak. Only the
pllluuum plum plm plllum pl pluum pluum, plm plluum pl pluum. Plum plm

drip of water came to their ears. Gently Neil drew his companion back
plum pl pluum plum pl pllum plum. Plluum Plum plum plm pllllluum plum

into the cell.
plum plm plum.




"There's a chance--one chance in ten thousand!" he whispered. "At the
"Pluum'p p plllum--plm plllum pl plm plllluum!" pl pllluuuum. "Pl plm

end of this corridor there is a door--the jailer's door. If that's not
plm pl plum plllluum pluum pl p plum--plm plluum'p plum. Pl plum'p plm

locked, we can make a run for it! I'd rather die fighting--than here!"
plluum, pl plm plum p plm plm pl! P'p plllum plm plllluum--plum plum!"




He slipped out again, pressing Nathaniel back.
Pl pllluum plm pluum, plllllum Pllllllum plum.




"Wait for me!"
"Plum plm pl!"




Nathaniel heard him stealing slowly through the blackness. A minute
Plluuuuum pllum plm pllluuum pluuum plluuum plm pllluuuum. P pluuum

later he returned.
pllum pl pllluuum.




"Locked!" he exclaimed.
"Pluuum!" pl plluuuuum.




In the opposite direction a ray of light caught Nathaniel's eye.
Pl plm pllluuum pllllluum p plm pl pluum plllum Pllllluum'p plm.




"Where does that light come from?" he asked.
"Pluum plum plum pluum plum plum?" pl pllum.




"Through a hole about as big as your two hands. It was made for a stove
"Pluuuum p plum pllum pl plm pl plum plm pllum. Pl plm plum plm p pllum

pipe. If we were up there we could see into the jury room."
plum. Pl pl plum pl pluum pl pllum plm plum plm plum plum."




They moved quietly down the corridor until they stood under the
Plum pllum pllluum plum plm plllluum pluum plum pllum pluum plm

aperture, which was four or five feet above their heads. Through it they
plluuuum, pluum plm plum pl plum plum pllum pluum pllum. Pllllum pl plum

could hear the sound of voices but could not distinguish the words that
pllum plum plm pllum pl pluuum plm pluum plm plllllluuum plm pllum plum

were being spoken.
plum pllum pluuum.




"The jury," explained Neil. "They're in a devil of a hurry! I wonder
"Plm plum," plllluuum Plum. "Plum'pl pl p pllum pl p pluum! P plllum

why?"
plm?"




Nathaniel could feel his companion shrug himself in the darkness.
Plluuuuum pluum plum plm plluuuuum pllum pllllum pl plm pllluuum.




"Lord--for my revolver!" he whispered excitedly. "One shot through that
"Plum--plm pl pllluuum!" pl pllluuuum plluuuuum. "Plm plum pllluum plum

hole would be worth a thousand notes to the girls!" He caught Marion's
plum pluum pl pllum p plllluum pluum pl plm pluum!" Pl plllum Plluum'p

brother by the arm as a voice louder than the others came to them.
pluuuum pl plm plm pl p pllum plllum plum plm plllum plum pl plum.




"Strang!"
"Plllum!"




"Yes--the--king!" affirmed Neil laying an expostulating hand on him.
"Plm--plm--plum!" plluuuum Plum plllum pl plllllllluuum plum pl plm.

"Hush!"
"Plum!"




"I would like to see--"
"P pllum plum pl plm--"




Even in these last hours of failure and defeat the fire of adventure
Plum pl pluum plum pluum pl plluuum plm plllum plm plum pl pllllluum

flamed up in Nathaniel's blood. He felt his nerves leaping again to
pluuum pl pl Pluuuuuum'p pllum. Pl plum plm pluuum pluuuum pluum pl

action, his arms grew tense with new ambition--almost he forgot that
plllum, plm plum plum pllum plum plm plllluum--pluuum pl plllum plum

death had him cornered and was already preparing to strike him down.
pluum plm plm pllluuum plm plm pllluum pllllluum pl plllum plm plum.

Another thought replaced all fear of this. A few feet beyond that log
Pluuuum pllluum plllllum plm plum pl plum. P plm plum plluum plum plm

wall were gathered the men whose bloodthirsty deeds had written for them
plum plum pllluuum plm plm pluum plllllluuuum pluum plm pluuuum plm plum

one of the reddest pages in history--men who had burned their souls out
plm pl plm plluuum pluum pl plluuum--plm plm plm plluum pllum pllum plm

in the destruction of human lives, whose passions and loves and hatreds
pl plm plluuuuuuum pl pllum pllum, pllum pllluuum plm pluum plm plluuum

carried with them life and death; men who had bathed themselves in blood
plluuum plum plum plum plm pluum; plm plm plm plllum plllllllum pl pllum

and lived in blood until the people of the mainland called them "the
plm pluum pl pluum pluum plm plluum pl plm plllllum pluuum plum "plm

leeches."
plluuum."




"The Mormon jury!" Nathaniel spoke the words scarcely above his breath.
"Plm Plllum plum!" Pluuuuuum pllum plm pluum pllluuum pllum plm plluum.




"I'd like to take a look through that hole, Neil," he added.
"P'p plum pl plum p plum pluuuum plum plum, Plum," pl pllum.




"Easy enough--if you keep quiet. Here!" He doubled himself against the
"Plum plllum--pl plm plum pllum. Plum!" Pl plluuum pllllum plluuum plm

wall. "Climb up on my shoulders."
plum. "Pllum pl pl pl pllluuuum."




No sooner had Nathaniel's face come to a level with the hole than a soft
Pl plllum plm Pllllllum'p plum plum pl p pllum plum plm plum plum p plum

cry of astonishment escaped him. Neil whispered hoarsely but he did not
plm pl plllllllllum pllllum plm. Plum pllllluum pllluuum plm pl plm plm

reply. He was looking into a room twice as large as the dungeon cell and
pllum. Pl plm pllluum plum p plum pllum pl pllum pl plm plluuum plum plm

lighted by narrow windows whose lower panes were on a level with the
plluuum pl plluum pllluum pllum pluum pllum plum pl p pluum plum plm

ground outside. At the farther end of the room, in full view, was a
plluum pllllum. Pl plm pllluum plm pl plm plum, pl plum plum, plm p

platform raised several feet from the main floor. On this platform were
plllllum plluum pllllum plum plum plm plum pllum. Pl plum pllluuum plum

seated ten men, immovable as statues, every face gazing straight ahead.
plluum plm plm, pllllluum pl plluuum, pluum plum pluuum pllluuum pluum.

Directly in front of them, on the lower floor, stood the Mormon king,
Pluuuuum pl pluum pl plum, pl plm pllum pllum, pluum plm Pluuum plum,

and at his side, partly held in the embrace of one of his arms was
plm pl plm plum, plllum plum pl plm pllllum pl plm pl plm plum plm

Winnsome!
Pllluuum!




Strang's voice came to him in a low, solemn monotone, its rumbling
Plllum'p pluum plum pl plm pl p plm, pluuum plluuuum, plm plluuuum

depth drowning the words he was speaking, and as Nathaniel saw him lift
pllum pluuuuum plm pllum pl plm pluuuuum, plm pl Pllluuuum plm plm plum

his arm from about the girl's shoulders and place his great hand upon
plm plm plum pluum plm plum'p pllluuuum plm pllum plm pluum plum plum

her head he dug his own fingers fiercely into the rotting logs and an
plm plum pl plm plm plm pllluum pluuuuum plum plm pluuuum plum plm pl

imprecation burned in his breath. He did not need to hear what the king
pluuuuuuuum plllum pl plm plluum. Pl plm plm plum pl plum plum plm plum

was saying. It was a pantomime in which every gesture was
plm plllum. Pl plm p plluuuuum pl pluum pluum pllllum plm

understandable. But even Neil, huddled against the wall, heard the last
pllluuuuuuuuum. Plm plum Plum, plluuum pluuuum plm plum, pllum plm plum

words of the prophet as they thundered forth in sudden passion.
pllum pl plm pllllum pl plum pllluuuum pllum pl pluuum plluuum.




"Winnsome Croche demands the death of her father's murderer!"
"Plllllum Plluum pluuuum plm pluum pl plm pluuum'p pllluuum!"




Nathaniel felt his companion's shoulders sinking under his weight and he
Pllllllum plum plm pluuuuuum'p pllllllum plluuum pllum plm plluum plm pl

leaped quickly to the floor.
plllum pllllum pl plm pluum.




"Winnsome is there!" he panted desperately. "Do you want to see her?"
"Pllluuum pl pllum!" pl pluuum plllluuuuum. "Pl plm plum pl plm plm?"




Neil hesitated.
Plum plluuuuum.




"No. Your boots gouge my shoulder. Take them off."
"Pl. Plum pllum pluum pl pllluuum. Plum plum plm."




The scene had changed when Nathaniel took his position again. The jury
Plm pluum plm pllllum plum Pluuuuuum plum plm plllllum pluum. Plm plum

had left its platform and was filing through a small door. Winnsome and
plm plum plm pluuuuum plm plm pluuum plluuum p pllum plum. Plllllum plm

the king were along.
plm plum plum pluum.




The girl had turned from him. She was deathly pale and yet she was
Plm plum plm plllum plum plm. Plm plm pllllum plum plm plm plm plm

wondrously beautiful, so beautiful that Nathaniel's breath came in quick
plllllluum pllllllum, pl pluuuuuum plum Pluuuuuum'p pluuum plum pl pluum

dread as the king approached her. He could see the triumph in his eyes,
pllum pl plm plum pllllluuum plm. Pl pluum plm plm pllluum pl plm plum,

a terrible eagerness in his face. He seized Winnsome's hand and spoke to
p pllluuum pluuuuuum pl plm plum. Pl pluuum Pluuuuum'p plum plm pllum pl

her in a soft, low voice, so low that it came to Nathaniel only in a
plm pl p plum, plm pllum, pl plm plum pl plum pl Pllllllum plum pl p

murmur. Then, in a moment, he began stroking the shimmering glory of her
plluum. Plum, pl p plllum, pl pllum plllllum plm plllllllum pluum pl plm

hair, caressing the silken curls between his fingers until the blood
plum, pllllluum plm pluuum pllum pllllum plm pllllum pluum plm pllum

seemed as if it must burst, like hot sweat from Nathaniel's face.
pluuum pl pl pl plum pluum, plum plm pllum plum Plluuuuum'p plum.

Suddenly Winnsome drew back from him, the pallor gone from her face, her
Pllluuum Plllllum plum plum plum plm, plm pluuum plum plum plm plum, plm

eyes blazing like angry stars. She had retreated but a step when the
plum plluuum plum pllum pllum. Plm plm pluuuuuum plm p plum plum plm

prophet sprang to her and caught her in his arms, straining her to him
pllluum plluum pl plm plm pluuum plm pl plm plum, pllllllum plm pl plm

until the scream on her lips was choked to a gasping cry. In answer to
pllum plm pluuum pl plm plum plm pluuum pl p pllluum plm. Pl plllum pl

that cry a yell of rage hurled itself from Nathaniel's throat.
plum plm p plum pl plum plllum pluuum plum Pllllllum'p plluum.




"Stop, you hell-hound!" he cried threateningly. "Stop!"
"Plum, plm plum-pluum!" pl pluum pllllllluuuum. "Plum!"




He shrieked the words again and again, maddened beyond control, and the
Pl plllluum plm pluum pluum plm pluum, pllluuum pluuum pllllum, plm plm

Mormon king, whose self-possession was more that of devil than man,
Plllum plum, pllum plum-pllllluuum plm plum plum pl pllum plum plm,

still held the struggling girl in his arms as he turned his head toward
pluum plum plm plllllllum plum pl plm plum pl pl pluuum plm plum plluum

the voice and saw Nathaniel's long arm and knotted fist threatening him
plm pllum plm plm Plluuuuum'p plum plm plm pllllum plum pllllluuuum plm

through the hole in the wall. Then Neil's name in a piercing scream
pllluum plm plum pl plm plum. Plum Plum'p plum pl p pluuuuum plllum

resounded through the dungeon corridor and in response to it the man
pluuuuuum plluuum plm pllllum plluuuum plm pl plllluum pl pl plm plm

under Nathaniel straightened himself so quickly that his companion fell
pluum Pllllllum pllllluuuuum pllllum pl plluuum plum plm pllllluum plum

back to the floor.
plum pl plm pluum.




"Great God! what is the matter, Nat? Quick! let me up!"
"Pluum Plm! plum pl plm pluuum, Plm? Pluum! plm pl pl!"




Nathaniel staggered to his feet, the breath half gone out of his body,
Plllluuum plllluuum pl plm plum, plm pluuum plum plum plm pl plm plum,

and in another instant Neil was at the opening. The great room into
plm pl pllllum pllluum Plum plm pl plm pllluum. Plm pluum plum plum

which he looked was empty.
pluum pl pluuum plm pllum.




"What was it?" he cried, leaping down. "What were they doing with
"Plum plm pl?" pl pllum, plluuum plum. "Plum plum plum pluum plum

Winnsome?"
Plllllum?"




"It was the king," said Nathaniel, struggling to master himself. "The
"Pl plm plm plum," plum Pllllluum, plllluuuum pl pluuum pllluum. "Plm

king put his arms around Winnsome and--she struck him!"
plum plm plm plum plluum Plllllum plm--plm pluuum plm!"




"That was all?"
"Plum plm plm?"




"He kissed her as she fought--and I yelled."
"Pl pluuum plm pl plm pluuum--plm P plluum."




"She struck him!" Neil cried. "God bless little Winnsome, Nat! and--God
"Plm plluum plm!" Plum pllum. "Plm pllum plllum Pllluuum, Plm! plm--Plm

bless her!"
pluum plm!"




Neil's breath came fast as he caught the other's hand.
Plum'p plluum plum plum pl pl plluum plm pllum'p plum.




"I'd give my life if I could help you--and Marion!"
"P'p plum pl plum pl P pluum plum plm--plm Pluuum!"




"We'll give them together," said Nathaniel coolly, turning down the
"Pl'pl plum plum pllluuum," plum Plluuuuum plluum, plluuum plum plm

corridor. "Here's our chance. They'll come through that door to relock
plllluum. "Plum'p plm plllum. Plum'pl plum pllllum plum plum pl plllum

us in our cell. Shall we die fighting?"
pl pl plm plum. Pluum pl plm plllluum?"




He was groping about in the mud of the floor for some object.
Pl plm plluuum pllum pl plm plm pl plm pllum plm plum plllum.




"If we had a couple of stones--"
"Pl pl plm p pluuum pl plllum--"




"It would be madness--worse than madness!" interposed Neil, steadying
"Pl pluum pl pllluum--pllum plum plluuum!" pllluuuuum Plum, pllllllum

himself. "There will be a dozen rifles at that door when they open it.
pllllum. "Pllum plum pl p pllum plllum pl plum plum plum plum plum pl.

We must return to the cell. It is worth dying a harder death to hear
Pl plum plluum pl plm plum. Pl pl pllum pllum p plllum pluum pl plum

from Marion and Winnsome. And we will hear from them before night!"
plum Pluuum plm Plluuuum. Plm pl plum plum plum plum plllum pllum!"




They retreated into the dungeon. A few minutes later the door opened
Plum pllllluum plum plm pllllum. P plm pllllum pluum plm plum pluuum

cautiously at the head of the corridor. A light blazed through the
pllluuuuum pl plm plum pl plm plllluum. P pluum plllum pllllum plm

blackness and after an interval of silence the jailer made his
pllluuuum plm pluum pl plluuuum pl plluuum plm pluuum plum plm

appearance in front of the cell, a pistol in his hand.
pluuuuuuum pl pllum pl plm plum, p plllum pl plm plum.




"Don't be afraid, Jeekum," said Neil reassuringly. "You forgot the door
"Plm'p pl pluuum, Pluuum," plum Plum plllllluuuum. "Plm pluuum plm plum

and we've been having a little fun with the jury. That's all!"
plm pl'pl plum pluuum p plluum plm plum plm plum. Plum'p plm!"




The nervous whiteness left Jeekum's face at this cheerful report and he
Plm pllluum plluuuuum plum Plluum'p plum pl plum plluuuum plllum plm pl

was about to close the door when Nathaniel exhibited a handful of gold
plm pllum pl pllum plm plum plum Pllllllum pllllllum p plluuum pl plum

pieces in the candle-light and frantically beckoned the man to come in.
plllum pl plm pluuum-pllum plm pllluuuuuum plluuuum plm plm pl plum pl.

The jailer's eyes glittered understandingly and with a backward glance
Plm pluuum'p plum plllluuum pllllluuuuuuuum plm plum p pluuuuum plllum

down the lighted corridor he thrust his head and shoulders inside.
plum plm pluuuum plllluum pl plllum plm plum plm pluuuuuum plllum.




"Five hundred dollars for that note!" he whispered. "Five hundred beside
"Plum pllluum plluuum plm plum plum!" pl pllllluum. "Plum pllluum plllum

the four you've got!"
plm plum plm'pl plm!"




"Jeekum's a fool!" said Neil, as the door closed on them. "I feel sorry
"Plluum'p p plum!" plum Plum, pl plm plum plluum pl plum. "P plum pllum

for him."
plm plm."




"Why?"
"Plm?"




"Because he is accepting the money. Don't you suppose that you have been
"Pluuuum pl pl plluuuuum plm pllum. Plm'p plm pllllum plum plm plum plum

searched? Of course you have--probably before I came, while you were
plllluum? Pl pluuum plm plum--pllluuum plluum P plum, pllum plm plum

half dead on the floor. Somebody knows that you have the gold."
plum plum pl plm pllum. Plllluum pluum plum plm plum plm plum."




"Why hasn't it been taken?"
"Plm plum'p pl plum pluum?"




For a full minute Neil made no answer. And his answer, when it did come,
Plm p plum plluum Plum plum pl pluuum. Plm plm plluum, plum pl plm plum,

first of all was a laugh.
pluum pl plm plm p pluum.




"By George, that's good!" he cried exultingly. "Of course you were
"Pl Pluuum, plum'p plum!" pl pluum pluuuuuuum. "Pl plluum plm plum

searched--and by Jeekum! He knows, but he hasn't made a report of it to
pluuuuum--plm pl Plllum! Pl pluum, plm pl plum'p plum p pluuum pl pl pl

Strang because he believes that in some way he will get hold of the
Plllum plluuum pl plllllum plum pl plum plm pl plum plm plum pl plm

money. He is taking a big risk--but he's winning! I wonder what his
pllum. Pl pl plluum p plm plum--plm pl'p plluuum! P plllum plum plm

first scheme was?"
pllum pluuum plm?"




"Thought I'd bury it, perhaps," vouchsafed Nathaniel, throwing himself
"Pllllum P'p plum pl, plluuum," plllllluum Pluuuuuum, plllluum pllllum

upon the straw. "There's room for two here, Neil."
plum plm pllum. "Pllum'p plum plm plm plum, Plum."




A long silence fell between them. The action during the last few minutes
P plum plluuum plum pllllum plum. Plm plluum pluuum plm plum plm plluuum

had been too great an effort for Nathaniel and his wound troubled him
plm plum plm pluum pl plllum plm Plllluuum plm plm pluum plluuuum plm

again. As the pain and his terrible thoughts of Marion's fate returned
pllum. Pl plm plum plm plm pllluuum pluuuuum pl Pluuum'p plum pluuuuum

to him he regretted that they had not ended it all in one last fight at
pl plm pl plluuuuum plum plum plm plm pluum pl plm pl plm plum pllum pl

the door. There, at least, they might have died like men instead of
plm plum. Pluum, pl pluum, plum pllum plum plum plum plm pluuuum pl

waiting to be shot down like dogs, their hands bound behind them, their
pluuuum pl pl plum plum plum plum, pluum pllum pluum pluuum plum, pllum

breasts naked to the Mormon rifles. He did not fear death. In more than
pluuuum pllum pl plm Plluum plluum. Pl plm plm plum pllum. Pl plum plum

one game he had played against its hand, more often for love of the
plm plum pl plm plluum pllluum plm plum, plum pllum plm plum pl plm

sport than not, but there was a horror in being penned up and tortured
pluum plum plm, plm pllum plm p plluum pl pllum plllum pl plm pluuuuum

by it. He had come to look upon it as a fair enemy, filled of course
pl pl. Pl plm plum pl plum plum pl pl p plum pluum, plluum pl plluum

with subterfuge and treachery, which were the laws of the game; but he
plum pluuuuuuum plm plllluuum, pllum plum plm plum pl plm plum; plm pl

had never dreamed of it as anything but merciful in its quickness. It
plm pllum pluuuum pl pl pl plluuuum plm plllllum pl plm pllllluum. Pl

was as if his adversary had broken an inviolable pact with him and he
plm pl pl plm pllllluum plm plllum pl plllluuuum plum plum plm plm pl

sweated and tossed on his bed of straw while Neil sat cool and silent on
pllllum plm plllum pl plm plm pl pluum pllum Plum plm plum plm pluuum pl

the bench against the dungeon wall. Sheer exhaustion brought him relief,
plm pllum pllluum plm pllluum plum. Pllum pluuuuuuum pllllum plm pluuum,

and after a time he fell asleep.
plm pllum p plum pl plum plluum.




He was awakened by Neil. The white face of Marion's brother was over him
Pl plm plllllum pl Plum. Plm pllum plum pl Plllum'p plluuum plm plum plm

when he opened his eyes and he was shaking him roughly by the shoulder.
plum pl plllum plm plum plm pl plm pluuuum plm pllluum pl plm pllluuum.




"Wake up, Nat!" he cried. "For Heaven's sake--wake up!"
"Plum pl, Plm!" pl pllum. "Plm Pluuum'p plum--plum pl!"




He drew back as Nathaniel sleepily roused himself.
Pl plum plum pl Plluuuuum pluuuuum pluuum pllluum.




"I couldn't help it, Nat," he apologized, laughing nervously. "You've
"P plllum'p plum pl, Plm," pl plluuuuuum, plllluum pluuuuuum. "Plm'pl

lain there like a dead man for hours. My head is splitting with this
plum pluum plum p plum plm plm pluum. Pl plum pl pluuuuuum plum plum

damned silence. Come--smoke up! I got some tobacco from our jailer and
plllum plluuum. Plum--pluum pl! P plm plum pluuuum plum plm plluum plm

he loaned me his pipe."
pl pluuum pl plm plum."




Nathaniel jumped to his feet. A fresh candle was burning on the table
Pluuuuuum plllum pl plm plum. P pllum plllum plm pllllum pl plm pllum

and in its light he saw that a startling change had come into Neil's
plm pl plm pluum pl plm plum p pluuuuuum plllum plm plum plum Plum'p

face during the hours he had slept. It looked to him thinner and whiter,
plum plluum plm pllum pl plm pluum. Pl pluuum pl plm pluuuum plm pluuum,

its lines had deepened, and the young man's eyes were filled with gloomy
plm pllum plm plllllum, plm plm pllum plm'p plum plum pluuum plum plluum

dejection.
pllluuuum.




"Why didn't you awaken me sooner?" he exclaimed. "I deserve a good
"Plm plum'p plm plllum pl pluuum?" pl plluuuuum. "P pllllum p plum

drubbing for leaving you alone here!" He saw fresh food on the table.
plluuuum plm pluuuum plm pllum plum!" Pl plm pllum plum pl plm pllum.

"It's late--" he began.
"Pl'p plum--" pl pluum.




"That is our dinner and supper," interrupted Neil. He held his watch
"Plum pl plm plllum plm pluuum," pllluuuuuum Plum. Pl plum plm pllum

close to the candle. "Half past eight!"
pllum pl plm plluum. "Plum plum pluum!"




"And no word--from--"
"Plm pl plum--plum--"




"No."
"Pl."




The two men looked deeply into each other's eyes.
Plm plm plm plllum plllum plum plum pluum'p plum.




"Jeekum delivered my note to her at noon when he was relieved," said
"Pluuum plluuuuum pl plum pl plm pl plum plum pl plm plluuuum," plum

Neil. "He did not carry it personally but swears that he saw her receive
Plum. "Pl plm plm pllum pl plllluuuum plm plllum plum pl plm plm pluuuum

it. He sent her word that he would call at a certain place for a reply
pl. Pl plum plm plum plum pl pluum plum pl p pllllum pluum plm p pluum

when he was relieved again at five. There was no reply for him--not a
plum pl plm plllluum pluum pl plum. Pluum plm pl pllum plm plm--plm p

word from Winnsome."
plum plum Pluuuuum."




Their silence was painful. It was Nathaniel who spoke first,
Pluum pllluum plm pluuuum. Pl plm Plllluuum plm pllum pluum,

hesitatingly, as though afraid to say what was passing in his mind.
pluuuuuuuuum, pl plluum pluuum pl plm plum plm pluuuum pl plm plum.




"I killed Winnsome's father, Neil," he said, "and Winnsome has demanded
"P pluuum Pllluuum'p plllum, Plum," pl plum, "plm Plluuuum plm plllluum

my death. I know that I am condemned to die. But you--" His eyes flashed
pl pllum. P plum plum P pl pllllllum pl plm. Plm plm--" Plm plum pllllum

sudden fire. "How do you know that my fate is to be yours? I begin to
plllum plum. "Plm pl plm plum plum pl plum pl pl pl pluum? P pluum pl

see the truth. Winnsome has not answered your note because she knows
plm plm pluum. Pllluuum plm plm pllluuum plum plum pluuuum plm pluum

that you are to live and that she will see you soon. Between Winnsome
plum plm plm pl plum plm plum plm plum plm plm plum. Pluuuum Plllluum

and--Marion you will be saved!"
plm--Pluuum plm plum pl pllum!"




Neil had taken a piece of meat and was eating it as though he had not
Plum plm pllum p pllum pl plum plm plm plllum pl pl pluuum pl plm plm

heard his companion's words.
pllum plm plllluuum'p pluum.




"Help yourself, Nat. It's our last opportunity."
"Plum plluuuum, Plm. Pl'p plm plum plluuuuuuum."




"You don't believe--"
"Plm plm'p pllllum--"




"No. Lord, man, do you suppose that Strang is going to let me live to
"Pl. Plum, plm, pl plm pllllum plum Plllum pl pluum pl plm pl plum pl

kill him?"
plum plm?"




Somebody was fumbling with the chain at the dungeon door.
Plllllum plm plllllum plum plm pluum pl plm pllluum plum.




The two men stared as it opened slowly and Jeekum appeared. The jailer
Plm plm plm plluum pl pl pluuum plllum plm Plluum pllluuum. Plm plluum

was highly excited.
plm pluuum plluuum.




"I've got word--but no note!" he whispered hoarsely. "Quick! Is it
"P'pl plm plum--plm pl plum!" pl plllluuum plllluum. "Pllum! Pl pl

worth--"
pluum--"




"Yes! Yes!"
"Plm! Plm!"




Nathaniel dug the gold pieces out of his pockets and dropped them into
Pluuuuuum plm plm plum plluum plm pl plm pllllum plm plluuum plum plum

the jailer's outstretched hand.
plm pluuum'p pluuuuuuuuum plum.




"I've had my boy watching Winnsome Croche's house," continued the
"P'pl plm pl plm pllluuum Pluuuuum Plllum'p pllum," pluuuuuum plm

sheriff, white with the knowledge of the risk he was taking. "An hour
pllllum, pllum plum plm pllllluum pl plm plum pl plm plluum. "Pl plum

ago Winnsome came out of the house and went into the woods. My boy
plm Plllluum plum plm pl plm pluum plm plum plum plm pluum. Pl plm

followed. She ran to the lake, got into a skiff, and rowed straight out
plllllum. Plm plm pl plm plum, plm plum p pllum, plm pllum plllllum plm

to sea. She is following your instructions!"
pl plm. Plm pl plllluuum plum plluuuuuuuum!"




In his excitement he betrayed himself. He had read the note.
Pl plm plllllllum pl plllllum pllluum. Pl plm plum plm plum.




There came a sound up the corridor, the opening of a door, the echo of
Pluum plum p pluum pl plm pluuuuum, plm pluuuum pl p plum, plm plum pl

voices, and Jeekum leaped back. Nathaniel's foot held the cell door
plluum, plm Plluum plllum plum. Pllllllum'p plum plum plm plum plum

from closing.
plum pllluum.




"Where is Marion?" he cried softly, his heart standing still with dread.
"Pllum pl Plllum?" pl pluum plllum, plm pluum plllllum pllum plum pllum.

"Great God--what about Marion?"
"Pllum Plm--plum pluum Plluum?"




For an instant the sheriff's ghastly face was pressed against the
Plm pl plluuum plm plluuum'p plluuum plum plm pluuuum pllllum plm

opening.
plluuum.




"Marion has not been seen since morning. The king's officers are
"Plllum plm plm plum plum pllum pluuuum. Plm plum'p pllluuum plm

searching for her."
pllluuuum plm plm."




The door slammed, the chains clanked loudly, and above the sound of
Plm plum pluuuum, plm plluum plluuum plluum, plm pllum plm pllum pl

Jeekum's departure Neil's voice rose in a muffled cry of joy.
Plluum'p pllluuuum Plum'p pluum plum pl p pluuuum plm pl plm.




"They are gone! They are leaving the island!"
"Plum plm plum! Plum plm pllllum plm pluuum!"




Nathaniel stood like one turned into stone. His heart grew cold within
Pllllluum pllum plum plm plllum plum pllum. Plm pllum plum plum pluuum

him. When he spoke his words were passionless echoes of what had been.
plm. Plum pl pluum plm pluum plum pllllllluum plllum pl plum plm plum.




"You are sure that Marion would kill herself as soon as she became the
"Plm plm plum plum Pluuum pluum plum plluuum pl plum pl plm plluum plm

wife of Strang?" he asked.
plum pl Plllum?" pl pllum.




"Yes--before his vile hands touched more than the dress she wore!"
"Plm--pluuum plm plum pllum plluuum plum plum plm pllum plm plum!"

shouted Neil.
plluuum Plum.




"Then Marion is dead," replied Nathaniel, as coldly as though he were
"Plum Plluum pl plum," plluuum Pllllluum, pl plluum pl plluum pl plum

talking to the walls about him. "For last night Marion was forced into
plluuum pl plm pluum pllum plm. "Plm plum pllum Plllum plm plluum plum

the harem of the king."
plm pllum pl plm plum."




As he revealed the secret whose torture he meant to keep imprisoned in
Pl pl pllluuum plm plluum pllum pllluum pl pluum pl plum plllllllum pl

his own breast he dropped upon the pallet of straw and buried his face
plm plm plluum pl pllllum plum plm pluuum pl pllum plm plllum plm plum

between his arms, cursing himself that he had weakened in these last
plluuum plm plum, plluuum pllluum plum pl plm plluuuum pl pllum plum

hours of their comradeship.
pllum pl pluum pluuuuuuuum.




He dared not look to see the effect of his words on Neil. His companion
Pl pllum plm plum pl plm plm plluum pl plm pluum pl Plum. Plm plluuuuum

uttered no sound. Instead there was a silence that was terrifying.
plluuum pl pluum. Pllllum pluum plm p pluuuum plum plm pluuuuuuum.




At the end of it Neil spoke in a voice so strangely calm that Nathaniel
Pl plm plm pl pl Plum pllum pl p pllum pl pllllllum plum plum Pllllluum

sat up and stared at him through the gloom.
plm pl plm pluuum pl plm pllllum plm pllum.




"I believe they are coming after us, Nat. Listen!"
"P plluuum plum plm plluum pluum pl, Plm. Pluuum!"




The tread of many feet came to them faintly from beyond the corridor
Plm pllum pl plum plum plum pl plum pllllum plum pluuum plm pluuuuum

wall.
plum.




Nathaniel had risen. They drew close together, and their hands clasped.
Plluuuuum plm pllum. Plum plum pllum pllluuum, plm pluum pllum pllluum.




"Whatever it may be," whispered Neil, "may God have mercy on our souls!"
"Plllllum pl plm pl," pluuuuuum Plum, "plm Plm plum pllum pl plm pluum!"




"Amen!" breathed Captain Plum.
"Plum!" plllluum Pllluum Plum.













CHAPTER XI
PLLUUUM PL




"THE STRAIGHT DEATH"
"PLM PLLLLLUM PLUUM"







Hands were fumbling with the chain at the dungeon door.
Pllum plum plluuuum plum plm pluum pl plm pllllum plum.




It opened and Jeekum's ashen face shone in the candle-light. For a
Pl plllum plm Plllum'p pluum plum pllum pl plm plllum-pluum. Plm p

moment his frightened eyes rested on the two men still standing in their
plluum plm pllluuuuum plum plllum pl plm plm plm pluum plllllum pl pluum

last embrace of friendship. A word of betrayal from them and he knew
plum pllluum pl plluuuuuum. P plum pl plluuuum plum plum plm pl plum

that his own doom was sealed.
plum plm plm plum plm plluum.




He came in, followed by four men. One of them was MacDougall, the king's
Pl plum pl, pluuuuum pl plum plm. Plm pl plum plm PluUuuuuum, plm plum'p

whipper. In the corridor were other faces, like ghostly shadows in the
plluuum. Pl plm plluuuum plum pluum pluum, plum pllllum pluuuum pl plm

darkness. Only MacDougall's face was uncovered. The others were hidden
pluuuuum. Plum PllLllllum'p plum plm pllluuuum. Plm plllum plum pluuum

behind white masks. The men uttered no sound but ranged themselves like
plluum pllum pllum. Plm plm pllllum pl pllum plm pluuum plllluuuum plum

specters in front of the door, their cocked rifles swung into the crooks
pluuuuum pl pluum pl plm plum, pllum plllum pluuum pluum plum plm plllum

of their arms. There was a triumphant leer on MacDougall's lips as he
pl pluum plum. Pluum plm p pllllluuum plum pl PllUuuuuum'p plum pl pl

and the jailer approached. As the whipper bound Neil's hands behind his
plm plm plluum plllluuuum. Pl plm plluuum pllum Plum'p pllum plllum plm

back he hissed in his ear.
plum pl plllum pl plm plm.




"This will be a better job than the whipping, damn you!"
"Plum plum pl p pluuum plm plum plm plluuuum, plum plm!"




Neil laughed.
Plum plluuum.




"Hear that, Nat?" he asked, loud enough for all in the cell to hear.
"Plum plum, Plm?" pl pllum, plum pluuum plm plm pl plm plum pl plum.

"MacDougall says this will be a better job than the whipping. He
"PllLluuuum plum plum plum pl p plllum plm plum plm plluuuum. Pl

remembers how I thrashed him once when he said something to Marion one
plllluuum plm P plllluum plm plum plum pl plum pllluuuum pl Plllum plm

day."
plm."




Neil was as cool as though acting his part in a play. His face was
Plum plm pl plum pl plllum plllum plm plum pl p plum. Plm plum plm

flushed, his eyes gleamed fearlessly defiant. And Nathaniel, looking
pllllum, plm plum pluuuum pluuuuuuum plluuum. Plm Pllllluum, pluuuum

upon the courage of this man, from under whose feet had been swept all
plum plm plluuum pl plum plm, plum pllum pluum plum plm plum pllum plm

hope of life, felt a twinge of shame at his own nervousness. MacDougall
plum pl plum, plum p pluuum pl pluum pl plm plm plluuuuuuum. PllLllllum

grew black with passion at the taunting reminder of his humiliation and
plum pluum plum pllluum pl plm pllluuum pllluuum pl plm pluuuuuuuum plm

tightened the thongs about Neil's wrists until they cut into the flesh.
pllllluum plm pluuum pluum Plum'p plluum pllum plum plm plum plm pluum.




"That's enough, you coward!" exclaimed
"Plum'p plllum, plm plluum!" plllluuum




Nathaniel, as he saw the blood start. "Here--take this!"
Pllllllum, pl pl plm plm pllum pluum. "Plum--plum plum!"




Like lightning he struck out and his fist fell with crushing force
Plum pllllllum pl pluuum plm plm plm plum plum plum plllllum pluum

against the side of the man's head. MacDougall toppled back with a
pllluum plm plum pl plm plm'p plum. PllLluuuum plluuum plum plum p

hollow groan, blood spurting from his mouth and nose. Nathaniel turned
plluum pllum, pllum plluuuum plum plm pllum plm plum. Pluuuuuum plllum

coolly to the four rifles leveled at his breast.
plluum pl plm plum pluuum pllluum pl plm pluuum.




"A pretty puppet to do the king's commands!" he cried. "If there's a man
"P pluuum plluum pl pl plm plum'p plllluum!" pl pluum. "Pl pluum'p p plm

among you let him finish the work!"
pllum plm plm plm plluum plm plum!"




Jeekum had fallen upon his knees beside the whipper.
Pluuum plm plluum plum plm pluum plllum plm plluuum.




"Great God!" he shrieked. "You've killed, him! You've stove in the side
"Pllum Plm!" pl pllluuum. "Plm'pl pluuum, plm! Plm'pl pllum pl plm plum

of his head!"
pl plm plum!"




There was a sudden commotion in the corridor. A terrible voice boomed
Pluum plm p plllum pllllluum pl plm plllluum. P plllllum pluum pluuum

forth in a roar.
pluum pl p plum.




"Let me in!"
"Plm pl pl!"




Strang stood in the door. He gave a single glance at the man gasping and
Plllum pluum pl plm plum. Pl plum p plluum plllum pl plm plm plluuum plm

bleeding in the mud. Then he looked at Nathaniel. The eyes of the two
pluuuuum pl plm plm. Plum pl pluuum pl Plllluuum. Plm plum pl plm plm

men met unflinching. There was no hatred now in the prophet's face.
plm plm pllluuuuuum. Pllum plm pl pluuum plm pl plm pluuuum'p plum.




"Captain Plum, I would give a tenth of my kingdom for a brother like
"Pllluum Plum, P pllum plum p pluum pl pl pllluum plm p plluuum plum

you!" he said calmly. "Here--I will finish the work." He went boldly to
plm!" pl plum pluuum. "Plum--P plum plluum plm plum." Pl plum plluum pl

the task, and as he tied Nathaniel's arms behind him he added, "The
plm plum, plm pl pl plum Pllllllum'p plum pluuum plm pl pllum, "Plm

vicissitudes of war, Captain Plum. You are a man--and can appreciate
plllluuuuuum pl plm, Pllluum Plum. Plm plm p plm--plm plm pluuuuuuum

what they sometimes mean!"
plum plum pluuuuuum plum!"




A few minutes later, gagged and bound, the prisoners fell behind two of
P plm pllluum pllum, plllum plm pluum, plm plluuuuum plum plllum plm pl

the armed guards and at a command from the king, given in a low tone to
plm pluum plllum plm pl p pllllum plum plm plum, pluum pl p plm plum pl

Jeekum, marched through the corridor and up the short flight of steps
Plllum, pluuuum plluuum plm plllllum plm pl plm pllum pluuum pl pllum

that led out of the jail. To Nathaniel's astonishment there was no light
plum plm plm pl plm plum. Pl Pllluuuum'p pluuuuuuuuum pllum plm pl pluum

to guide them. Candles and lights had been extinguished. What words he
pl pllum plum. Pluuuum plm pluuum plm plum plllllllllum. Plum pllum pl

heard were spoken in whispers. In the deep shadow of the prison wall a
pllum plum pluuum pl pluuuuum. Pl plm plum pluuum pl plm plllum plum p

third guard joined the two ahead and like automatons they strode through
pllum pluum plllum plm plm pluum plm plum plllluuuum plum plluum pllllum

the gloom with slow, measured step, their rifles held with soldierly
plm pllum plum plum, plllluum plum, pllum plllum plum plum pluuuuuum

precision. Nathaniel glanced over his shoulder and saw three other white
pllllluum. Pllllllum plluuum plum plm plllllum plm plm pllum pluum pluum

masked faces a dozen feet away. The king had remained behind.
plluum pluum p pllum plum plum. Plm plum plm pluuuuum plllum.




He shuddered and looked at Neil. His companion's appearance was almost
Pl plllluuum plm plluum pl Plum. Plm pllluuuum'p plluuuuuum plm plluum

startling. He seemed half a head taller than himself, yet he knew that
pllluuuum. Pl plluum plum p plum plluum plum plluuum, plm pl plum plum

he was shorter by an inch or two; his shoulders were thrown back, his
pl plm pllluum pl pl plum pl plm; plm pluuuuuum plum plllum plum, plm

chin held high, he kept step with the guards ahead. He was marching to
plum plum plum, pl plum plum plum plm plluum pllum. Pl plm pllluuum pl

his death as coolly as though on parade.
plm pllum pl plllum pl plllum pl pluuum.




Nathaniel's heart beat excitedly as they came to where the scrub of the
Plluuuuum'p pluum plum pllllluum pl plum plum pl pllum plm pllum pl plm

forest met the plain. They were taking the path that led to Marion's!
plluum plm plm pluum. Plum plum plluum plm plum plum plm pl Plluum'p!

Again he looked at Neil. There was no change in the fearless attitude of
Pllum pl pluuum pl Plum. Pllum plm pl plluum pl plm plllluum plluuuum pl

Marion's brother, no lowering of his head, no faltering in his step.
Plluum'p pluuuum, pl pluuuuum pl plm plum, pl pllluuuum pl plm plum.

They passed the graves and entered the opening in the forest where lay
Plum plllum plm plluum plm plluuum plm pllllum pl plm plllum pllum plm

Marion's home, and as once more the sweet odor of lilac came to him,
Plllum'p plum, plm pl plum plum plm pluum plum pl pllum plum pl plm,

awakening within his soul all those things that he had tried to stifle
pluuuuuum plllum plm plum plm pluum pluuum plum pl plm pluum pl plluum

that he might meet death like a man, he felt himself weakening, until
plum pl pllum plum pllum plum p plm, pl plum pluuuum pluuuuuum, pluum

only the cloth about his mouth restrained the moaning cry that forced
plum plm pllum pllum plm pluum plluuuuuum plm pluuuum plm plum pluuum

itself to his lips. If he had possessed a life to give he would have
plllum pl plm plum. Pl pl plm plllluuum p plum pl plum pl pllum plum

sacrificed it gladly then for a word with the Mormon king, a last prayer
pllluuuuum pl pluuum plum plm p plum plum plm Plllum plum, p plum plllum

that death might be meted to him here, where eternity would come to him
plum pluum pluum pl pluum pl plm plum, pllum plllllum pllum plum pl plm

with his glazing eyes fixed to the end upon the home of his beloved, and
plum plm pllluum plum pllum pl plm plm plum plm plum pl plm pluuuum, plm

where the sweetness of the flower that had become a part of Marion
pluum plm pllluuuum pl plm pluuum plum plm pluuum p plum pl Pluuum

herself might soothe the pain of his final moment on earth.
plluuum pluum pluuum plm plum pl plm pluum plllum pl pllum.




His heart leaped with hope as a sharp voice from the rear commanded a
Plm pluum plluum plum plum pl p pllum pluum plum plm plum pllllluum p

halt. It was Jeekum. He came up out of the darkness from behind the rear
plum. Pl plm Pluuum. Pl plum pl plm pl plm pluuuuum plum plllum plm plum

guard, his face still unmasked, and for a few moments was in whispered
pluum, plm plum pllum plluuuum, plm plm p plm plluuum plm pl plllluuum

consultation with the guards ahead. Had Strang, in the virulence of that
pluuuuuuuuum plum plm pluuum pluum. Plm Plluum, pl plm pllllllum pl plum

hatred which he concealed so well, conceived of this spot to give added
plluum pluum pl pluuuuuum pl plum, pllluuuum pl plum plum pl plum pluum

torment to death? It was the poetry of vengeance! For the first time
pllluum pl pllum? Pl plm plm plluum pl pllllllum! Plm plm pluum plum

Neil turned toward his companion. Each read what the other had guessed.
Plum pluuum plllum plm pllllllum. Plum plum plum plm pllum plm pllluum.

Neil, who was nearest to the whispering four, turned suddenly toward
Plum, plm plm pllllum pl plm plllllllum plum, pluuum pllluuum plllum

them and listened. When he looked at Nathaniel again it was with a slow
plum plm plluuuum. Plum pl plllum pl Pllllluum pllum pl plm plum p plum

negative shake of his head.
plllllum pluum pl plm plum.




Jeekum returned quickly and placed himself between them, seizing each by
Plluum pllluuum plluuum plm pluuum plluuum plluuum plum, pllllum plum pl

an arm, and the forward guards, pivoting to the left, set off at their
pl plm, plm plm pluuuum plllum, plllluum pl plm plum, plm plm pl pluum

steady pace across the clearing. As they entered the denser gloom of the
plllum plum pluuum plm pllluuum. Pl plum pllllum plm plllum pluum pl plm

forest on the farther side Nathaniel felt the jailer's fingers tighten
plluum pl plm plluuum plum Pluuuuuum plum plm pluuum'p pllluum pluuuum

about his arm, then relax--and tighten again. A gentle pressure held him
pllum plm plm, plum pluum--plm plluuum pluum. P plllum plllllum plum plm

back and the guards in front gained half a dozen feet. In a low voice
plum plm plm plllum pl pluum plllum plum p pluum plum. Pl p plm pluum

Jeekum called for those behind to fall a few paces to the rear.
Pluuum plllum plm pluum plllum pl plum p plm pluum pl plm plum.




Then came again the mysterious working of the man's fingers on
Plum plum pluum plm plllluuuum pllluum pl plm plm'p pllluum pl

Nathaniel's arm.
Plluuuuum'p plm.




Was Jeekum signaling to him?
Plm Plluum pllllllum pl plm?




He could see Neil's white face still turned stoically to the front.
Pl pluum plm Plum'p pluum plum pluum plluum pllllluum pl plm pluum.

Evidently nothing had occurred to arouse his suspicions. If the
Plluuuuum pluuuum plm pllluuum pl plllum plm plllllluum. Pl plm

maneuvering of Jeekum's fingers meant anything it was intended for him
pllllluuuum pl Plllum'p plluuum pluum plluuuum pl plm plllllum plm plm

alone. Action had been the manna of his life. The possibility of new
pllum. Pluuum plm plum plm pluum pl plm plum. Plm pllluuuuuum pl plm

adventure, even in the face of death, thrilled him. He waited,
plluuuuum, plum pl plm plum pl pllum, plllluum plm. Pl pluuum,

breathless--and the strange pressure came again, so hard that it hurt
plllluuuum--plm plm pllllum plllllum plum pllum, pl plum plum pl plum

his flesh.
plm pluum.




There was no longer a doubt in his mind. The king's sheriff wanted to
Pluum plm pl pluuum p pllum pl plm plum. Plm plum'p pluuuum plllum pl

speak to him.
pllum pl plm.




And he was afraid of the eyes and ears behind.
Plm pl plm pluuum pl plm plum plm plum plllum.




The fingers were cautioning him to be ready--when the opportunity came.
Plm plluuum plum pllllluuum plm pl pl pluum--plum plm pluuuuuuuum plum.




The path widened and through the thin tree-tops above their heads the
Plm plum pllluum plm pllllum plm plum plum-plum pluum pluum pllum plm

starlight filtered down upon them. The leading guards were twenty feet
plluuuuum pllluuum plum plum plum. Plm pllluum pluuum plum plllum plum

away. How far behind were the others?
plum. Plm plm plluum plum plm plllum?




A moment more and they plunged into deep night again. The figures ahead
P pluuum plum plm plum pllllum plum plum pllum pluum. Plm pllllum pllum

were mere shadows. Again the fingers dug into Nathaniel's arm, and
plum plum pllllum. Pluum plm pllluum plm plum Pllllllum'p plm, plm

pressing close to the sheriff he bent down his head.
plllluum pluum pl plm plluuum pl plum plum plm plum.




A low, quick whisper fell in his ear.
P plm, pllum pllluum plum pl plm plm.




"Don't give up hope! Marion--Winnsome--"
"Plm'p plum pl plum! Pluuum--Plluuuum--"




The sheriff jerked himself erect without finishing. Hurried footsteps
Plm pllllum pluuum plluuum pllum pluuuum pluuuuuum. Pllluum pluuuuuum

had come close to their heels. The rear guards were so near that they
plm plum pllum pl pluum pllum. Plm plum plluum plum pl plum plum plum

could have touched them with their guns. Had some spot of lesser gloom
pllum plum pllllum plum plum pluum plum. Plm plum plum pl plllum pluum

ahead betrayed the prisoner's bowed head and Jeekum's white face turned
pllum plllluum plm pluuuuum'p pllum plum plm Plllum'p pllum plum pluuum

to it? There was a steady pressure on Nathaniel's arm now, a warning,
pl pl? Pllum plm p pluuum pllluuum pl Pllllllum'p plm plm, p pllluum,

frightened pressure, and the hand that made it trembled. Jeekum feared
plllluuuum plllllum, plm plm plum plum plum pl plllllum. Plluum plluum

the worst--but his fear was not greater than the chill of disappointment
plm pllum--plm plm plum plm plm pllluum plum plm pluum pl plllllllllluum

that came to smother the excited beating of Nathaniel's heart. What had
plum plum pl pllllum plm pllluum pllluum pl Pluuuuuum'p pluum. Plum plm

the jailer meant to say? What did he know about Marion and Winnsome, and
plm plluum pllum pl plm? Plum plm pl plum pllum Plllum plm Pllluuum, plm

why had he given birth to new hope in the same breath that he mentioned
plm plm pl pluum pluum pl plm plum pl plm plum plllum plum pl pllllluum

their names?
pluum pllum?




His words carried at least one conviction. Marion was alive despite her
Plm pluum pllluum pl pluum plm pllluuuuum. Plllum plm pllum pllllum plm

brother's somber prophesies. If she had killed herself the sheriff would
pllllum'p plluum pllllluuum. Pl plm plm plluum pllllum plm pllllum pluum

not have coupled her name with Winnsome's in the way he had.
plm plum plluuum plm plum plum Plluuuum'p pl plm plm pl plm.




Nathaniel's nerves were breaking with suspense. He stifled his breath to
Pllllluum'p plluum plum pluuuuum plum plllllum. Pl pluuuum plm pluuum pl

listen, to catch the faintest whisper that might come to him from the
plllum, pl pluum plm plluuuum plluuum plum pllum plum pl plm plum plm

white faced man at his side. Each passing moment of silence added to his
pllum pllum plm pl plm plum. Plum pllluum pluuum pl pllllum pllum pl plm

desperation. He squeezed the sheriff's hand with his arm, but there was
pllluuuuuum. Pl plllllum plm pluuuum'p plum plum plm plm, plm pluum plm

no responding signal; in a patch of thick gloom that almost concealed
pl pllluuuuum pluuum; pl p pluum pl pllum pluum plum plllum plluuuuum

the figures ahead he pressed near to him and lowered his head again--and
plm pllllum pllum pl pllluum plum pl plm plm pllllum plm plum pluum--plm

Jeekum pushed him back fiercely, with a low curse.
Plllum plluum plm plum plllluum, plum p plm pluum.




They emerged from the forest and the clear starlight shone down upon
Plum pllllum plum plm plllum plm plm pluum plllluuum pllum plum plum

them. A little distance off lay the lake in shimmering stillness.
plum. P pluuum plllllum plm plm plm plum pl pllluuuuum plluuuuum.

Nathaniel looked boldly at the sheriff now, and as his glance passed
Pllluuuum plllum plllum pl plm pllluum plm, plm pl plm plluum plllum

beyond him he was amazed at the change that had come over Neil. The
plllum plm pl plm pluuum pl plm pluuum plum plm plum plum Plum. Plm

young man's head was bowed heavily upon his breast, his shoulders were
pllum plm'p plum plm pluum pllluum plum plm plllum, plm pllluuuum plum

hunched forward, and he walked with a listless, uneven step. Was it
pllllum pllllum, plm pl plluum plum p pluuuuum, plluum plum. Plm pl

possible that his magnificent courage had at last given way?
pluuuuum plum plm pllllllluum pluuuum plm pl plum pluum plm?




A hundred steps farther they came to the beach and Nathaniel saw a boat
P pllllum pluum pllllum plum plum pl plm pllum plm Pluuuuuum plm p plum

at the water's edge with a single figure guarding it. Straight to this
pl plm pllum'p plum plum p pluuum pluuum pllluuum pl. Plluuuum pl plum

Jeekum led his prisoners. For the first time he spoke to them aloud.
Plluum plm plm pllllluum. Plm plm pluum plum pl pluum pl plum pllum.




"One in front, the other in back," he said.
"Plm pl pluum, plm pllum pl plum," pl plum.




For an instant Nathaniel found himself close beside Neil and he prodded
Plm pl pluuuum Pllllllum pluum pllluum pllum plllum Plum plm pl pllllum

him sharply with his knee. His companion did not lift his head. He made
plm pllllum plum plm plum. Plm pllllluum plm plm plum plm plum. Pl plum

no sign, gave no last flashing comradeship with his eyes, but climbed
pl plum, plum pl plum pluuuuum pllllllluum plum plm plum, plm pllluum

into the bow of the boat and sat down with his chin still on his chest,
plum plm plm pl plm plum plm plm plum plum plm plum pllum pl plm pluum,

like a man lost in stupor.
plum p plm plum pl plluum.




Nathaniel followed him, scarcely believing his eyes, and sat himself in
Pllllluum pllluuum plm, pluuuuum plluuuuum plm plum, plm plm pllluum pl

the stern, leaning comfortably against the knees of the man who took the
plm pluum, pllllum pllllllllum pllllum plm pluum pl plm plm plm plum plm

tiller. He felt a curious thrill pass through him when he discovered a
pluuum. Pl plum p pluuuum pluuum plum pllluum plm plum pl plllluuuum p

moment later that this man was Jeekum. Two men seized the oars
plllum pllum plum plum plm plm Pluuum. Plm plm plluum plm plum

amidships. A fourth, with his rifle across his knees sat facing Neil.
plluuuuum. P pluuum, plum plm pluum plluum plm pluum plm pluuum Plum.




For the first time Nathaniel found himself wondering what this voyage
Plm plm pllum plum Plluuuuum pluum pllluum pluuuuuum plum plum pluuum

meant. Were they to be rowed far down the shore to some secret fastness
pllum. Plum plum pl pl pllum plm plum plm pllum pl plum plllum plluuuum

where no other ears would hear the sound of the avenging rifles, and
pluum pl pluum plum pluum plum plm pluum pl plm plluuuum plluum, plm

where, a few inches under the forest mold, their bodies would never be
pllum, p plm plllum pllum plm pluuum plum, pllum plllum pllum pluum pl

discovered? Each stroke of the oars added to the remoteness of this
pluuuuuuum? Plum plluum pl plm plum pluum pl plm plllluuuum pl plum

possibility. The boat was heading straight out to sea. Perhaps they were
pllllllllum. Plm plum plm pllluum pluuuuum plm pl plm. Pllllum plum plum

to meet a less terrible death by drowning, an end which, though
pl plum p plum pluuuuum pllum pl plllluum, pl plm pllum, plluum

altogether unpleasant, held something comforting in it for Captain Plum.
plllllluum plllluuuum, plum plllluuum plllllllum pl pl plm Plluuum Plum.

Two hours passed without pause in the steady labor of the men at the
Plm pllum plluum plluuum pllum pl plm plllum pluum pl plm plm pl plm

oars. In those hours not a word was spoken. The two men amidships held
plum. Pl pluum pluum plm p plum plm pluuum. Plm plm plm pllllluum plum

no communication. The guard in the bow moved a little now and then only
pl pllllllllluum. Plm pluum pl plm plm pllum p plluum plm plm plum plum

to relieve his cramped limbs. Neil was absolutely motionless, as though
pl pllluum plm plluuum pllum. Plum plm plllluuuum plluuuuuum, pl plllum

he had ceased to breathe. Jeekum uttered not a whisper.
pl plm plluum pl pllluum. Pluuum pllllum plm p pluuuum.




It was his whisper that Nathaniel waited for, the signaling clutch of
Pl plm plm plluuum plum Pllluuuum plluum plm, plm plllluuum pluuum pl

his fingers, the sound of his breath close to his ears. Again and again
plm pllllum, plm pllum pl plm plllum pllum pl plm plum. Pllum plm pluum

he pressed himself against the sheriff's knees. He knew that he was
pl pllllum pllluum plluuum plm pllluum'p pllum. Pl plum plum pl plm

understood, and yet there came no answer. At last he looked up, and
plluuuuuum, plm plm pluum plum pl pluuum. Pl plum pl plllum pl, plm

Jeekum's face was far above him, staring straight and unseeing into the
Plllum'p plum plm plm pllum plm, pllllum plllluum plm plllllum plum plm

darkness ahead. His last spark of hope went out.
plllllum pllum. Plm plum pluum pl plum plum plm.




After a time a dark rim loomed slowly up out of the sea. It was land,
Pluum p plum p plum plm plluum plluum pl plm pl plm plm. Pl plm plum,

half a mile or so away. Nathaniel sat up with fresh interest, and as
plum p plum pl pl plum. Plluuuuum plm pl plum pluum pllluuum, plm pl

they drew nearer Jeekum rose to his feet and gazed long and steadily in
plum plum plllum Plluum plum pl plm plum plm pluum plum plm plllllum pl

both directions along the coast. When he returned to his seat the boat's
plum pllllluuum pluum plm pllum. Plum pl plllllum pl plm plum plm plum'p

course was changed. A few minutes later the bow grated upon sand. Still
plluum plm plluuum. P plm pluuuum pluum plm plm plllum plum plum. Pllum

voiceless as specters the guards leaped ashore and Neil roused himself
pllluuuum pl plllluum plm plluum plllum plluum plm Plum plllum pllllum

to follow them, climbing over the gunwale like a sick man. Nathaniel was
pl plllum plum, plllluum plum plm pllluum plum p plum plm. Plllluuum plm

close at his heels. With a growing sense of horror he saw two ghostly
pllum pl plm pllum. Plum p plluuum pluum pl plllum pl plm plm pllllum

stakes thrusting themselves out of the beach a dozen paces away. He
plluum plluuuuum plllluuuum plm pl plm pllum p pllum pllum plum. Pl

looked beyond them. As far as he could see there was sand--nothing but
pluuum plllum plum. Pl plm pl pl pllum plm pllum plm plum--plluuum plm

sand, as white as paper, scintillating in a billion flashing
plum, pl pluum pl pluum, plluuuuuuuuum pl p pllllum plluuuum

needle-points in the starlight. Instinctively he guessed what the stakes
plluum-plluum pl plm pluuuuuum. Plllllllluuum pl pluuuum plum plm plluum

were for, and walked toward them with the blood turning cold in his
plum plm, plm plluum pluuum plum plum plm pluum pluuuum plum pl plm

veins. Neil was before him and stopped at the first stake, making no
pluum. Plum plm pluuum plm plm plluuum pl plm pllum pllum, pluuum pl

effort to lift his eyes as Nathaniel strode past him. At the second, a
plllum pl plum plm plum pl Pllllllum pluuum plum plm. Pl plm plluum, p

dozen feet beyond, Nathaniel's two guards halted, and placed him with
pllum plum pluuum, Plllluuum'p plm pluuum pluuum, plm pluuum plm plum

his back to the post. Two minutes later, bound hand and foot to the
plm plum pl plm plum. Plm pluuuum pllum, pllum plum plm plum pl plm

stake, he shifted his head so that he could look at his companion.
pluum, pl pluuuum plm plum pl plum pl pluum plum pl plm plluuuuum.




Neil was similarly fastened, with his face turned partly toward him.
Plum plm pllllluum plluuuum, plum plm plum plllum plllum plluum plm.

There was no change in his attitude. His head hung weakly upon his
Pllum plm pl pluuum pl plm plllluum. Plm plum plum plluum plum plm

chest, as if he had fainted.
pllum, pl pl pl plm plluuum.




What did it mean?
Plum plm pl plum?




Suddenly every nerve in Nathaniel's body leaped into excited action.
Plllluum pllum pluum pl Pllluuuum'p plum plluum plum pllllum plllum.




The guards were entering their boat! The last man was shoving it
Plm pluuum plum pllluuum pluum plum! Plm plum plm plm pllllum pl

off--they were rowing away! His throbbing muscles seemed ready to burst
plm--plum plum plllum plum! Plm pllllluum pllluum pluuum pluum pl pllum

their bonds. The boat became indistinct in the starry gloom--a mere
pllum pllum. Plm plum plllum plllluuuum pl plm pluuum pluum--p plum

shadow--and faded in the distance. The sound of oars became fainter and
plluum--plm pluum pl plm plllllum. Plm pluum pl plum pluuum pllluum plm

fainter. Then, after a little, there was wafted back to him from far out
plluuum. Plum, pluum p plllum, pllum plm pluuum plum pl plm plum plm plm

in the lake a man's voice--the wild snatch of a song. The Mormons were
pl plm plum p plm'p pllum--plm plum plllum pl p plum. Plm Pllllum plum

gone! They were not to be shot! They were not--
plum! Plum plum plm pl pl plum! Plum plum plm--




A voice spoke to him, startling him so that he would have cried out if
P pluum pluum pl plm, pllllluum plm pl plum pl pluum plum pluum plm pl

it had not been for the cloth that gagged him. It was Neil, speaking
pl plm plm plum plm plm pluum plum plluum plm. Pl plm Plum, plllllum

coolly, laughingly.
plllum, pllllluuum.




"How are you, Nat?"
"Plm plm plm, Plm?"




Nathaniel's staring eyes revealed his astonishment. He could see Neil
Plluuuuum'p pluuuum plum plllllum plm plllluuuuuum. Pl pluum plm Plum

laughing at him as though it was an unusually humorous joke in which
plllllum pl plm pl plllum pl plm pl pluuuuuum plluuuum plum pl pluum

they were playing a part.
plum plum plluuum p plum.




"Lord, but this is a funny mess!" he chuckled. "Here am I, able and
"Plum, plm plum pl p pluum plum!" pl pllluuum. "Plum pl P, plum plm

willing to talk--and there you are, as dumb as a mummy, and looking for
pluuuum pl plum--plm pluum plm plm, pl plum pl p pluum, plm pluuuum plm

all the world as if you'd seen a ghost! What's the matter? Aren't you
plm plm pluum pl pl plm'p plum p pllum! Plum'p plm plluum? Plum'p plm

glad we're not going to be shot?"
plum pl'pl plm pluum pl pl plum?"




Nathaniel nodded.
Pllllllum plluum.




The other's voice became suddenly sober.
Plm pllum'p pluum plluum plllllum pllum.




"This is worse than the other, Nat. It's what we call the 'Straight
"Plum pl pllum plum plm pluum, Plm. Pl'p plum pl plum plm 'Plllllum

Death.' Unless something turns up between now and to-morrow morning, or
Pllum.' Plllum pllllluum pllum pl pllluum plm plm pl-plllum plluuum, pl

a little later, we'll be as dead as though they had filled us with
p plllum pluum, pl'pl pl pl plum pl plluum plum plm pluuum pl plum

bullets. Our only hope rests in the fact that I can use my lungs. That's
pllluum. Plm plum plum pluum pl plm plum plum P plm plm pl pllum. Plum'p

why I didn't let them know when my gag became loose. I had the devil's
plm P plum'p plm plum plum plum pl plm pluuum pllum. P plm plm pluum'p

own time keeping it from falling with my chin; pretty near broke my neck
plm plum plluuum pl plum pllluum plum pl plum; plllum plum pllum pl plum

doing it. A little later, when we're sure Jeekum and his men are out of
pluum pl. P plluum pluum, plum pl'pl plum Pluuum plm plm plm plm plm pl

hearing, I'll begin calling for help. Perhaps some fisherman or
pluuuum, P'pl pllum plluuum plm plum. Plluuum plum plllluuum pl

hunter--"
plluum--"




He stopped, and a chill ran up Nathaniel's back as he listened to a
Pl pluuuum, plm p pllum plm pl Plluuuuum'p plum pl pl plllluum pl p

weird howl that came from far behind them. It was a blood-curdling
pllum plum plum plum plum plm plllum plum. Pl plm p pllum-plllluum

sound and his face turned a more ghastly pallor as he gazed inquiringly
pllum plm plm plum plluum p plum pllllum plluum pl pl pllum pllluuuuuum

at Neil. His companion saw the terrible question in his face.
pl Plum. Plm plluuuuum plm plm plllllum pllluuum pl plm plum.




"Wolves," he said. "They're away back in the forest. They won't come
"Pluuum," pl plum. "Plum'pl plum plum pl plm pluuum. Plum plm'p plum

down to us." For a moment he was silent, his eyes turned to the sea.
plum pl pl." Plm p plllum pl plm plllum, plm plum pluuum pl plm plm.

Then he added, "Do you notice anything queer about the way you're bound
Plum pl pluum, "Pl plm plllum plllluum pllum pluum plm plm plm'pl pllum

to that stake, Nat?"
pl plum pllum, Plm?"




There was a thrilling emphasis in Nathaniel's answer. He nodded his head
Pluum plm p pllluuuum plllluum pl Pllllluum'p pluuum. Pl pluuum plm plum

affirmatively, again and again.
pllllllllllum, pluum plm pllum.




"Your hands are tied to the post very loosely, with a slack of say six
"Plum pllum plm plum pl plm plum plum plluuum, plum p pluum pl plm plm

inches," continued Neil with an appalling precision. "There is a rawhide
pluuum," pllllluum Plum plum pl pluuuuuum pllluuuum. "Pllum pl p plluuum

thong about your neck, wet, and so tight that it chafes your skin when
pllum pluum plum plum, plm, plm pl pllum plum pl plluum plum plum plum

you move your head. But the very uncomfortable thing just at this moment
plm plum plum plum. Plm plm plum plllllllluuum pluum plum pl plum plllum

is the way your feet are fastened. Isn't that so? Your legs are drawn
pl plm plm plum plum plm plllllum. Plm'p plum pl? Plum plum plm pluum

back, so that you are half resting on your toes, and I'm pretty sure
plum, pl plum plm plm plum pllluum pl plum plum, plm P'p plluum plum

your knees are aching right now. Eh? Well, it won't be very long before
plum pllum plm plluum pluum plm. Pl? Plum, pl plm'p pl plum plum plluum

your legs will give way under you and the slack about your wrists will
plum plum plum plum plm pllum plm plm plm pluum pluum plum plluum plum

keep you from helping yourself. Do you know what will happen then?"
plum plm plum plluuum plllluum. Pl plm plum plum plum plluum plum?"




He paused and Nathaniel stared at him, partly understanding, yet giving
Pl plluum plm Pllluuuum pluuum pl plm, plllum pllluuuuuuuum, plm plluum

no sign.
pl plum.




"You will hang upon the thong about your neck until you choke to death,"
"Plm plum plum plum plm pllum pluum plum plum pluum plm pllum pl pllum,"

finished Neil. "That's the 'Straight Death.' If the end doesn't come by
plllluum Plum. "Plum'p plm 'Pllluuum Pluum.' Pl plm plm pllum'p plum pl

morning the sun will finish the job. It will dry out the wet rawhide
pluuuum plm plm plum plllum plm plm. Pl plum plm plm plm plm pllluum

until it grips your throat like a hand. Poetically we call it the hand
pluum pl pluum plum plluum plum p plum. Plllluuuum pl plum pl plm plum

of Strang. Pleasant, isn't it?"
pl Pluuum. Pllluuum, plm'p pl?"




The grim definiteness with which he described the manner of their end
Plm plum plllluuuuuum plum pluum pl pluuuuuum plm pluuum pl pllum plm

added to those sensations which had already become acutely discomforting
pllum pl pllum plllllllum pllum plm pllluum plllum pllllum plluuuuuuuuum

to Nathaniel. Had he possessed the use of his voice when the Mormons
pl Pllllluum. Plm pl plluuuuum plm plm pl plm pluum plum plm Pluuuum

were leaving he would have called upon them to return and lengthen the
plum pluuuum pl pluum plum plllum plum plum pl pluuum plm pluuuuum plm

thongs about his ankles by an inch or two. Now, with almost brutal
plluum pluum plm plllum pl pl plum pl plm. Plm, plum plllum pluuum

frankness, Neil had explained to him the meaning of his strange
pluuuuuum, Plum plm plluuuuum pl plm plm pluuuum pl plm pllluum

posture. His knees began to ache. An occasional sharp pain shot up from
pllllum. Plm pllum pllum pl plum. Pl pllllluuum pluum plum plum pl plum

them to his hips, and the thong about his neck, which at first he had
plum pl plm plum, plm plm pluum pllum plm plum, pllum pl pluum pl plm

used as a support for his chin, began to irritate him. At times he found
plum pl p plluuum plm plm plum, pllum pl pllluuum plm. Pl pllum pl pllum

himself resting upon it so heavily that it shortened his breath, and he
pllllum pllluum plum pl pl plluuum plum pl plllluuum plm plllum, plm pl

was compelled to straighten himself, putting his whole weight on his
plm plllluuum pl plllluuuum pluuuum, pluuuum plm pluum plluum pl plm

twisted feet. It seemed an hour before Neil broke the terrible silence
pllluum plum. Pl pluuum pl plum pluuum Plum pllum plm pllluuum pllllum

again. Perhaps it was ten minutes.
pluum. Pllllum pl plm plm plluuum.




"I'm going to begin," he said. "Listen. If you hear an answer nod your
"P'p pluum pl pllum," pl plum. "Plluum. Pl plm plum pl plluum plm plum

head."
plum."




He drew a deep breath, turned his face as far as he could toward the
Pl plum p plum pluuum, plluum plm plum pl plm pl pl pllum pluuum plm

shore, and shouted.
pluum, plm pluuuum.




"Help--help--help!"
"Plum--plum--plum!"




Again and again the thrilling words burst from his throat, and as their
Pluum plm pluum plm pllllllum pluum pllum plum plm pluuum, plm pl pllum

echoes floated back to them from the forest, like a thousand mocking
plllum pllluum plum pl plum plum plm plllum, plum p pluuuuum pluuuum

voices, Nathaniel grew hot with the sweat of horror. If he could only
plluum, Pllllllum plum plm plum plm pllum pl pluuum. Pl pl pllum plum

have added his own voice to those cries, shrieked out the words with
plum pluum plm plm pllum pl pluum pllum, plllllum plm plm pluum plum

Neil--joined even unavailingly in this last fight for life, it would not
Plum--pluuum plum pllllllluuum pl plum plum pluum plm plum, pl pllum plm

have been so bad. But he was helpless. He watched the desperation grow
plum plum pl plm. Plm pl plm plllluum. Pl plluuum plm pllllllllum plum

in his companion's face as there came no response save the taunting
pl plm pluuuuuum'p plum pl pllum plum pl pluuuuum plum plm plllllum

echoes; even in the light of the stars he saw that face darken with its
plllum; plum pl plm pluum pl plm pllum pl plm plum plum plllum plum plm

effort, the eyes fill with a mad light, and the throat strain against
plluum, plm plum plum plum p plm pluum, plm plm plllum pluuum pllluum

its choking thong. Gradually Neil's voice became weaker. When he stopped
plm pluuuum pllum. Pllluuuum Plum'p pluum plluum plluum. Plum pl plluuum

to rest and listen his panting breath came to Nathaniel like the hissing
pl plum plm plluum plm plluuum plluum plum pl Pllllllum plum plm pllluum

of steam. Soon the echoes failed to come back from the forest, and
pl pluum. Plum plm pluuum pluuum pl plum plum plum plm pluuum, plm

Nathaniel fought like a crazed man to free himself, jerking at the
Plluuuuum plllum plum p plluum plm pl plum pluuuum, pllllum pl plm

thongs that held him until his wrists were bleeding and the rawhide
pluuum plum plum plm pllum plm pluuum plum plllluum plm plm pllluum

about his neck choked him.
pluum plm plum plluum plm.




"No use!" he heard Neil say. "Better take it easy for a while, Nat!"
"Pl plm!" pl pluum Plum plm. "Plllum plum pl plum plm p pluum, Plm!"




Marion's brother had turned toward him, his head thrown back against the
Plluum'p pllllum plm plllum plluum plm, plm plum plllum plum pllluum plm

stake, his face lifted to the sky. Nathaniel raised his own head, and
pluum, plm plum plllum pl plm plm. Pllllllum plluum plm plm plum, plm

found that he could breath easier. For a long time his companion did not
pllum plum pl pllum pluuum plllum. Plm p plum plum plm pllluuuum plm plm

break the silence. Mentally he began counting off the seconds. It was
pluum plm pluuuum. Plllllum pl pllum plllluum plm plm pllllum. Pl plm

past midnight--probably one o'clock. Dawn came at half past two, the sun
plum plllluum--plluuuum plm p'pllum. Plum plum pl plum plum plm, plm plm

rose an hour later. Three hours to live! Nathaniel lowered his head, and
plum pl plum pluum. Pllum pluum pl plum! Pluuuuuum pllllum plm plum, plm

the rawhide tightened perceptibly at the movement. Neil was watching
plm plluuum pllluuuum pllllllluum pl plm plllluum. Plum plm plllllum

him. His face shone as white as the starlit sand. His mouth was partly
plm. Plm plum pllum pl pllum pl plm pllluum plum. Plm pluum plm pluuum

open.
plum.




"I'm devilish sorry--for you--Nat--" he said.
"P'p plllluum pllum--plm plm--Plm--" pl plum.




His words came with painful slowness. There was a grating huskiness in
Plm pllum plum plum plluuum pllluuum. Pllum plm p pllluum plluuuuum pl

his voice.
plm pllum.




"This damned rawhide--is pinching--my Adam's apple--"
"Plum plluum pllluum--pl plluuuum--pl Plum'p pllum--"




He smiled. His white teeth gleamed, his eyes laughed, and with a heart
Pl plllum. Plm pluum pllum pllllum, plm plum pluuuum, plm plum p pllum

bursting with grief Nathaniel looked away from him. He had seen courage,
plluuuum plum pluum Pluuuuuum pluuum plum plum plm. Pl plm plum pluuuum,

but never like this, and deep down in his soul he prayed--prayed that
plm pluum plum plum, plm plum plum pl plm plum pl plluum--pluuum plum

death might come to him first, so that he might not have to look upon
pllum pllum plum pl plm pluum, pl plum pl pluum plm plum pl plum plum

the agonies of this other, whose end would be ghastly in its fearless
plm pllluum pl plum pllum, pluum plm pluum pl pluuuum pl plm pllluuum

resignation. His own suffering had become excruciating. Sharp pains
plluuuuuuum. Plm plm pllluuuum plm plllum pllllluuuuum. Pllum pllum

darted like red-hot needles through his limbs, his back tortured him,
plluum plum plm-plm pllllum pllllum plm pluum, plm plum plluuuum plm,

and his head ached as though a knife had cloven the base of his skull.
plm plm plum pllum pl pluuum p pllum plm pluuum plm plum pl plm pllum.

Still--he could breathe. By pressing his head against the post it was
Pluum--pl pluum plluuum. Pl plllllum plm plum pluuuum plm plum pl plm

not difficult for him to fill his lungs with air. But the strength of
plm pllluuuum plm plm pl plum plm pllum plum plm. Plm plm plluuuum pl

his limbs was leaving him. He no longer felt any sensation in his
plm pluum plm plluuum plm. Pl pl pluuum plum plm plluuuuum pl plm

cramped feet. His knees were numb. He measured the paralysis of death
pllluum plum. Plm pluum plum plum. Pl pluuuuum plm pllllllum pl pluum

creeping up his legs inch by inch, driving the sharp pains before it,
pllluuum pl plm plum plum pl plum, pllllum plm pllum pllum plluum pl,

until suddenly his weight tottered under him and he hung heavily upon
pluum pluuuuum plm plluum plluuuum pllum plm plm pl plum pllllum plum

the thong about his throat. For a full half minute he ceased to breathe,
plm pluum pllum plm plluum. Plm p plum plum plllum pl plllum pl plluuum,

and a feeling of ineffable relief swept over him, for during those few
plm p pllluum pl pllluuuum pluuum pllum plum plm, plm pluuum pllum plm

seconds his body was at rest. He found that by a backward contortion he
pluuuum plm plum plm pl plum. Pl pllum plum pl p pllluuum pllluuuuum pl

could bring himself erect again, and that for a few minutes after each
pllum pllum pluuuum pllum pllum, plm plum plm p plm pllluum pluum plum

respite it was not so difficult for him to stand.
pllluum pl plm plm pl pllluuuum plm plm pl pllum.




After a third effort he turned again toward Neil. A groan of horror rose
Pllum p pluum plluum pl plluum pllum plluum Plum. P pluum pl plluum plum

to his imprisoned lips. His companion's face was full upon him, ghastly
pl plm plllllluum plum. Plm pllllluum'p plum plm plum plum plm, pluuuum

white; his eyes were wide and staring, like balls of shimmering glass in
pluum; plm plum plum plum plm pluuuum, plum pluum pl pllluuuuum pluum pl

the starlight, and his throat was straining at the fatal rawhide!
plm plluuuuum, plm plm plluum plm plluuuuum pl plm pluum pluuuum!

Nathaniel heard no sound, saw no stir of life in the inanimate figure.
Pllllllum pllum pl pluum, plm pl plum pl plum pl plm pllluuuum pluuum.




A moaning, wordless cry broke through the cloth that gagged him.
P pllluum, plllluum plm pllum pluuuum plm pllum plum plluum plm.




At the sound of that cry, faint, terrifying, with all the horror that
Pl plm pllum pl plum plm, pllum, plllllllum, plum plm plm plluum plum

might fill a human soul in its inarticulate note, a shudder of life
pllum plum p pllum plum pl plm plllluuuuuum plum, p pllllum pl plum

passed into Neil's body. Weakly he flung himself back, stood poised for
plluum plum Plum'p plum. Plllum pl pllum plluuum plum, pllum plluum plm

an instant against the stake, then fell again upon the deadly thong.
pl plluuum pllluum plm pluum, plum plum pluum plum plm plluum pllum.

Twice--three times he made the effort, and failed. And to Nathaniel,
Pllum--pllum pluum pl plum plm plllum, plm pluuum. Plm pl Pllluuuum,

staring wild eyed and silent now, the spectacle was one that seemed to
plluuum plum plum plm pluuum plm, plm pllluuuum plm plm plum pluuum pl

blast the very soul within him and send his blood in rushing torrents of
pllum plm plum plum plluum plm plm plum plm pllum pl plluuum pllluuum pl

fire to his sickened brain. Neil was dying! A fourth time he struggled
plum pl plm pllluuum pluum. Plum plm pluum! P pluuum plum pl pllluuuum

back. A fifth--and he held his ground. Even in that passing instant
plum. P pluum--plm pl plum plm pluuum. Plum pl plum pllllum plluuum

something like a flash of his buoyant smile flickered in his face and
plluuuuum plum p pluum pl plm plluuum pluum plluuuuum pl plm plum plm

there came to Nathaniel's ears like a throttled whisper--his name.
pluum plum pl Pllllluum'p plum plum p pluuuuuum plluuum--plm plum.




"Nat--"
"Plm--"




And no more.
Plm pl plum.




The head fell forward again. And Nathaniel, turning his face away, saw
Plm plum plum pllllum pluum. Plm Plllluuum, pluuuum plm plum plum, plm

something come up out of the shimmering sea, like a shadow before his
pllluuuum plum pl plm pl plm plllllluum plm, plum p plluum pluuum plm

blistering eyes, and as his own limbs went out from under him and he
plllluuuum plum, plm pl plm plm pllum plum plm plum pllum plm plm pl

felt the strangling death at his throat there came from that shadow a
plum plm plllllluum pluum pl plm plllum pllum plum plum plum pluuum p

cry that seemed to snap his very heartstrings--a piercing cry and (even
plm plum plluum pl plum plm plum plllluuuuuum--p pllluuum plm plm (plum

in his half consciousness he recognized it) a woman's cry! He flung
pl plm plum plllluuuuuuum pl pluuuuuuum pl) p pllum'p plm! Pl pluum

himself back, and for a moment he saw Neil struggling, the last spark of
pllluum plum, plm plm p plllum pl plm Plum pllllluuum, plm plum pluum pl

life in him stirred by that same cry; and then across the white sand two
plum pl plm pllllum pl plum plum plm; plm plum pluuum plm pluum plum plm

figures flew madly toward them and even as the hot film in his eyes grew
pllllum plum pllum pluuum plum plm plum pl plm plm plum pl plm plum plum

thicker he knew that one of them was Marion, and that the other was
pllllum pl plum plum plm pl plum plm Plllum, plm plum plm pllum plm

Winnsome Croche.
Pllluuum Plllum.




His heart seemed to stop beating. He strove to pull himself together,
Plm pluum plllum pl plum plluuum. Pl pluuum pl plum plluuum pluuuuum,

but his head fell forward. Faintly, as on a battlefield, voices came to
plm plm plum plum pllllum. Pluuuum, pl pl p pllllllluum, plllum plum pl

him, and when with a superhuman effort he straightened himself for an
plm, plm plum plum p plluuuuuum pluuum pl pllllluuuuum pluuuum plm pl

instant he saw that Neil was no longer at the stake but was stretched on
pllluum pl plm plum Plum plm pl pluuum pl plm pluum plm plm pllllluum pl

the sand, and of the two figures beside him one suddenly sprang to her
plm plum, plm pl plm plm pllllum plluum plm plm plluuuum plllum pl plm

feet and ran to him. And then Marion's terror-filled face was close to
plum plm plm pl plm. Plm plum Plluum'p pluuum-plluum plum plm pllum pl

his own, and Marion's lips were moaning his name, and Marion's hands
plm plm, plm Pluuum'p plum plum pllllum plm plum, plm Plluum'p pllum

were slashing at the thongs that bound him. When with a great sigh of
plum plllllum pl plm plluum plum pllum plm. Plum plum p pllum plum pl

joy he crumpled down upon the earth he knew that he was slipping off
plm pl pllluuum plum plum plm pluum pl plum plum pl plm pllluuum plm

into oblivion with Marion's arms about his neck, and with her lips
plum plluuuum plum Plllum'p plum pluum plm plum, plm plum plm plum

pressing to his the sweet elixir of her love.
plllluum pl plm plm pllum plluum pl plm plum.




Darkness enshrouded him but a few moments, when a dash of cool water
Pllluuum pllllluuum plm plm p plm pllluum, plum p plum pl plum pllum

brought him back into light. He felt himself lowered upon the sand and
pllluum plm plum plum pllum. Pl plum plluuum pluuuum plum plm plum plm

after a breath or two he twisted himself on his elbow and saw that
pluum p plluum pl plm pl pllluum plluuum pl plm pluum plm plm plum

Neil's white face was held on Winnsome's breast and that Marion was
Plum'p pluum plum plm plum pl Plluuuum'p plluum plm plum Pluuum plm

running up from the shore with more water. For a space she knelt beside
pllluum pl plum plm pluum plum plum pluum. Plm p pllum plm pluum pluuum

her brother, and then she hurried to him. Joy shone in her face. She
plm pluuuum, plm plum plm plluuum pl plm. Plm pluum pl plm plum. Plm

fell upon her knees and drew his head in the hollow of her arm, crooning
plum plum plm pluum plm plum plm plum pl plm plllum pl plm plm, pllluuum

mad senseless words to him, and bathing his face with water, her eyes
plm pllllluum pllum pl plm, plm pluuuum plm plum plum pllum, plm plum

shining down upon him gloriously. Nathaniel reached up and touched her
pllllum plum plum plm pluuuuuuum. Pluuuuuum pluuuum pl plm pllluum plm

face, and she bowed her head until her hair smothered him in sweet
plum, plm plm pluum plm plum pllum plm plum plluuuuum plm pl pllum

gloom, and kissed him. He drew her lips to his own, and then she lowered
pluum, plm plllum plm. Pl plum plm plum pl plm plm, plm plum plm pllllum

him gently and stood up in the starlight, looking first at Neil and next
plm plluum plm pllum pl pl plm pluuuuuum, pllluum pluum pl Plum plm plum

down at him; and then she turned quickly back to the sea.
plum pl plm; plm plum plm plllum pllllum plum pl plm plm.




From down near the shore she called back some word, and with a shrill
Plum plum plum plm pluum plm pluuum plum plum plum, plm plum p plllum

cry Winnsome followed her. Nathaniel struggled to his elbow, to his
plm Plllluum pllluuum plm. Pllllllum pllllluum pl plm pllum, pl plm

knees--staggered to his feet. He saw the boat drifting out into the
pllum--pllllllum pl plm plum. Pl plm plm plum pluuuuum plm plum plm

night, and Winnsome standing alone at the water-edge, her sobbing cries
pllum, plm Plluuuum pluuuuum pluum pl plm pluum-plum, plm plluuum pllum

of entreaty, of terror, following it unanswered. He tottered down toward
pl plluuuum, pl pluuum, pluuuuuum pl plllllluum. Pl plllluum plum plluum

her, gaining new strength at each step, but when he reached her the boat
plm, pluuuum plm plluuuum pl plum plum, plm plum pl pllluum plm plm plum

was no longer to be seen and Winnsome's face was whiter than the sands
plm pl plluum pl pl plum plm Pllluuum'p plum plm pluuum plum plm pluum

under her feet.
pluum plm plum.




"She is gone--gone--" she moaned, stretching out her arms to him. "She
"Plm pl plum--plum--" plm plllum, pllllluuum plm plm plum pl plm. "Plm

is going--back to Strang!"
pl pllum--plum pl Plluum!"




And then, from far out in the white glory of the night, there came back
Plm plum, plum plm plm pl plm pllum pluum pl plm pluum, pllum plum plum

to him the voice of the girl he loved.
pl plm plm pluum pl plm plum pl pluum.




"Good-by--Good-by--"
"Plum-pl--Plum-pl--"













CHAPTER XII
PLLUUUM PLM




MARION FREED FROM BONDAGE
PLLUUM PLUUM PLUM PLUUUUM







"Gone!" moaned Winnsome again. "She has gone--back--to--Strang!"
"Plum!" plllum Plluuuum pllum. "Plm plm plum--plum--pl--Plluum!"




Neil was crawling to them like a wounded animal across the sand.
Plum plm plllluum pl plum plum p pllluum pluuum pluuum plm plum.




She started toward him but Nathaniel stopped her.
Plm plluuum plluum plm plm Pllllllum pllluum plm.




"She is the king's--wife--"
"Plm pl plm plum'p--plum--"




His throat was swollen so that he could hardly speak.
Plm plluum plm pllluum pl plum pl pluum plllum pluum.




"No. They are to be married to-night. Oh, I thought she was going to
"Pl. Plum plm pl pl plluuum pl-pllum. Pl, P pllllum plm plm pluum pl

stay!" She tore herself away from him to go to Neil, who had fallen upon
plum!" Plm plum pllluum plum plum plm pl pl pl Plum, plm plm plllum plum

his face exhausted, a dozen yards away.
plm plum pllllluum, p pllum pluum plum.




In the wet sand, where the incoming waves lapped his hands and feet,
Pl plm plm plum, pllum plm pllluuum pllum pluuum plm pllum plm plum,

Nathaniel sank down, his eyes staring out into the shimmering distance
Pllluuuum plum plum, plm plum plluuum plm plum plm plllluuuum plllluum

where Marion had gone. His brain was in a daze, and he wondered if he
pllum Plllum plm plum. Plm pluum plm pl p plum, plm pl plluuuum pl pl

had been stricken by some strange madness--if this all was but some
plm plum plllluum pl plum pllluum plluuum--pl plum plm plm plm plum

passing phantasm that would soon leave him again to his misery and his
pllluum plllluum plum pllum plum pluum plm pllum pl plm pluuum plm plm

despair. But the dash of the cold water against him cleared away his
pllluum. Plm plm plum pl plm plum pluum pllluum plm pluuuum plum plm

doubt. Marion had come to him. She had saved him from death. And now she
pllum. Pluuum plm plum pl plm. Plm plm pluum plm plum pluum. Plm plm plm

was gone.
plm plum.




And she was not the king's wife!
Plm plm plm plm plm plum'p plum!




He staggered to his feet again and plunged into the lake until the water
Pl plllluuum pl plm plum pllum plm pllllum plum plm plum pluum plm pllum

reached to his waist, calling her name, entreating her in weak, half
pluuuum pl plm pllum, pluuuum plm plum, plllluuuum plm pl plum, plum

choked cries to come back to him. The water soaked through to his hot,
plllum pllum pl plum plum pl plm. Plm pluum plllum pllluum pl plm plm,

numb body, restoring his reason and strength, and he buried his face in
plum plum, pllllluum plm plllum plm plluuuum, plm pl plllum plm plum pl

it and drank like one who had been near to dying of thirst. Then he
pl plm pluum plum plm plm plm plum plum pl pllum pl pluuum. Plum pl

returned to Neil. Winnsome was holding his head in her arms.
pllluuum pl Plum. Plllluum plm plluuum plm plum pl plm plum.




He dropped upon his knees beside them and saw that life was returning
Pl plluuum plum plm pllum pluuum plum plm plm plum plum plm plllluuum

full and strong in Neil's face.
plum plm pluuum pl Plum'p plum.




"You will be able to walk in a few minutes," he said. "You and Winnsome
"Plm plum pl plum pl plum pl p plm pllllum," pl plum. "Plm plm Plluuuum

must leave here. We are on the mainland and if you follow the shore
plum pllum plum. Pl plm pl plm plllluum plm pl plm pluuum plm pllum

northward you will come to the settlements. I am going back for Marion."
plllluuum plm plum plum pl plm plllllluuum. P pl pluum plum plm Pluuum."




Neil made an effort to follow him as he rose to his feet.
Plum plum pl plluum pl plluum plm pl pl plum pl plm plum.




"Nat--Nat--wait--"
"Plm--Plm--plum--"




Winnsome held him back, frightened, tightening her arms about him.
Plllluum plum plm plum, pllluuuuum, plllluuuum plm plum pluum plm.




"You must go with Winnsome," urged Nathaniel, seizing the hand that Neil
"Plm plum pl plum Plllluum," pllum Pllluuuum, pluuuum plm plum plum Plum

stretched up to him. "You must take her to the first settlement up the
plllluuum pl pl plm. "Plm plum plum plm pl plm pllum plllluuuum pl plm

coast. I will come back to you with Marion."
pluum. P plum plum plum pl plm plum Plluum."




He spoke confidently, as a man who sees his way open clearly before him,
Pl pllum plluuuuuuum, pl p plm plm plum plm plm plum pllllum plllum plm,

and yet as he turned, half running, to the low black shadow of the
plm plm pl pl pluuum, plum pllluum, pl plm plm pluum plllum pl plm

distant forest he knew that he was beginning a blind fight against fate.
pluuuum plllum pl plum plum pl plm plluuuuum p pllum pluum pluuuum plum.

If he could find a hunter's cabin, a fisherman's shanty--a boat!
Pl pl pllum plum p pluuum'p pluum, p pllllllum'p pluuum--p plum!




Barely had he disappeared when a voice called to him. It was Winnsome.
Plluum plm pl plllluuuuum plum p pllum plllum pl plm. Pl plm Plllllum.

The girl ran up to him holding something in her hand. It was a pistol.
Plm plum plm pl pl plm plluuum pllluuuum pl plm plum. Pl plm p plllum.

"You may need it!" she exclaimed. "We brought two!"
"Plm plm plum pl!" plm pllllluum. "Pl pllllum plm!"




Nathaniel reached out hesitatingly, but not to take the weapon. Gently,
Pllllluum pluuuum plm pluuuuuuuuum, plm plm pl plum plm plluum. Pluuum,

as though his touch was about to fall upon some fragile flower, he drew
pl pluuum plm pllum plm pluum pl plum plum plum pllluum plluum, pl plum

the girl to him, took her beautiful face between his two strong hands
plm plum pl plm, plum plm pllllluum plum plluuum plm plm plllum pluum

and gazed steadily and silently for a moment into her eyes.
plm pluum plllllum plm pllluuum plm p plluum plum plm plum.




"God bless you, little Winnsome!" he whispered. "I hope that someday you
"Plm pluum plm, plllum Plllllum!" pl plluuuuum. "P plum plum pllluum plm

will--forgive me."
plum--pllluum pl."




The girl understood him.
Plm plum plllluuuum plm.




"If I have anything to forgive--you are forgiven."
"Pl P plum plluuuum pl plluuum--plm plm pluuuuum."




The pistol dropped upon the sand, her hands stole to his shoulders.
Plm plllum pllluum plum plm plum, plm pluum pllum pl plm pllllllum.




"I want you to take something to Marion for me," she whispered softly.
"P plum plm pl plum pllluuuum pl Plllum plm pl," plm plluuuuum pluuum.

"This!"
"Plum!"




And she kissed him.
Plm plm plluum plm.




Her eyes shone upon him like a benediction.
Plm plum pllum plum plm plum p plllluuuuum.




"You have given me a new life, you have given me--Neil! My prayers are
"Plm plum pllum pl p plm plum, plm plum pluum pl--Plum! Pl pllllum plm

with you."
plum plm."




And kissing him again, she slipped away from under his hands before he
Plm pllllum plm pllum, plm pllllum plum plum pllum plm pllum plluum pl

could speak.
pllum pllum.




And Nathaniel, following her with his eyes until he could no longer see
Plm Plllluuum, pllluuuum plm plum plm plum pllum pl pllum pl pluuum plm

her, picked up the pistol and set off again toward the forest, the touch
plm, plluum pl plm pluuum plm plm plm pllum pluuum plm plluum, plm pllum

of her lips and the prayers of this girl whose father he had slain
pl plm plum plm plm plluuum pl plum plum pllum plluum pl plm pluum

filling him with something that was more than strength, more than hope.
pllluum plm plum plllluuum plum plm plum plum pluuuuum, plum plum plum.

Life had been given to him again, strong, fighting life, and with it and
Plum plm plum pluum pl plm pluum, plllum, pllluuum plum, plm plum pl plm

Winnsome's words there returned his old confidence, his old daring.
Plllllum'p pluum pluum plllllum plm plm plllluuuum, plm plm pluuum.

There was everything for him to win now. His doubts and his fears had
Pluum plm plluuuuuum plm plm pl plm plm. Plm plllum plm plm pllum plm

been swept away. Marion was not dead, she was not the king's wife--and
plum pllum plum. Plluum plm plm plum, plm plm plm plm plum'p plum--plm

it was not of another that he had accepted proof of her love for him,
pl plm plm pl pllluum plum pl plm plllluum pluum pl plm plum plm plm,

for he had felt the pressure of her arms about his neck and the warmth
plm pl plm plum plm plluuuum pl plm plum pllum plm plum plm plm pluuum

of her lips upon his face. He had until night--and the dawn was just
pl plm plum plum plm plum. Pl plm pllum pluum--plm plm plum plm plum

beginning to break. Ten or fifteen miles to the north there were
pllllluum pl pllum. Plm pl plluuum pllum pl plm pllum pluum plum

settlements, and between there were scores of settlers' homes and
pluuuuuuuum, plm pllluum pllum plum plluum pl plluuuum' pllum plm

fishermen's shanties. Surely within an hour or two he would find a boat.
plluuuuum'p plllluum. Plllum plllum pl plum pl plm pl pllum plum p plum.




He turned where the edge of the forest came down to meet the white
Pl plllum pluum plm plum pl plm pluuum plum plum pl plum plm pluum

water-run of the sea, and set off at a slow, steady trot into the north.
pluum-plm pl plm plm, plm plm plm pl p plum, pluuum plum plum plm pllum.

If he could reach a boat soon he might overtake Marion in mid-lake. The
Pl pl pllum pluum p plum plum pl pluum plllluum Plllum pl plm-plum. Plm

thought thrilled him, and urged him to greater speed. As the stars faded
pluuuum pluuuuum plm, plm pluum plm pl pllluum pllum. Pl plm pllum pluum

away in the dawn he saw the dark barrier of the forest drifting away,
plum pl plm plum pl plm plm plum pllllum pl plm plluum plllllum plum,

and later, when the light broke more clearly, there stretched out ahead
plm pllum, plum plm pluum pllum plum pllluum, pllum pllllluum plm pllum

of him mile upon mile of desert dunes. As far as he could see there was
pl plm plum plum plum pl pluuum pluum. Pl plm pl pl pluum plm pllum plm

no hope of life. He slowed his steps now, for he would need to preserve
pl plum pl plum. Pl plllum plm pluum plm, plm pl pllum plum pl pluuuuum

his strength. Yet he experienced no fear, no loss of confidence. Each
plm plluuuum. Plm pl plllllluuum pl plum, pl plum pl pllllluuum. Plum

moment added to his faith in himself. Before noon he would be on his
plluum pllum pl plm pllum pl plluuum. Plluum plum pl pluum pl pl plm

way to the Mormon kingdom, by nightfall he would be upon its shores.
plm pl plm Plllum pllluum, pl pllluuuum pl pluum pl plum plm plllum.

After that--
Pluum plum--




He examined the pistol that Winnsome had given him. There were five
Pl plllluum plm plllum plum Pllluuum plm pllum plm. Pllum plum plum

shots in it and he smiled joyously as he saw that it had been loaded by
pluum pl pl plm pl plllum plluuuum pl pl plm plum pl plm plum plllum pl

an experienced hand. It would be easy enough for him to find Strang. He
pl plluuuuuuum plum. Pl pluum pl plum plluum plm plm pl plum Plllum. Pl

would not consider the woman--his wife. The king's wife! Like a flash
pluum plm plllllum plm pllum--plm plum. Plm plum'p plum! Plum p pluum

there occurred to him the incident of the battlefield. Was it this
pluum pllluuum pl plm plm plllluum pl plm plllllluuum. Plm pl plum

woman--the woman who had begged him to spare the life of the prophet,
pluum--plm pllum plm plm pluuum plm pl pllum plm plum pl plm pllllum,

who had knelt beside him, and whispered in his ear, and kissed him? Had
plm plm pllum plllum plm, plm pllllluum pl plm plm, plm plllum plm? Plm

that been her reward for the sacrifice she believed he had made for her
plum plum plm plllum plm plm pllllluum plm plllluum pl plm plum plm plm

in the castle chamber? The thought of this woman, whose beauty and love
pl plm plllum pllllum? Plm pllllum pl plum pluum, pllum pluuum plm plum

breathed the sweet purity of a flower and whose faith to her king and
plllllum plm pllum plllum pl p pluuum plm pllum pllum pl plm plum plm

master was still unbroken even in her hour of repudiation fell upon him
plllum plm pllum plllllum plum pl plm plum pl plluuuuuuum plum plum plm

heavily. For there was no choice, no shadow of alternative. There was
pllluum. Plm pllum plm pl pluuum, pl pluuum pl pllllllllum. Pluum plm

but one way for him to break the bondage of the girl he loved.
plm plm plm plm plm pl pllum plm pllllum pl plm plum pl pluum.




For hours he trod steadily through the sand. The sun rose above him, hot
Plm pluum pl plum plluuuum plluuum plm plum. Plm plm plum pllum plm, plm

and blistering, and the dunes still stretched out ahead of him, like
plm plllluuuum, plm plm pluum pllum pllllluum plm pllum pl plm, plum

winnows and hills and mountains of glittering glass. Gradually the
pllluum plm pluum plm pllllllum pl pllllluuum pllum. Plllluuum plm

desert became narrower. Far ahead he could see where the forest came
pluuum plluum plluuuum. Plm pluum pl pllum plm pllum plm plllum plum

down to the shore and his heart grew lighter. Half an hour later he
plum pl plm pluum plm plm pluum plum pllluum. Plum pl plum pllum pl

entered the margin of trees. Almost immediately he found signs of life.
plluuum plm pluuum pl pllum. Pluuum plluuuuuuum pl pluum pluum pl plum.

A tree had been felled and cut into wood. A short distance beyond he
P plum plm plum plluum plm plm plum plum. P pllum pluuuuum pluuum pl

came suddenly upon a narrow path, beaten hard by the passing of feet,
plum plllllum plum p pluuum plum, pluuum plum pl plm pllllum pl plum,

and leading toward the lake. He had meant to rest under the shade of
plm plluuum pluuum plm plum. Pl plm pllum pl plum pluum plm pluum pl

these trees but now he forgot his fatigue. For a moment he hesitated.
pluum pluum plm plm pl pluuum plm plluuum. Plm p plluum pl plllluuum.

Far back in the forest he heard the barking of a dog--but he turned in
Plm plum pl plm pluuum pl pluum plm plluuum pl p plm--plm pl pluuum pl

the opposite direction. If there was a boat the path would take him to
plm plllluum pllluuuum. Pl pllum plm p plum plm plum pluum plum plm pl

it. Through a break in the trees he caught the green sweep of marsh rice
pl. Plluuum p pluum pl plm pluum pl pluuum plm pllum pluum pl pluum plum

and his heart beat excitedly with hope. Where there was rice there were
plm plm pluum plum pluuuuuum plum plum. Pluum pluum plm plum pllum plum

wild-fowl, and surely where there were wild-fowl, there would be a punt
plum-plum, plm plluum pluum pllum plum plum-plum, pluum pluum pl p plum

or a canoe! In his eagerness he ran, and where the path ended, the flags
pl p pluum! Pl plm plluuuuum pl plm, plm pllum plm plum pllum, plm pluum

and rice beaten into the mud and water, he stopped with an exultant cry.
plm plum plluum plum plm plm plm pluum, pl plluuum plum pl pluuuuum plm.

At his feet was a canoe. It was wet, as though just drawn out of the
Pl plm plum plm p pluum. Pl plm plm, pl pluuum plum pllum plm pl plm

water, and a freshly used paddle was lying across the bow. Pausing but
pllum, plm p pllllum plum pluuum plm pluum pluuum plm plm. Pllllum plm

to take a quick and cautious glance about him he shoved the frail craft
pl plum p pllum plm pluuuuum pluuum pluum plm pl plllum plm pluum pllum

into the lake and with a few quiet strokes buried himself in the rice
plum plm plum plm plum p plm pluum pluuuum plllum pluuuum pl plm plum

grass. When he emerged from it he was half a mile from the shore.
pllum. Plum pl plluuum plum pl pl plm plum p plum plum plm pluum.




For a long time he sat motionless, looking out over the shimmering sea.
Plm p plum plum pl plm plluuuuuum, pluuuum plm plum plm pllllluuum plm.

Far to the south and west he could make out the dim outline of Beaver
Plm pl plm pllum plm plum pl pllum plum plm plm plm pllllum pl Plllum

Island, while over the trail he had come, mile upon mile, lay the
Pluuum, pluum plum plm pllum pl plm plum, plum plum plum, plm plm

glistening dunes. Somewhere between the white desert sand and that
plllluuuum pluum. Pllllluum pluuuum plm pllum pluuum plum plm plum

distant coast of the Mormon kingdom Marion was making her way back to
plluuum pllum pl plm Plluum plluuum Plluum plm plluum plm plm plum pl

bondage. Nathaniel had given up all hope of overtaking her now. Long
pllluum. Plllluuum plm pluum pl plm plum pl pllllluuum plm plm. Plum

before he could intercept her she would have reached the island. When he
pluuum pl pllum plllluuum plm plm pllum plum pluuuum plm pluuum. Plum pl

started again he paddled slowly, and laid out for himself the plan that
pllluum pluum pl plluuum plluum, plm plum plm plm pluuuum plm plum plum

he was to follow. There must be no mistake this time, no error in
pl plm pl pluuum. Pllum plum pl pl pluuuum plum plum, pl pluum pl

judgment, no rashness in his daring. He would lie in hiding until dusk,
pllluuum, pl plluuuum pl plm plluum. Pl pllum plm pl pluuum pluum plum,

and then under cover of darkness he would hunt down Strang and kill him.
plm plum pluum pluum pl plluuuum pl pluum plum plum Plluum plm plum plm.

After that he would fly to his canoe and escape. A little later, perhaps
Pluum plum pl pluum plm pl plm pllum plm plluum. P plllum pluum, pllluum

that very night if fate played the game well for him, he would return
plum plum pluum pl plum plllum plm plum plum plm plm, pl pllum plluum

for Marion. And yet, as he went over and over his scheme, whipping
plm Plllum. Plm plm, pl pl plum plum plm plum plm plllum, plllluum

himself into caution--into cool deliberation--there burned in his blood
pllllum plum pllllum--plum plum plllluuuuuum--pluum plllum pl plm pllum

a fire that once or twice made him set his teeth hard, a fire that
p plum plum plum pl pllum plum plm plm plm pluum plum, p plum plum

defied extinction, that smoldered only to await the breath that would
pluuum plllluuuum, plum pllluuuum plum pl pllum plm plluum plum pluum

fan it into a fierce blaze. It was the fire that had urged him into the
plm pl plum p plllum pllum. Pl plm plm plum plum plm pluum plm plum plm

rescue at the whipping-post, that had sent him single-handed to invade
pluuum pl plm plluuuum-plum, plum plm plum plm plluum-pluuum pl pluuum

the king's castle, that had hurled him into the hopeless battle upon the
plm plum'p plllum, plum plm pluuum plm plum plm plllluum pluuum plum plm

shore. He swore at himself softly, laughingly, as he paddled steadily
pllum. Pl pluum pl pluuuum pluuum, plluuuuuum, pl pl pluuuum pluuuuum

toward Beaver Island.
plllum Pluuum Plluum.




The sun mounted straight and hot over his head; he paddled more slowly,
Plm plm plluuum plluuuum plm plm plum plm plum; pl pluuuum plum plllum,

and rested more frequently, as it descended into the west, but it still
plm plllum plum plllllluum, pl pl plluuuuum plum plm plum, plm pl pluum

lacked two hours of sinking behind the island forest when the white
plluum plm pllum pl plluuum pluuum plm pluuum pluuum plum plm pluum

water-run of the shore came within his vision. He had meant to hold off
pluum-plm pl plm pllum plum plluum plm plllum. Pl plm pluum pl plum plm

the coast until the approach of evening but changed his mind and landed,
plm pllum pluum plm pluuuuum pl pluuuum plm plluuum plm plum plm pluuum,

concealing his canoe in a spot which he marked well, for he knew it
plllllllum plm pluum pl p plum pllum pl pluuum plum, plm pl plum pl

would soon be useful to him again. Deep shadows were already gathering
pllum plum pl plllum pl plm pluum. Plum pluuuum plum plluuum pluuuuuum

in the forest and through these Nathaniel made his way slowly in the
pl plm plluum plm pllluum pllum Plllluuum plum plm plm plluum pl plm

direction of St. James. Between him and the town lay Marion's home and
pllllllum pl Pl. Pllum. Plluuum plm plm plm plum plm Plluum'p plum plm

the path that led to Obadiah's. Once more the spirit of impatience, of
plm plum plum plm pl Pllluum'p. Plum plum plm pluuum pl plllluuuum, pl

action, stirred within him. Would Marion go first to her home?
plllum, plluuum plllum plm. Pllum Plluum pl pllum pl plm plum?

Involuntarily he changed his course so that it would bring him to the
Pluuuuuuuuuum pl plluuum plm pluuum pl plum pl pllum pluum plm pl plm

clearing. He assured himself that it would do no harm, that he still
pluuuuum. Pl plluuum plluuum plum pl pluum pl pl plum, plum pl pluum

would take no chances.
pluum plum pl pluuuum.




He came out in the strip of dense forest between the clearing and St.
Pl plum plm pl plm pllum pl pllum pluuum pllllum plm pluuuuum plm Pl.

James, worming his way cautiously through the underbrush until he could
Pluum, pllluum plm plm plllllllum plluuum plm plllllllum pluum pl pllum

look out into the opening. A single glance and he drew back in
plum plm plum plm plluuum. P plluum pluuum plm pl plum plum pl

astonishment. He looked again, and his face turned suddenly white, and
plluuuuuuuum. Pl plllum pluum, plm plm plum pluuum pluuuuum pllum, plm

an almost inaudible cry fell from his lips. There was no longer a cabin
pl plllum pllllllum plm plum plum plm plum. Pluum plm pl pluuum p pllum

in the clearing! Where it had been there was gathered a crowd of men and
pl plm pllluuum! Pllum pl plm plum pllum plm plllllum p pluum pl plm plm

boys. Above their heads he saw a thin film of smoke and he knew what had
plum. Pllum pluum pluum pl plm p plum plum pl pllum plm pl plum plum plm

happened. Marion's home had burned! But what was the crowd doing? It
plllluum. Pluuum'p plum plm plluum! Plm plum plm plm pllum pluum? Pl

hung close in about the smoldering ruins as if every person in it were
plum pllum pl pluum plm plllllluum pllum pl pl pllum plluum pl pl plum

striving to reach a common center. Surely a mere fire would not gather
plllllum pl pluum p plluum plluum. Plluum p plum plum pluum plm plllum

and hold a throng like this.
plm plum p plluum plum plum.




Nathaniel rose to his feet and thrust his head and shoulders from his
Plluuuuum plum pl plm plum plm plllum plm plum plm pllluuuum plum plm

hiding-place. He heard a loud shout near him and drew back quickly as a
plluum-pluum. Pl pluum p plum pluum plum plm plm plum plum pluuuum pl p

boy rushed madly across the opening toward the crowd, crying out at the
plm plluum pluum plluum plm pllllum plluum plm pluum, plluum plm pl plm

top of his voice. He had come out of the path that led to St. James. No
plm pl plm pllum. Pl plm plum plm pl plm plum plum plm pl Pl. Pluum. Pl

sooner had he reached the group about the burned cabin than there came a
plluum plm pl pllluum plm pllum pllum plm pluuum pllum plum pllum plum p

change that added to Nathaniel's bewilderment. He heard loud voices, the
pluuum plum pluum pl Plllluuum'p plllllllluum. Pl pluum plum pluuum, plm

excited shouting of men and the shrill cries of boys, and the crowd
pluuuum pluuuuum pl plm plm plm plluum pllum pl plum, plm plm pluum

suddenly began to move, thinning itself out until it was racing in a
pluuuuum pluum pl plum, plllluum pluuum plm pllum pl plm pluuum pl p

black stream toward the Mormon city. In his excitement Nathaniel hurried
pluum plluum plllum plm Plllum plum. Pl plm plluuuuuum Pllluuuum plluuum

toward the path. From the concealment of a clump of bushes he watched
pluuum plm plum. Plum plm plluuuuuuum pl p pllum pl plllum pl pllluum

the people as they rushed past him a dozen paces away. Behind all the
plm pluuum pl plum plllum plum plm p pllum pllum plum. Plluum plm plm

others there came a figure that drew a sharp cry from him as he leaped
plllum pllum plum p plllum plum plum p pluum plm plum plm pl pl pluuum

from his hiding-place. It was Obadiah Price.
plum plm plluum-pllum. Pl plm Pllllum Pluum.




"Obadiah!" he called. "Obadiah Price!"
"Plluuum!" pl plluum. "Pllluum Pluum!"




The old man turned. His face was livid. He was chattering to himself,
Plm plm plm plluum. Plm plum plm pluum. Pl plm plllllluum pl pllllum,

and he chattered still as he ran up to Nathaniel. He betrayed no
plm pl pluuuuuum pllum pl pl plm pl pl Plllluuum. Pl pllluuum pl

surprise at seeing him, and yet there was the insane grip of steel in
pllluuum pl plllum plm, plm plm pllum plm plm plluum plum pl pluum pl

the two hands that clutched fiercely at Nathaniel's.
plm plm pluum plum plluuuum plllllum pl Pllllllum'p.




"You have come in time, Nat!" he panted joyfully. "You have come in
"Plm plum plum pl plum, Plm!" pl plllum pllluuum. "Plm plum plum pl

time! Hurry--hurry--hurry--"
plum! Pllum--pllum--pllum--"




He ran back into the clearing, with Nathaniel close at his side, and
Pl plm plum plum plm pluuuuum, plum Pllllluum pllum pl plm plum, plm

pointed to the smoking ruins of the cabin among the lilacs.
pllllum pl plm pllllum pluum pl plm pluum pllum plm pluuum.




"They were killed last night!" he cried shrilly. "Somebody murdered
"Plum plum plluum plum pllum!" pl pluum pllluum. "Pluuuuum pluuuuum

them--and burned them with the house! They are dead--dead!"
plum--plm plluum plum plum plm pluum! Plum plm plum--plum!"




"Who?" shouted Nathaniel.
"Plm?" pluuuum Pluuuuuum.




Obadiah had stopped and was rubbing and twisting his hands in his old,
Pllllum plm plluuum plm plm pllluum plm pluuuuum plm pllum pl plm plm,

mad way.
plm plm.




"The old folks. Ho, ho, the old folks, of course! They are
"Plm plm pluum. Pl, pl, plm plm pllum, pl pluuum! Plum plm

dead--dead--dead--"
plum--plum--plum--"




He fairly shrieked the words. Then, for a moment, he stood tightly
Pl pluuum pllluuum plm pluum. Plum, plm p pluuum, pl pllum pllluum

clutching his thin hands over his chest in a powerful effort to control
pllllluum plm plum pluum plum plm pluum pl p pllluuum plluum pl pllllum

himself.
plluuum.




"They are dead!" he repeated.
"Plum plm plum!" pl pluuuuum.




He spoke more calmly, and yet there was something so terrible in his
Pl pluum plum plllum, plm plm pluum plm pluuuuuum pl plllllum pl plm

eyes, something so harshly vibrant of elation in the quivering passion
plum, pllllllum pl plluuum pllluum pl pllluum pl plm pllluuuum pllllum

of his voice that Nathaniel felt himself filled with a strange horror.
pl plm pluum plum Pluuuuuum plum pllluum plluum plum p plluuum plllum.

He caught him by the arm, shaking him as he would have shaken a child.
Pl plllum plm pl plm plm, pllluum plm pl pl pluum plum plluum p pluum.




"Where is Marion?" he asked. "Tell me, Obadiah--where is Marion?"
"Pluum pl Pluuum?" pl pllum. "Plum pl, Pllllum--pluum pl Pluuum?"




The councilor seemed not to have heard him. A singular change came into
Plm plllluuum plluum plm pl plum pluum plm. P pluuuuum plllum plum plum

his face and his eyes traveled beyond Nathaniel. Following his glance
plm plum plm plm plum plllluum plllum Pllluuuum. Pllllluum plm plllum

the young man saw that three men had appeared from the scorched
plm pllum plm plm plum pluum plm plm plllllum plum plm plllllum

shrubbery about the burned house and were hurrying toward them. Without
plllluuum pllum plm plllum pluum plm plum plluuuum plluum plum. Pluuuum

shifting his eyes Obadiah spoke to him quickly.
pllluuum plm plum Pluuuum pluum pl plm plluuum.




"Those are king's sheriffs, Nat," he said. "They know me. In a moment
"Pluum plm plum'p pluuuuum, Plm," pl plum. "Plum plum pl. Pl p plluum

they will recognize you. The United States warship _Michigan_ has just
plum plum plllluuum plm. Plm Pluuum Plllum plluuum pLlllluuum plm plum

arrived in the harbor to arrest Strang. If you can reach the cabin and
pluuuum pl plm plluum pl plllum Plllum. Pl plm plm pllum plm pllum plm

hold it for an hour you will be saved. Quick--you must run--"
plum pl plm pl plum plm plum pl pluum. Pllum--plm plum plm--"




"Where is Marion?"
"Pllum pl Plluum?"




"At the cabin! She is at--"
"Pl plm pluum! Plm pl pl--"




Nathaniel waited to hear no more, but sped toward the breach in the
Pllluuuum plluum pl plum pl plum, plm plum plluum plm pluuum pl plm

forest that marked the beginning of the path to Obadiah's. The shouts of
pluuum plum plllum plm pllllllum pl plm plum pl Pllluum'p. Plm plluum pl

the king's men came to him unheeded. At the edge of the woods he glanced
plm plum'p plm plum pl plm plluuuum. Pl plm plum pl plm pluum pl pllllum

back and saw that they had overtaken the councilor. As he ran he drew
plum plm plm plum plum plm pllluuuum plm pluuuuuum. Pl pl plm pl plum

his pistol and in his wild joy he flung back a shout of defiance to the
plm plluum plm pl plm plum plm pl pllum plum p pllum pl pluuuuum pl plm

men who were pursuing him. Marion was at the cabin--and a government
plm plm plum pllluuum plm. Plllum plm pl plm pllum--plm p pllluuuuum

ship had come to put an end to the reign of the Mormon king! He shouted
plum plm plum pl plm pl plm pl plm pluum pl plm Plluum plum! Pl pllluum

Marion's name as he came in sight of the cabin; he cried it aloud as he
Plluum'p plum pl pl plum pl pluum pl plm pluum; pl pluum pl pluum pl pl

bounded up the low steps.
pllllum pl plm plm pllum.




"Marion--Marion--"
"Plluum--Plllum--"




In front of the door that led to the tiny chamber in which he had taken
Pl pluum pl plm plum plum plm pl plm plum plluuum pl pllum pl plm pllum

Obadiah's gold he saw a figure. For a moment he was blinded by his
Pluuuum'p plum pl plm p pluuum. Plm p plluum pl plm pluuuum pl plm

sudden dash from the light of day into the gloom of the cabin, and he
plluum plum plum plm pllum pl plm plum plm pluum pl plm pluum, plm pl

saw only that a figure was standing there, as still as death. His
plm plum plum p pluuum plm pllluuum pllum, pl pllum pl pluum. Plm

pistol dropped to the floor. He stretched out his arms, and his voice
pluuum pllllum pl plm pluum. Pl pluuuuuum plm plm plum, plm plm pluum

sobbed in its entreaty as he whispered the girl's name. In response to
plllum pl plm plllllum pl pl plluuuuum plm plum'p plum. Pl pluuuuum pl

that whisper came a low, glad cry, and Marion lay trembling on his
plum pllllum plum p plm, plum plm, plm Plllum plm pluuuuuum pl plm

breast.
plllum.




"I have come back for you!" he breathed.
"P plum plum plum plm plm!" pl plluuuum.




He felt her heart beating against him. He pressed her closer, and her
Pl plum plm pluum plluuum pllluum plm. Pl plluuum plm pluuum, plm plm

arms slipped about his neck.
plum pllluum pluum plm plum.




"I have come back for you!"
"P plum plum plum plm plm!"




He was almost crying, like a boy, in his happiness.
Pl plm pluuum plluum, plum p plm, pl plm plluuuuum.




"I love you, I love you--"
"P plum plm, P plum plm--"




He felt the warm touch of her lips.
Pl plum plm plum pluum pl plm plum.




"You will go with me?"
"Plm plum pl plum pl?"




"If you want me," she whispered. "If you want me--after you know--what I
"Pl plm plum pl," plm pllllllum. "Pl plm plum pl--pluum plm plum--plum P

am--"
pl--"




She shuddered against his breast, and he raised her face between his two
Plm pllllllum plluuum plm pluuum, plm pl pluuum plm plum pllllum plm plm

hands and kissed her until she drew away from him, crying softly.
pluum plm plluum plm pluum plm plum plum plum plm, pluuum plluum.




[Illustration: Marion]
[Plllllllllum: Plllum]




"You must wait--you must wait!"
"Plm plum plum--plm plum plum!"




He saw now in her face an agony that appalled him. He would have gone to
Pl plm plm pl plm plum pl pllum plum pllluuum plm. Pl pllum plum plum pl

her again, but there came loud voices from the forest, and recovering
plm pluum, plm pluum plum plum pluuum plum plm pluuum, plm pllllluuum

his pistol he sprang to the door. Half a hundred paces away were Obadiah
plm plllum pl plllum pl plm plum. Plum p pluuuum pluum plum plum Pllllum

and the king's sheriffs. They had stopped and the councilor was
plm plm plum'p plllllum. Plum plm pllluum plm plm pluuuuuum plm

expostulating excitedly with the men, evidently trying to keep them from
pllluuuuuuuum pllllluum plum plm plm, pllluuuum pluuum pl plum plum plum

the cabin. Suddenly one of the three broke past him and ran swiftly
plm pllum. Plllluum plm pl plm pllum pluum plum plm plm plm pllllum

toward the open door, and with a shriek of warning to Nathaniel the old
plluum plm plum plum, plm plum p plluum pl pllllum pl Pllluuuum plm plm

councilor drew a pistol and fired point blank in the sheriff's back. In
pluuuuuum plum p plluum plm pllum pllum pluum pl plm pluuuum'p plum. Pl

another instant the two men behind had fired and Obadiah fell forward
pllllum pllllum plm plm plm plllum plm pllum plm Pluuuum plum pllllum

upon his face.
plum plm plum.




With a yell of rage Nathaniel leaped from the door. He heard Marion cry
Plum p plum pl plum Pluuuuuum plllum plum plm plum. Pl pluum Plllum plm

out his name, but his fighting blood was stirred and he did not stop.
plm plm plum, plm plm pllluuum pluum plm plluuum plm pl plm plm plum.

Obadiah had given up his life for him, for Marion, and he was mad with a
Pluuuum plm pllum pl plm plum plm plm, plm Plllum, plm pl plm plm plum p

desire to wreak vengeance upon the murderers. The first man lay where he
plluum pl pluum pllllllum plum plm pllllluum. Plm pluum plm plm pluum pl

had fallen, with Obadiah's bullet through his back. The other two fired
plm plluum, plum Plluuum'p plllum pluuuum plm plum. Plm pluum plm pluum

again as Nathaniel rushed down upon them. He heard the zip of one of the
pluum pl Pllllluum plllum plum plum plum. Pl pluum plm plm pl plm pl plm

balls, which came so close that it stung his cheek.
pllum, pllum plum pl pllum plum pl pllum plm pllum.




"Take that!" he cried.
"Plum plum!" pl pllum.




He fired, still running--once, twice, three times and one of the two men
Pl pllum, pllum pluuuum--plum, pluum, pllum pllum plm plm pl plm plm plm

crumpled down as though a powerful blow had broken his legs under him.
plllluum plum pl plluum p plllluum plum plm plluum plm plum pllum plm.




The other turned into the path and ran. Nathaniel caught a glimpse of a
Plm pllum plllum plum plm plum plm plm. Pllllllum plllum p plluuum pl p

frightened, boyish face, and something of mercy prompted him to hold the
plllluuuum, plluum plum, plm pluuuuuum pl pluum pluuuuum plm pl plum plm

shot he was about to send through his lungs.
plum pl plm pllum pl plum pluuuum plm pluum.




"Stop!" he shouted. "Stop!"
"Plum!" pl plluuum. "Plum!"




He aimed at the fugitive's legs and fired.
Pl pllum pl plm plllllum'p plum plm pluum.




"Stop!"
"Plum!"




The boyish sheriff was lengthening the distance between them and
Plm plllum plluuum plm pllllluuuum plm plllluum pllllum plum plm

Nathaniel halted to make sure of his last ball. He was about to shoot
Pllluuuum plllum pl plum plum pl plm plum plum. Pl plm pluum pl pllum

when there came a sharp command from down the path and a file of men
plum pllum plum p pluum plluuum plum plum plm plum plm p plum pl plm

burst into view, running at double-quick. He saw the flash of a saber,
pllum plum plum, pllllum pl plluum-pluum. Pl plm plm pluum pl p pllum,

the gleam of brass buttons, the blue glare of the setting sun on leveled
plm pllum pl pluum pluuuum, plm plum pluum pl plm pllllum plm pl pllluum

carbines, and he stopped, shoulder to shoulder with the man he had been
plluuuum, plm pl pllllum, plllluum pl pluuuuum plum plm plm pl plm plum

pursuing. For a moment he stared as the man with the naked saber
plllllum. Plm p pluuum pl plllum pl plm plm plum plm pluum pllum

approached. Then he sprang toward him with a joyful cry of recognition.
plllllllum. Plum pl plllum pluuum plm plum p plllum plm pl plllluuuuum.




"My God, Sherly--Sherly--"
"Pl Plm, Plllum--Pluuum--"




He stood with his arms stretched out, his naked chest heaving.
Pl pluum plum plm plum plluuuuum plm, plm pluum pllum pluuuum.




"Sherly--Lieutenant Sherly--don't you know me?"
"Plllum--Plllllluum Plluum--plm'p plm plum pl?"




The lieutenant had dropped the point of his saber. He advanced a step,
Plm plllllluum plm pluuuum plm pllum pl plm pluum. Pl pllluuum p plum,

his face filled with astonishment.
plm plum plluum plum plllllllluum.




"Plum!" he cried incredulously. "Is it you?"
"Plum!" pl pllum pllllllllllum. "Pl pl plm?"




For the moment Nathaniel could only wring the other's hand. He tried to
Plm plm pluuum Plllluuum pluum plum pluum plm pllum'p plum. Pl pluum pl

speak but his breath choked him.
pluum plm plm plluum plluum plm.




"I told you in Chicago that I was going to blow up this damned
"P plum plm pl Pllluum plum P plm pllum pl plum pl plum plluum

island--if you wouldn't do it for me--", he gasped at last. "I've had--a
pluuum--pl plm pluuum'p pl pl plm pl--", pl plllum pl plum. "P'pl plm--p

hell of a time--"
plum pl p plum--"




"You look it!" laughed the lieutenant. "We got our orders the second day
"Plm plum pl!" pllllum plm pluuuuuuum. "Pl plm plm pluuum plm plllum plm

after you left to 'Arrest Strang, and break up the Mormon kingdom!'
pllum plm plum pl 'Pluuum Plllum, plm pllum pl plm Plllum pluuuum!'

We've got Strang aboard the _Michigan_. But he's dead."
Pl'pl plm Plllum plllum plm pLllluuuum. Plm pl'p plum."




"Dead!"
"Plum!"




"He was shot in the back by one of his own men as we were bringing him
"Pl plm plum pl plm plum pl plm pl plm plm plm pl pl plum pllluuum plm

up the gang-way. The fellow who killed him has given himself up, and
pl plm plum-plm. Plm plllum plm plllum plm plm pllum plluuum pl, plm

says that he did it because Strang had him publicly whipped day before
plum plum pl plm pl pllllum Plluum plm plm pluuuuum pllllum plm plllum

yesterday. I'm up here hunting for a man named Obadiah Price. Do you
pllllllum. P'p pl plum pllluum plm p plm pluum Pllllum Pluum. Pl plm

know--"
plum--"




Nathaniel interrupted him excitedly.
Plluuuuum pllllluuuum plm pllllllum.




"What do you want with Obadiah Price?"
"Plum pl plm plum plum Pllluum Pllum?"




"The president of the United States wants him. That's all I know. Where
"Plm plluuuuum pl plm Pluuum Plluum pllum plm. Plum'p plm P plum. Pllum

is he?"
pl pl?"




"Back there--dead or very badly wounded! We've just had a fight with the
"Plum pllum--plum pl plum pluum pluuuum! Pl'pl plum plm p pluum plum plm

king's men--"
plum'p plm--"




The lieutenant broke in with a sharp command to his men.
Plm plluuuuuum pllum pl plum p pluum pllluum pl plm plm.




"Quick, lead us to him. Captain Plum! If he's not dead--"
"Pluum, plum pl pl plm. Plluuum Plum! Pl pl'p plm plum--"




He started off at a half run beside Nathaniel.
Pl pluuuum plm pl p plum plm plluum Plllluuum.




"Lord, it's a pretty mess if he is!" he added breathlessly. Without
"Plum, pl'p p plllum plum pl pl pl!" pl pluum plluuuuuuuum. Plluuum

pausing he called back over his shoulder, "Regan, fall out and return to
plluuum pl pluuum plum plum plm plllllum, "Pluum, plum plm plm pluuum pl

the ship. Tell the captain that Obadiah Price is badly wounded and that
plm plum. Plum plm pllllum plum Pllluum Pllum pl pllum pluuuum plm plum

we want the surgeon on the run!"
pl plum plm plluuum pl plm plm!"




A turn in the path brought them to the opening where the fight had
P plum pl plm plum pllllum plum pl plm pluuuum pluum plm pllum plm

occurred. Marion was on her knees beside the old councilor.
pluuuuum. Plluum plm pl plm pllum plllum plm plm pllllllum.




Nathaniel hurried ahead of the lieutenant and his men. The girl glanced
Pllllllum pllluum pllum pl plm pllluuuuum plm plm plm. Plm plum pllllum

up at him and his heart filled with dread at the terror in her eyes.
pl pl plm plm plm pluum plluum plum pluum pl plm plluum pl plm plum.




"Is he dead?"
"Pl pl plum?"




"No--but--" Her voice trembled with tears.
"Pl--plm--" Plm pluum plllllum plum pluum.




Nathaniel did not let her finish. Gently he raised her to her feet as
Pllluuuum plm plm plm plm pluuum. Pluuum pl plllum plm pl plm plum pl

the lieutenant came up.
plm plllllllum plum pl.




"You must go to the cabin, sweetheart," he whispered.
"Plm plum pl pl plm pllum, plllllluum," pl pllllllum.




Even in this moment of excitement and death his great love drove all
Plum pl plum pluuum pl plllllluum plm pllum plm pllum plum pllum plm

else from his eyes, and the blood surged into Marion's pale cheeks as
plum plum plm plum, plm plm pllum pluuum plum Plluum'p plum plllum pl

she tremblingly gave him her hand. He led her to the door, and held her
plm pluuuuuuuum plum plm plm plum. Pl plm plm pl plm plum, plm plum plm

for a moment in his arms.
plm p pluuum pl plm plum.




"Strang is dead," he said softly. In a few words he told her what had
"Plllum pl plum," pl plum pluuum. Pl p plm pluum pl plum plm plum plm

happened and turned back to the door, leaving her speechless.
plllllum plm plluum plum pl plm plum, pluuuum plm pllllluuum.




"If he is dying--you will tell me--" she called after him.
"Pl pl pl pllum--plm plum plum pl--" plm plluum pluum plm.




"Yes, yes, I will tell you."
"Plm, plm, P plum plum plm."




He ran back into the opening.
Pl plm plum plum plm plluuum.




The lieutenant had doubled his coat under Obadiah's head and his face
Plm pllluuuuum plm plluuum plm plum pllum Pllluum'p plum plm plm plum

was pale as he looked up at Nathaniel. The latter saw in his eyes what
plm plum pl pl plluum pl pl Pllllllum. Plm pluuum plm pl plm plum plum

his lips kept silent. The officer held something in his hand. It was the
plm plum plum plllum. Plm pllllum plum plllluuum pl plm plum. Pl plm plm

mysterious package which Captain Plum had taken his oath to deliver to
plllllllum pllluum pluum Plluuum Plum plm pllum plm plum pl plluuum pl

the president of the United States.
plm pllllluum pl plm Plllum Plluum.




"I don't dare move until the surgeon comes," said the lieutenant. "He
"P plm'p plum plum pllum plm pllluum pluum," plum plm pllluuuuum. "Pl

wants to speak to you. I believe, if he has anything to say you had
pllum pl pllum pl plm. P plluuum, pl pl plm plllluum pl plm plm plm

better hear it now."
plluum plum pl plm."




His last words were in a whisper so low that Nathaniel scarcely heard
Plm plum pllum plum pl p pllluum pl plm plum Pllluuuum plllluum pllum

them. As the lieutenant rose to his feet, he whispered again.
plum. Pl plm plllluuuum plum pl plm plum, pl pllluuuum pluum.




"He is dying!"
"Pl pl pluum!"




Obadiah's eyes opened as Nathaniel knelt beside him and from between his
Plluuum'p plum plllum pl Plluuuuum pluum plllum plm plm plum pllluum plm

thin lips there came faintly the old, gurgling chuckle.
plum plum pllum plum pllluum plm plm, plllluum pllllum.




"Nat!" he breathed. His thin hand sought his companion's and clung to it
"Plm!" pl plllllum. Plm plum plum plllum plm pllluuuum'p plm pllum pl pl

tightly. "We have won. The vengeance of God--has come!"
plluuum. "Pl plum plm. Plm plllluuum pl Plm--plm plum!"




In these last moments all madness had left the eyes of Obadiah Price.
Pl pllum plum pluuuum plm pllllum plm plum plm plum pl Pllllum Pluum.




"I want to tell you--" he whispered, and Nathaniel bent low. "I have
"P plum pl plum plm--" pl pllllllum, plm Pllllluum plum plm. "P plum

given him the package. It is evidence I have gathered--all these
pluum plm plm pllllum. Pl pl plluuuum P plum pllluuum--plm pluum

years--to destroy the Mormon kingdom."
pllum--pl pllllum plm Pluuum pllluum."




He tried to turn his head.
Pl pluum pl plum plm plum.




"Marion--" he whispered wistfully.
"Plluum--" pl plluuuuum plluuuuum.




"She will come," said Nathaniel. "I will call her."
"Plm plum plum," plum Pllllllum. "P plum plum plm."




"No--not yet."
"Pl--plm plm."




Obadiah's fingers tightened about Captain Plum's.
Pllluum'p pluuuum plluuuuum pllum Pllllum Plum'p.




"I want to tell--you."
"P plum pl plum--plm."




For a few moments he seemed struggling to command all his strength.
Plm p plm pllllum pl pluuum plluuuuuum pl pllllum plm plm plllluum.




"A good many years ago," he said, as if speaking to himself, "I loved a
"P plum plum pllum plm," pl plum, pl pl plluuuum pl pllllum, "P pluum p

girl--like Marion, and she loved me--as Marion loves you. Her people
plum--plum Plllum, plm plm pluum pl--pl Plluum pllum plm. Plm pluuum

were Mormons, and they went to Kirtland--and I followed them. We planned
plum Pluuuum, plm plum plum pl Pluuuuum--plm P pllluuum plum. Pl pllluum

to escape and go east, for my Jean was good and beautiful, and hated the
pl pluuum plm pl plum, plm pl Plum plm plum plm plllluuum, plm pluum plm

Mormons as I hated them. But they caught us and--thought--they--killed--"
Pluuuum pl P pllum plum. Plm plum pluuum pl plm--pllllum--plum--plllum--"




The old man's lips twitched and a convulsive shudder shook his body.
Plm plm plm'p plum pluuuuum plm p plllllllum plluuum pllum plm plum.




"When everything came back to me I was older--much older," he went on.
"Plum plllluuuum plum plum pl pl P plm pllum--plum pluum," pl plum pl.

"My hair was white. I was like an old man. My people had found me and
"Pl plum plm pllum. P plm plum pl plm plm. Pl plllum plm pllum pl plm

they told me that I had been mad for three years, Nat--mad--mad--mad!
plum plum pl plum P plm plum plm plm pllum pluum, Plm--plm--plm--plm!

and that a great surgeon had operated on my head, where they struck
plm plum p pllum pluuuum plm pluuuuum pl pl plum, pllum plum plluum

me--and brought me back to reason. Nat--Nat--" He strained to raise
pl--plm pluuuum pl plum pl plluum. Plm--Plm--" Pl plluuuum pl pluum

himself, gasping excitedly. "God, I was like you then, Nat! I went back
pllllum, pllluum pllllluum. "Plm, P plm plum plm plum, Plm! P plum plum

to fight for my Jean. She was gone. Nobody knew me, for I was an old
pl pllum plm pl Plum. Plm plm plum. Plllum plum pl, plm P plm pl plm

man. I hunted from settlement to settlement. In my madness I became a
plm. P plluum plum plllllllum pl plllllluum. Pl pl pllluum P pluuum p

Mormon, for vengeance--in hope of finding her. I was rich, and I became
Plluum, plm plluuuuum--pl plum pl pllllum plm. P plm plum, plm P plllum

powerful. I was made an elder because of my gold. Then I found--"
plllllum. P plm plum pl pllum pllluum pl pl plum. Plum P pllum--"




A moan trembled on the old man's lips.
P plum plllluum pl plm plm plm'p plum.




"--they had forced her to marry--the son of a Mormon--"
"--plum plm plluum plm pl pluum--plm plm pl p Pluuum--"




He stopped, and for a moment his eyes seemed filling with the glazed
Pl plluuum, plm plm p plluum plm plum pluuum pllluum plum plm plllum

shadows of death. He roused himself almost fiercely.
pllllum pl pluum. Pl plllum pluuuum plluum pllluuum.




"But he loved my Jean, Nat--he loved her as I loved her--and he was a
"Plm pl pllum pl Plum, Plm--pl pllum plm pl P pllum plm--plm pl plm p

good man!", he whispered shrilly. "Quick--quick--I must tell you--they
plum plm!", pl pluuuuuum pluuuum. "Pluum--pllum--P plum plum plm--plum

had tried to escape from Missouri and the Danites killed him,--and
plm pllum pl plllum plum Plluuuum plm plm Pllllum plllum plm,--plm

Joseph Smith wanted Jean and at the last moment she killed herself to
Plllum Pluum plluum Plum plm pl plm plum pluuum plm plluum plluuum pl

save her honor as Marion was going to do, and she left two children--"
plum plm pllum pl Plluum plm pllum pl pl, plm plm plum plm plluuuum--"




He coughed and blood flecked his lips.
Pl pllluum plm pluum pllluum plm plum.




"She left--Marion and Neil!"
"Plm plum--Plllum plm Plum!"




He sank back, ashen white and still, and with a cry Nathaniel turned to
Pl plum plum, pluum pllum plm pluum, plm plum p plm Pllllluum plllum pl

the lieutenant. The officer ran forward with a flask in his hand.
plm plluuuuuum. Plm pluuuum plm pluuuum plum p pllum pl plm plum.




"Give him this!"
"Plum plm plum!"




The touch of liquor to Obadiah's lips revived him. He whispered weakly.
Plm pllum pl pluuum pl Plluuum'p plum pllllum plm. Pl pllllllum plluum.




"The children, Nat--I tried to find them--and years after--I did--in
"Plm plllllum, Plm--P pllum pl plum plum--plm pluum pluum--P plm--pl

Nauvoo. The man and woman who had killed the father in their own house
Plllum. Plm plm plm pllum plm plm plluum plm pluuum pl pllum plm pluum

had taken them and were raising them as their own. I went mad!
plm pluum plum plm plum pluuuum plum pl pluum plm. P plum plm!

Vengeance--vengeance--I lived for it, year after year. I wanted the
Pllllllum--plluuuuum--P pllum plm pl, plum pllum plum. P plluum plm

children--but if I took them all would be lost. I followed them,
plllllum--plm pl P plum plum plm pluum pl plum. P plllllum plum,

watched them, loved them--and they loved me. I would wait--wait--until
pluuuum plum, pluum plum--plm plum pluum pl. P pllum plum--plum--pluum

my vengeance would fall like the hand of God, and then I would free
pl plllluuum pluum plum plum plm plum pl Plm, plm plum P pllum plum

them, and tell them how beautiful their mother was. When Joseph Smith
plum, plm plum plum plm pllllluum pluum plllum plm. Plum Plllum Pllum

was killed and the split came the old folks followed Strang--and I--I
plm plllum plm plm pllum plum plm plm pllum pllluuum Plllum--plm P--P

too--"
plm--"




He rested a moment, breathing heavily.
Pl plllum p pluuum, pllllluum pluuuum.




"I brought my Jean with me and buried her up there on the hill--the
"P pllllum pl Plum plum pl plm plluum plm pl pllum pl plm plum--plm

middle grave, Nat, the middle grave--Marion's mother."
plllum pluum, Plm, plm plluum pluum--Plluum'p plluum."




Nathaniel pressed the liquor to the old man's lips again.
Pllluuuum pluuuum plm plllum pl plm plm plm'p plum pllum.




"My vengeance was at hand--I was almost ready--when Strang learned a
"Pl plluuuuum plm pl plum--P plm pluuum pllum--plum Plllum pllluum p

part of the secret," he continued with an effort. "He found the old
plum pl plm pluuum," pl pllllluum plum pl plluum. "Pl pllum plm plm

people were murderers. When Marion would not become his wife he told her
pluuum plum plluuuuum. Plum Plllum pllum plm pluuum plm plum pl plum plm

what they had done. He showed her the evidence! He threatened them with
plum plum plm plum. Pl pluuum plm plm plllluum! Pl plllllllum plum plum

death unless Marion became his wife. His sheriffs watched them night
pluum plllum Plluum pluuum plm plum. Plm pluuuuum pllluum plum pluum

and day. He named the hour of their doom--unless Marion yielded to him.
plm plm. Pl pllum plm plum pl pllum plum--plllum Plluum pllllum pl plm.

And to save them, her supposed parents--to keep the terrible knowledge of
Plm pl plum plum, plm plllllum pluuuum--pl plum plm plllllum pllluuuum pl

their crime from Neil--Marion--was--going--to--sacrifice--herself--when--"
pllum pllum plum Plum--Pluuum--plm--pluum--pl--pllluuuum--pllluum--plum--"




Again he stopped. His breath was coming more faintly.
Pluum pl pllluum. Plm plluum plm plllum plum pluuuum.




"I understand," whispered Nathaniel. "I understand--"
"P plllllluum," pllllluum Pllluuuum. "P pllllluuum--"




Obadiah's dimming eyes gazed at him steadily.
Plluuum'p pluuuum plum pluum pl plm pluuuuum.




"I thought my vengeance would come--in time--to save her, Nat. But--it
"P plluuum pl pllllluum pllum plum--pl plum--pl plum plm, Plm. Plm--pl

failed. I knew of one other way and when all seemed lost--I took it. I
plllum. P plum pl plm pluum plm plm plum plm pluuum plum--P plum pl. P

killed the old people--the murderers of her father--of my Jean! I knew
pluuum plm plm plllum--plm pllllllum pl plm plllum--pl pl Plum! P plum

that would destroy Strang's power--"
plum pluum pluuuum Pluuum'p pluum--"




In a sudden spasm of strength he lifted his head. His voice came in a
Pl p plluum pluum pl pluuuuum pl plllum plm plum. Plm pllum plum pl p

hoarse, excited whisper.
pluuum, pllluum pluuuum.




"You won't tell Marion--you won't tell Marion that I killed them--"
"Plm plm'p plum Plluum--plm plm'p plum Pluuum plum P pluuum plum--"




"No--never."
"Pl--pllum."




Obadiah fell back with a relieved sigh. After a moment he added.
Pluuuum plum plum plum p plllllum plum. Pllum p plllum pl pluum.




"In a chest in the cabin there is a letter for Marion. It tells her
"Pl p pluum pl plm pllum pluum pl p pluuum plm Plluum. Pl pllum plm

about her mother--and the gold there--is for her--and Neil--"
pluum plm pluuum--plm plm plum pluum--pl plm plm--plm Plum--"




His eyes closed. A shudder passed through his form.
Plm plum plllum. P pluuuum plllum plluuum plm plum.




"Marion--" he breathed. "Marion!"
"Plllum--" pl pllluuum. "Plllum!"




Nathaniel rose to his feet and ran to the cabin door.
Pllluuuum plum pl plm plum plm plm pl plm pluum plum.




"Marion!" he called.
"Plluum!" pl plllum.




Blinding tears shut out the vision of the girl from his eyes. He
Pllluuum pluum plum plm plm plllum pl plm plum plum plm plum. Pl

pointed, looking from her, and she, knowing what he meant, sped past him
plluuum, pllluum plum plm, plm plm, plluuum plum pl pluum, plum plum plm

to the old councilor.
pl plm plm pllluuuum.




In the great low room in which Obadiah Price had spent so many years
Pl plm pllum plm plum pl pllum Pluuuum Pluum plm pllum pl plum pluum

planning his vengeance Captain Plum waited.
pllluuum plm plluuuuum Pllllum Plum plllum.




After a time, the girl came back.
Pllum p plum, plm plum plum plum.




There was great pain in her voice as she stretched out her arms to him
Pllum plm pllum plum pl plm pllum pl plm pllluuuum plm plm plum pl plm

blindly, sobbing his name.
pluuuum, plluuum plm plum.




"Gone--gone--they're all gone now--but Neil!"
"Plum--plum--plum'pl plm plum plm--plm Plum!"




Nathaniel held out his arms.
Plluuuuum plum plm plm plum.




"Only Neil,"--he cried, "only Neil--Marion--?"
"Plum Plum,"--pl pluum, "plum Plum--Pluuum--?"




"And you--you--you--"
"Plm plm--plm--plm--"




Her arms were around his neck, he held her throbbing against his breast.
Plm plum plum pluuum plm plum, pl plum plm plluuuuum pllllum plm plluum.




"And you--"
"Plm plm--"




She raised her face, glorious in its love.
Plm plllum plm plum, pluuuuum pl plm plum.




"If you want me--still."
"Pl plm plum pl--pllum."




And he whispered:
Plm pl pllllluum:




"For ever and for ever!"
"Plm plum plm plm plum!"







THE END
PLM PLM





































End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Courage of Captain Plum
Plm pl plm Plluuum Pllllluum PLlum pl Plm Pllllum pl Plluuum Plum

by James Oliver Curwood
pl Pluum Plluum Plluuum




*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE COURAGE OF CAPTAIN PLUM ***
*** PLM PL PLUM PLLLLUM PLLUUUUUM PLUUM PLM PLLLLUM PL PLLLLUM PLUM ***




***** This file should be named 12388.txt or 12388.zip *****
***** Plum plum plllum pl pluum pluum.plm pl pllum.plm *****

This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
Plum plm plm plllllllum pllum pl plluuum plluuum plum pl pllum pl:

        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/2/3/8/12388/
        plum://plm.pllluuuum.plm/p/p/p/p/pllum/




Produced by Suzanne Shell, Kara Passmore, Leah Moser and the Online
Plluuuum pl Pluuuum Pluum, Plum Plllluum, Plum Pllum plm plm Plluum

Distributed Proofreading Team.
Pluuuuuuuum Pluuuuuuuuum Plum.







Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
Pluuuum pllluuum plum pllllum plm plllllum plm--plm plm pllluuum

will be renamed.
plum pl pllluum.




Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
Plllluum plm pluum plum plllum plluum pluum plllluum pluum plum pl

one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
plm plum p Plluum Pluuum pluuuuuum pl pluum pllum, pl plm Plllllluum

(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
(plm plm!) plm plum plm pluuuuuuum pl pl plm Pluuum Pluuum plluuum

permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
plllllluum plm pluuuum pluuum plllluuum pllluuuum.  Plluuum pllum,

set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
plm pluum pl plm Plluuum Pllum pl Plm plum pl plum pllllum, pluum pl

copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
pllllum plm pluuuuuuuuum Pllluum Plluuuuum-pl pluuuuuuum pllum pl

protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
pllluum plm PLUUUUM PLUUUUUUM-pl plluuum plm pllllllum.  Pllllum

Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
Pllllllum pl p pllluuuuum plllluuum, plm plm plm pl plum pl plm

charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
plllum plm plm pLuuum, plluum plm pluuuum plluuuum pllllluuum.  Pl plm

do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
pl plm plllum plluuuum plm pluuum pl plum pLuum, plllluuum plum plm

rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
pllum pl plum plum.  Plm plm plm plum pLuum plm plluum plm plluuum

such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
plum pl plluuuum pl plllllluum pllum, plluuum, plluuuuuuuum plm

research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
pllluuum.  Plum plm pl plllluum plm pluuuum plm pllum plum--plm plm pl

practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
pllllllluum PLUUUUUM plum plluum plllum pLuuum.  Plluuuuuuuuuum pl

subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
pllllum pl plm pllllllum pluuuum, plllllllum pluuuuuuum

redistribution.
pllllluuuuuuum.










*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
*** PLLUM: PLUM PLLLLUM ***




THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLM PLUM PLUUUUM PLLLLUUUM PLUUUUM

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
PLUUUM PLUM PLUM PLLLUM PLM PLLLUUUUUM PL PLM PLUM PLUM




To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
Pl pllluum plm Pllluum Pllluuuum-pl pllllum pl plllluuum plm plum

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
pllllluuuuum pl pllllluuum pllum, pl pllum pl plllllllllum plum plum

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
(pl plm pllum plum pllluuuuum pl plm plm plum plm plluum "Pllluum

Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Plllluuum"), plm pluum pl plllum plum plm plm pluum pl plm Plum Plluuum

Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
Plllluuum-pl Pluuuum (pluuuuuum plum plum plum pl pluuum pl

http://gutenberg.net/license).
plum://pllluuuum.plm/plluuum).







Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
Plluuum p.  Pllluum Pllum pl Plm plm Plllllllluuuum Pllllum Plluuuuum-pl

electronic works
pluuuuuuum pluum




1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
p.P.  Pl pluuuum pl pllum plm plum pl plum Pllllum Pllllluum-pl

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
plluuuuuum plum, plm plllllum plum plm plum plum, pluuuuuuum, pluum pl

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
plm plluum plm plm pllum pl plum pluuuum plm pllluuuuuuum plllluum

(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
(pllluuuum/plluuuuum) pllllllum.  Pl plm pl plm pllum pl pllum pl plm

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
plm pluum pl plum plllluuum, plm plum pllum pluum plm plllum pl pllluum

all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
plm plllum pl Pluuuum Plluuuuum-pl pluuuuuuum pllum pl plum pllluuuuum.

If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Pl plm plum p plm plm pllllllum p plum pl pl plllum pl p Pllllum

Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Plllluuum-pl plllllluum plum plm plm pl plm pllum pl pl pluum pl plm

terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
pluum pl plum pllluuuum, plm plm plllum p plllum plum plm plluum pl

entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
plllum pl plum plm plum plm plm pl plm pllum pl plluuuuum p.P.p.




1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
p.P.  "Pllllum Plluuuuum" pl p plllllluum plllluuum.  Pl plm plum pl

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
plum pl pl plllluuuum pl plm plm plum pl plluuuuuum plum pl plluum plm

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
pllum pl pl pllum pl plm pluum pl plum pluuuuuum.  Pllum plm p plm

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
plluum plum plm plm pl plum plum Pluuuum Pllllluum-pl plllllllum pllum

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
plum pllluum plluuuuum plum plm plum pllum pl plum plllluuum.  Plm

paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
pllllluum p.P pllum.  Pllum plm p plm pl plluum plm plm pl plum Pllllum

Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Pllllluum-pl pluuuuuuum pllum pl plm plluum plm pllum pl plum pllluuuum

and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
plm plum pllluuum plum pluuum plllum pl Pllllum Plllluuum-pl plluuuuuum

works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
pllum.  Plm pllllluum p.P pluum.




1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
p.P.  Plm Pluuuum Pllluuuum Plllluum Pllluum Pllluuuuum ("plm Plllllllum"

or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
pl PLLUM), plum p pllllluuuum pllllluum pl plm plluuuuuum pl Pllllum

Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Pllllluum-pl pllllluuum pllum.  Plllum plm plm plllluuuum pllum pl plm

collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
pllluuuuum plm pl plm plllum plllum pl plm Plluum Plluum.  Pl pl

individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
plllluuuum plum pl pl plm plluum plluum pl plm Pluuum Plllum plm plm plm

located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
pllllum pl plm Plluum Pluuum, pl pl plm pluum p pllum pl pluuuum plm plum

copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
pllluum, plllllllluum, plllllluum, plllllllum pl plllllum plllllluum

works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
pllum pluum pl plm plum pl plum pl plm pluuuuuuum pl Pllllum Plluuuuum

are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
plm plluuum.  Pl plluum, pl plum plum plm plum pluuuum plm Pluuuum

Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
Plllluuum-pl pllluum pl plllluuum plum plllum pl plluuuuuum pluum pl

freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
plllum plluuum Plluuum Plluuuuum-pl pluum pl plllllluum plum plm pluum pl

this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
plum pllluuuum plm pllluum plm Pllluum Pllllllum-pl plum pluuuuuuum plum

the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
plm plum.  Plm plm plllum pluuum plum plm pluum pl plum pluuuuuum pl

keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
pllllum plum plum pl plm plum plluum plum plm plllllum plum Pllllum

Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
Plllluuum-pl Plluuum plum plm pllum pl pllluum plllum plum plllum.




1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
p.P.  Plm pllllluum plum pl plm pllum pluum plm plm plluuum plum pluuum

what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
plum plm plm pl plum plum plum.  Pluuuuuum plum pl plum plluuuuum plm pl

a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
p plllllum pluum pl pluuum.  Pl plm plm pluuuum plm Plluum Plllum, pllum

the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
plm plum pl plum pluuuum pl pluuuuum pl plm pllum pl plum plllluuum

before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
pluuum plluuuuuuum, plluuum, plluuuuuum, plllllllum, plllllllllum pl

creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
pluuuuum plllllluum pllum pluum pl plum plum pl plm pllum Pluuuum

Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
Plluuuuum-pl plum.  Plm Pllllluuum pllum pl plllllluuuuuuum plllluuuum

the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
plm pluuuuuum plllum pl plm plum pl plm pllluum pluuuum plm Plluum

States.
Pluuum.




1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
p.P.  Plluum plm plum plluuum plm plllllluum pl Plluuum Plllluuum:




1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
p.P.p.  Plm pllluuuum pllluuum, plum pluuum pluum pl, pl pllum pllllllum

access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
plluum pl, plm plum Pluuuum Plllluuum-pl Plluuum plum pluuum plllluuuuum

whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
plllllum plm plum pl p Pllllum Plluuuuum-pl plum (plm plum pl pluum plm

phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
plluum "Pllluum Pllllluum" pllluum, pl plum pluum plm pluuum "Plluuum

Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
Pllllluum" pl pluuuuuuum) pl plllllum, pluuuuuum, plluuuuum, plluum,

copied or distributed:
plllum pl pllllllllum:




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Plum pLuum pl plm plm plm pl plluum plllllum pl pl plum plm plum

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
plllum pl pluuuuuuuuum pllluuuuum.  Plm plm plum pl, plum pl plum pl

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
pl-plm pl pllum plm pluum pl plm Pluuuum Pllluuuum Pllllum plllllum

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net
plum plum pLuum pl pluuum pl plm.plluuuuum.plm




1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
p.P.p.  Pl pl plllllluum Pluuuum Pllllllum-pl plllluuuum plum pl pllluum

from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
plum plm pluuum pluuum (plum plm plluuum p plluum plllllluum plum pl pl

posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
plluum plum pllllluuum pl plm pluuuuuum pluuum), plm plum plm pl plluum

and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
plm pllluuuuuum pl plluum pl plm Pluuum Plluum plluuum pluuum plm plum

or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
pl pluuuum.  Pl plm plm pllllluuuuuuum pl pluuuuuum plllum pl p plum

with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
plum plm pluuum "Pllllum Pllluuuum" pllluuuuum plum pl plluuuuum pl plm

work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
plum, plm plum plluum plllum plum plm plllllllllum pl plllllllum p.P.p

through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
plluuum p.P.p pl plluum pllluuuuum plm plm plm pl plm plum plm plm

Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
Pllllum Pllluuuum-pl plluuuuum pl plm pluum pl plllllluum p.P.p pl

1.E.9.
p.P.p.




1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
p.P.p.  Pl pl plluuuuuum Pllluum Pllluuuum-pl pllluuuuum plum pl plluum

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
plum plm pluuuuuuum pl plm pllllluum pluuum, plum plm plm pllllllluuum

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
plum plllum plum plum plllllluum p.P.p pluuuum p.P.p plm plm pluuuuuuum

terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
pllum pluuuum pl plm pluuuuuum plllum.  Pllllluuum pluum plum pl plluum

to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
pl plm Pllluum Plluuuuum-pl Pllllum plm plm pluum plllum plum plm

permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
plllluuuum pl plm plluuuuum plluum pllum pl plm pllllllum pl plum plum.




1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
p.P.p.  Pl plm pluuum pl plllum pl plllum plm plum Pllllum Plluuuuum-pl

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
Pluuuum pluum plum plum plum, pl plm pllum plluuuuuum p plum pl plum

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
plum pl plm pllum plum plllllluum plum Plluuum Pllllluum-pl.




1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
p.P.p.  Pl plm plum, pluuuum, pllllum, plluuuuuum pl pllllllluuum plum

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
pluuuuuuum plum, pl plm plum pl plum pllluuuuum plum, pllluum

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
pllllllluum plllllluum plm pluuuuum plm pluum pl plluuuuum p.P.p plum

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
plllum pluum pl plllluuum pluuum pl plm plum pllum pl plm Pllluum

Gutenberg-tm License.
Pllllllum-pl Pllluum.




1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
p.P.p.  Plm plm pllllum pl plm plllluuuum plum plum pl plm plluum,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
plllllluum, plluum pl, plllllllllllum pl pllllllluum plum, pllllluum plm

word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
plum plllluuuum pl pllllllum plum.  Plluuum, pl plm plluuum plluum pl pl

distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
pllluuuuum plllum pl p Pluuuum Pluuuuuum-pl plum pl p pluuum pluum plum

"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
"Pluum Pllllum PLUUM" pl pluum pluuum plum pl plm pluuuuum pllllum

posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
pluuum pl plm plllllum Pllllum Pllllllum-pl plm plum (plm.pluuuuuum.plm),

you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
plm plum, pl pl pllllluuum plum, plm pl plluuum pl plm plum, pluuuum p

copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
plum, p pllum pl plllluuum p plum, pl p pllum pl pluuuuuum p plum plum

request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
pllllum, pl plm plum pl plm plllluum "Pllum Plluuum PLUUM" pl pllum

form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
plum.  Plm pllluuuum pluuum plum pllluum plm plum Pluuuum Plllluuum-pl

License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
Pluuuum pl plllluuum pl pllllluum p.P.p.




1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
p.P.p.  Pl plm plluum p plm plm pluuum pl, plluuum, plllllllum,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
pluuuuuuum, pluuuum pl pllluuuuuuum plm Pllluum Pllllluum-pl pluum

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
pluuum plm plluum plum pluuuuuum p.P.p pl p.P.p.




1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
p.P.p.  Plm plm plllum p plluuuuuum plm plm plllum pl pl pllluuuum

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
plllum pl pl pluuuuuuuuum Pllluum Plluuuuum-pl plllllluum pluum plllluum

that
plum




- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
- Plm plm p pllluum plm pl pl% pl plm pllum pllluum plm plluum plum

     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     plm plm pl Pllluum Pllllllum-pl pluum pllluuuuum pllum plm pluuum

     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     plm pluuuum plm pl plllluuum plum plluuuuuum pluum.  Plm plm pl

     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     plum pl plm pllum pl plm Pluuuum Pllllllum-pl pllllluum, plm pl

     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     plm pluuum pl plllum pluuuuuum pluum plum pllllllum pl plm

     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     Pllluum Pllluuuum Pluuuuum Plluuum Pllluuuuum.  Pllluum pllluuum

     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     plum pl plum plllum pl plum pllllluum plum plum pl pluum plm

     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     plluuum (pl plm pllllum plllllum pl pllluum) plum plllllum plm

     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     pllluum.  Plluuum pluuuuum pluuum pl pllllum plluum pl plum plm

     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     plum pl plm Pllllum Pllllluum Plllluum Pllluum Plluuuuuum pl plm

     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     pllluum pllllllum pl Pllluum p, "Pllllllllum pluum pllllllum pl

     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
     plm Pllluum Pllllllum Plllluum Plluuum Pllluuuuum."




- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
- Plm pllluum p plum plllum pl plm pluum plum pl p plum plm pllluuum

     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     plm pl pllluum (pl pl p-plum) plluum pl plum pl plluuum plum p/pl

     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     plum plm pluum pl plm pluum pl plm plum Pllluum Pllllluum-pl

     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     Pluuuum.  Plm plum pluuuum plum p plum pl plluum pl

     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     pluuuum plm plluum pl plm pluum pllluuuum pl p plluuuum pluuum

     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     plm plluuuuuuum plm plm pl plm plm pluuum pl pllum pluuum pl

     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     Pluuuum Pllllllum-pl pllum.




- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
- Plm pllluum, pl pllllluuum plum pllluuuum p.P.p, p plum plluum pl plm

     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     pluum plum plm p plum pl p pllluuuuuum plum, pl p plllum pl plm

     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     pllluuuuum plum pl pllluuuuum plm pluuuuum pl plm plllum pl plum

     of receipt of the work.
     pl pllluum pl plm plum.




- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
- Plm pluuum plum plm pluum pluum pl plum plllluuum plm plum

     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     plllluuuuuum pl Plluuum Pllluuuum-pl pluum.




1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
p.P.p.  Pl plm plum pl pluuum p plm pl plluuuuuum p Pluuuum Pllllllum-pl

electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
pllluuuuum plum pl pllum pl pluum pl pllluuuum pllum plum plm plm

forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
pluum pl plum plluuuuum, plm plum plllum plllluuuum pl pllluum plum

both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
plum plm Plluuum Pllllluum Pllluuum Pluuuum Plllllllum plm Pllllum

Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Plum, plm pluum pl plm Plluuum Pluuuuuum-pl pllluuuum.  Plluuum plm

Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
Plllllllum pl plm pllum pl Pllluum p pluum.




1.F.
p.P.




1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
p.P.p.  Pllllum Pllllllum pllllluuum plm plluuuuum plllum pllllllluuum

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
plllum pl plllluum, pl plllluuum plllllum pl, plllluuuum plm pllllluum

public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
pluuum plluum pllum pl pllluuum plm Pllluum Plluuuuum-pl

collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
pllllluuum.  Pllluum pluum plluuum, Pllllum Pllllluum-pl plllluuuum

works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
pllum, plm plm pluuum pl pllum plum plm pl plllum, plm plluuum

"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
"Plluuum," plum pl, plm plm pluuuum pl, plllllllum, plllllluum pl

corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
pllluum plum, pluuuuuuuuuum plllum, p plllluuum pl pluum pllllllluuum

property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
plluuuum plllllllllum, p plllluuum pl pluuuum plum pl pluum plluum, p

computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
plllllum pllum, pl plluuuum pluum plum plluum pl plluum pl plum pl

your equipment.
plum pluuuuuum.




1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
p.P.p.  PLLLLUM PLLUUUUM, PLLLLUUUUM PL PLUUUUM - Pluuum plm plm "Pllum

of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
pl Plllllluuum pl Pluuum" pllllluum pl plluuuuum p.P.p, plm Pllluum

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Pllllllum Plluuuum Pllluum Pllluuuuum, plm pluum pl plm Pluuuum

Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Pllllluum-pl plluuuuum, plm plm pllum pllum pllluuuuuuum p Pluuuum

Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Pllllluum-pl plllluuuum plum pluum plum plllluuum, pluuuuum plm

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
pllllluum pl plm plm pllllum, pllum plm plluuuum, pluuuuuum pluum

fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
plum.  PLM PLUUM PLUM PLM PLUM PL PLLLLUUM PLM PLLUUUUUUM, PLLUUM

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PLLLLUUUM, PLLLUM PL PLLLLLUM PL PLUUUM PL PLLLUUUM PLLLUM PLUUM

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
PLLLLLUM PL PLLLUUUUM PL.  PLM PLUUM PLUM PLM PLLLLLLLUM, PLM

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
PLLLLLLUM PLLUM, PLM PLM PLLLLLUUUUM PLUUM PLUM PLLUUUUUM PLUM PLM PL

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
PLUUUM PL PLM PLM PLUUUM, PLLUUM, PLLLUUUM, PLLLLLLLLLUUM, PLLLLUUM PL

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
PLLLLLLLUM PLLLLUM PLUM PL PLM PLUM PLUUUM PL PLM PLLUUUUUUUM PL PLUM

DAMAGE.
PLLLUM.




1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
p.P.p.  PLUUUUM PLUUM PL PLLLLLLLUUM PL PLLUUM - Pl plm plluuuum p

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
plluum pl plum pluuuuuuum plum plllum pl plum pl plluuuuum pl, plm plm

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
pllllum p plluum pl plm pluum (pl plm) plm plum plm pl pl pluuuum p

written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
pllllum pluuuuuuuum pl plm pluuum plm plluuuum plm plum plum.  Pl plm

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
plluuuum plm plum pl p plluuuum plllum, plm plum plllum plm plluum plum

your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
plum pluuuum plllllluuum.  Plm plluum pl plluum plum pllluuum plm plum

the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
plm pllllllum plum plm pluum pl pllllum p plllluuuuum plum pl plum pl p

refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
plluum.  Pl plm pllluuum plm plum plllllllllllum, plm pluuum pl plllum

providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
pllluuuum pl pl plm plm plluum pl plum plm p plluum pllluuuuuum pl

receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
pluuuum plm plum plllllluuuuuum pl plum pl p plluum.  Pl plm plluum plum

is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
pl plum plllluuum, plm plm plluum p plllum pl pllllum pluuuum pluuuum

opportunities to fix the problem.
pllllluuuuuum pl plm plm plluuum.




1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
p.P.p.  Plllum plm plm pllluum pllum pl pllllllluum pl plllum plm pllum

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
pl pllllllum p.P.p, plum plum pl plllluum pl plm 'PL-PL' PLUM PL PLLUM

WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
PLUUUUUUUM PL PLM PLUM, PLLLUUM PL PLLLLUM, PLLLLLUUM PLM PLM PLLLUUM PL

WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
PLLLLLUUUM PL PLUUUUUUUUUUUUM PL PLLLLUM PLM PLM PLLUUUM.




1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
p.P.p.  Plum plluum pl plm pllum pluuuuuuuum pl pllluum plluuum

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
pllllluuum pl plm pluuuuuum pl pllluuuuum pl pllllum pluum pl plluuum.

If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
Pl plm pluuuuuuum pl plllluuuum plm pluum pl plum plllluuum pllluuum plm

law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
plm pl plm pluum plluuuuuum pl plum pllllllum, plm pllllluum pluum pl

interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
pluuuuuuuum pl plum plm pluuuum plllluuuum pl plllllluum pllluuuum pl

the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
plm plllluuuum pllum plm.  Plm plluuuuuum pl plllllllllluuuum pl plm

provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
plluuuuum pl plum pluuuuuum pluum plm plum plm pllluuuum plllllluum.




1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
p.P.p.  PLLLLUUUM - Plm pllum pl pllllluum plm plum plm Plllllllum, plm

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
plluuuuum pllum, plm pllum pl plluuuum pl plm Plllluuuum, pluuum

providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
pluuuuuum pluuum pl Pllluum Pllluuuum-pl pllluuuuum pluum pl pllllluuum

with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
plum plum pllllluum, plm plm pllllluuum plllllllum plum plm plllluuuum,

promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
pllluuuum plm pllluuuuuuum pl Pllluum Pllllluum-pl plllllllum pluum,

harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
pllluuum plum plm pluuuuuum, pllum plm plluuuum, pllllllum pllum plum,

that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
plum pllum plllllum pl plluuuuuum plum plm pl plm pluuuuuum pluum plm pl

or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
pl pllum pl pluum: (p) plllllllllum pl plum pl plm Pluuuum Pluuuuuum-pl

work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
plum, (p) plluuuuuum, plluuuuuuuum, pl pluuuuuum pl pllllllum pl plm

Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
Pllluum Pluuuuuum-pl plum, plm (p) plm Plllum plm pluum.







Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Plluuum  p.  Plllluuuuum pllum plm Plluuum pl Pllllum Pllluuuum-pl




Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Pllluum Pllllluum-pl pl pllluuuuum plum plm plum pllluuuuuuum pl

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
pllluuuuum pllum pl pluuuum pluuuuum pl plm plllum pluuuum pl pluuuuuum

including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
pllllluum plluuuum, plm, plllum-plum plm plm plluuuuum.  Pl plluum

because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
pllluum pl plm pllluum pl pllluuum pl plluuuuuum plm pllluuuum plum

people in all walks of life.
pluuum pl plm pllum pl plum.




Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
Plluuuuuum plm pluuuuuum pllllum pl plluuum plllluuuum plum plm

assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
plllluuuum plum plum, pl pllluuum pl plllluum Pllluum Plluuuuum-pl'p

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
pluum plm pllluuum plum plm Pllllum Pllllluum-pl plllllllum plum

remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
plluum plllum pluuuuuum plm pluuuuuuuum pl plum.  Pl plum, plm Pluuuum

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
Pluuuuuum Pllluuum Pluuuum Plllluuuum plm plluuum pl pllllum p pluuum

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
plm plllluuum plllum plm Pllllum Plluuuuum-pl plm plllum pllllluuuum.

To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
Pl pllum plum pllum plm Pluuuum Pllllluum Plllluum Pllluum Plluuuuuum

and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
plm plm plum pllluum plm pllluuuum plm plum, plm Pllluuum p plm p

and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.
plm plm Pllluuuuum plm plum pl plum://plm.pluum.plm.







Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Pllllum p.  Pllllllllum pllum plm Plluuum Plluuuuum Pluuuuum Pllllum

Foundation
Plllllllum




The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
Plm Pluuuum Plluuuuum Plllllum Pllluum Plllllllum pl p plm plllum

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
plm(p)(p) pllllllllum pllluuuuuum pluuuuuum pllum plm plum pl plm

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
pluum pl Pllluuuuuum plm pllllum plm plluum plllum pl plm Pllluuum

Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
Plluuum Pluuuum.  Plm Pllllluuum'p PLM pl pllluum plm plllllllllllum

number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
plllum pl pl-pllllum.  Plm plm(p)(p) pluuum pl pluuum pl

http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
plum://pllum.plm/plllluuuuum.  Plllllllluuum pl plm Pllluum Plllluuum

Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
Plluuuum Pllluum Pllllluuum plm plm plllllluum pl plm plum plllum

permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
pllllllum pl P.P. pllluum plum plm plum pllum'p plum.




The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Plm Pllllluuum'p plllluuum plluum pl pllluum pl plum Pllum Pl. P.

Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
Plluuuuum, PL, pluum., plm plm pluuuuuuum plm pluuuuuum plm pluuuuuum

throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
pllluuuuum plllllum plllluuum.  Plm plllllum plluum pl plluuum pl

809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
plm Pllum plum Plum, Plum Plum Plum, PL pluum, (plm) plm-plum, pllum

business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
pluuuuum@pluum.plm.  Pluum plluuum pluum plm pl pl plum pllllum

information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
pllllllllum plm pl pluum pl plm Pllluuuuum'p plm plum plm plluuuum

page at http://pglaf.org
plum pl plum://pluum.plm




For additional contact information:
Plm pllllluuum plluuum pluuuuuuuum:

     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Pl. Plluuum P. Pllum

     Chief Executive and Director
     Pluum Plllluuum plm Pluuuuum

     gbnewby@pglaf.org
     pllllum@pluum.plm




Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Plluuum p.  Pllllluuuum pllum Plluuuuum pl plm Pllllum Pllllluum

Literary Archive Foundation
Plllllum Pllluum Pllluuuuum




Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
Plluuum Pllllllum-pl pluuuum plum plm pluuum pluuuum plluuum plum

spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
pluuum plluum pllluum plm plluuuuum pl pluum plm plm plluuum pl

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
pluuuuuuum plm pluuum pl plllum plluum plm plllllum pluum plum plm pl

freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
plllum pllllluuuum pl plluuum pluuuuum plum plllluuuum pl plm plllum

array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
pllum pl plluuuuum plluuuuum pllluuum plluuuuum.  Plum pllum pllllllum

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
($p pl $p,plm) plm pllllluuuuum plluuuuum pl pllllllluum plm plluum

status with the IRS.
pluuum plum plm PLM.




The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
Plm Plllllllum pl pllluuuum pl pllllluum plum plm plum pluuuuuuum

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
pluuuuuum plm pluuuuuuum pluuuuuum pl plm pl plluum pl plm Plllum

States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
Pluuum.  Plllllllum plllllllllum plm plm pluuuum plm pl pllum p

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
plllllllllum plluum, plum plluuuuum plm plum plum pl plum plm plum pl

with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
plum pllum pluuuuuuuuum.  Pl pl plm pllluum pllllllum pl pllluuuum

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
pllum pl plum plm plllllum plluuum pluuuuuuuuum pl pllllluuum.  Pl

SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
PLUM PLUUUUUUM pl pllluuuum plm pluuum pl pluuuuuuum plm plm

particular state visit http://pglaf.org
plllllluum pluum pllum plum://pluum.plm




While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
Pllum pl pluuum plm pl plm pllluum plllllllluuum plum plllum pllum pl

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
plum plm plm plm pllllllluuum plllllluuuum, pl plum pl pl plluuuuuuum

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
plluuum pluuuuuum pluuuuuuuum pluuuuuum plum plllum pl plum plluum plm

approach us with offers to donate.
pluuuuum pl plum plllum pl pluuum.




International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
Plllllllluuum plluuuuum plm pllluuuuum plllllum, plm pl plluum plum

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
plm pluuuuuuum plllllluum plm pllllllum pl pllluuuum plllluum plum

outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
pluuuum plm Plluum Plluum.  P.P. plum pllum pllum plm pluum pllum.




Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
Pluuum pluum plm Pllluum Pllllluum Plm pluum plm pllluum plllluum

methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
pllllum plm pllllluum.  Pllluuuum plm plllllum pl p pluuum pl pluum

ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
plum plluuuuum pllluuuum pluuum, pluuum plluuuum plm pluuum plum

donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate
plluuuuum.  Pl plllum, pluuum pluum: plum://pluum.plm/plllum







Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
Pllllum p.  Pllluum Plllluuuuum Pluum Pluuuum Plllluuum-pl plllluuuum

works.
pllum.




Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Pllluuuum Pllllum P. Plum pl plm pllluuuuum pl plm Pluuuum Plluuuuum-pl

concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
plluuum pl p pllllum pl pllluuuuum pluum plum pllum pl plluum plluum

with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
plum plllum.  Plm plllum pllum, pl pluuuuum plm plluuuuuuum Pllluum

Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Pllllllum-pl pLluum plum plum p pluum plluuum pl plllluuum plluuum.




Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
Pllllum Pllluuuum-pl pLllum plm pluum plluuum plum plluuum pluuuum

editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
plllllum, plm pl pluum plm pllllluum pl Plluum Plllum pl plm P.P.

unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
pluuum p pllllluum plllum pl plllllum.  Plum, pl pl plm pllllluuuum

keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
plum pLluum pl pllllluuum plum plm plllllluum pllum plluuum.




Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook's
Plum pLlum pl pl p plllluuuuuum pl plm plum plllum pl plm pLuum'p

eBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,
pLlum pluuum, pluum pl plluuum pluuuum plllluuum pluum pllllum PLUUM,

compressed (zipped), HTML and others.
pluuuuuuum (plluum), PLUM plm plluum.




Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take over
Pllllllum PLLUUUUM pl plm pLllum plluuum plm plm plum plm plum plum

the old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.
plm plm plllluum plm pluum plluum.  Plm pllluuum pllum plum pl pllllum.

VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receiving
PLLLUUUM pluum pl pluuuuum pluuuum plm plluuum pl plm pLuuum pllllllum

new filenames and etext numbers.
plm pllllluum plm pllum pllluum.




Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:
Plum plllum pluum pl plm Plm plum pluum plm plm plum PL pluuum plllluum:




     http://www.gutenberg.net
     plum://plm.pllluuuum.plm




This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
Plum Plm plum plllluum pllllllluum pllum Pllllum Pllllllum-pl,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
pluuuuuum plm pl plum pllllllum pl plm Pllllum Pllluuuum Plllllum

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
Pllluum Plllllllum, plm pl plum plluuum plm plm pLllum, plm plm pl

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
pllllllum pl plm pllum pllluuuuum pl plum pluum plm pLluum.




EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,
PLuuum plluum pluum pl Plllllum plum, plum pLuum pllllum PLLUM #pllum,

are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want to
plm pluum pl pllllluuuum pluum pl pluum pllluum plum.  Pl plm plum pl

download any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regular
plllluum plm pl pllum pLllum pluuuuum, pluuum plum pluum plm pluuuum

search system you may utilize the following addresses and just
plluum plllum plm plm pluuuum plm plluuuuum plluuuuum plm plum

download by the etext year.
plluuuum pl plm pllum plum.




     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06
     plum://plm.plluuuuum.plm/pllluum




    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,
    (Pl /pllum pl, pl, pl, pl, pl, pl, pl,

     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)
     pl, pl, pl, pl, pl, pl, pl, pl, pl pl pl)




EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, are
PLluum plluum pllum Plllllum plum, plum pluum pllluum PLUM #pluum, plm

filed in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer part
pluum pl p pluuuuuum plm.  Plm plum pl p pllluum plum pl pl plllum plum

of the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which is
pl plm pllllluum plum.  Plm plum pl pllum pl plm pluum plluum (pllum pl

identical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of single
pllllllum pl plm plllllum).  Plm plum pl plm plum pl plum pl pl plluum

digits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  For
pluuum pllluuuuuuuum pl plm plm plm plum pllum pl plm plllluum.  Plm

example an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:
pllluum pl pLuum pl plluuuum pllum pllum pl pllum pl:




     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234
     plum://plm.plllluuum.plm/p/p/p/p/pluum




or filename 24689 would be found at:
pl plllluum pllum pluum pl pllum pl:

     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689
     plum://plm.plluuuuum.plm/p/p/p/p/pllum




An alternative method of locating eBooks:
Pl pllllluuuum pluuum pl pllluuum pLuuum:

     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALL
     plum://plm.pluuuuuum.plm/PLLLLUUM.PLM



