
The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Book of Pears and Plums, by Edward Bartrum
Plm Pllluum Plluuuuum PLlum pl Plm Plum pl Pllum plm Pluum, pl Pluuum Pllllum




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Plum pLlum pl plm plm plm pl pluuum plllllum pl pl plum plm plum

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
plllum pl plllluuuuuum pluuuuuuum.  Plm plm plum pl, plum pl plum pl

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
pl-plm pl pllum plm pllum pl plm Pllllum Pllllllum Pllluum pllluuum

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
plum plum pLuum pl pluuum pl plm.plllluuum.plm







Title: The Book of Pears and Plums
Pluum: Plm Plum pl Pluum plm Pluum




Author: Edward Bartrum
Pluuum: Pluuum Pluuuum




Release Date: February 11, 2010 [EBook #31251]
Plluuum Plum: Plluuuum pl, plum [PLuum #pllum]




Language: English
Pluuuuum: Plluuum




Character set encoding: UTF-8
Plluuuuum plm pllluuum: PLM-p




*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOOK OF PEARS AND PLUMS ***
*** PLLUM PL PLUM PLUUUUM PLLLLUUUM PLLUM PLM PLUM PL PLUUM PLM PLLUM ***













Produced by Steven Giacomelli, Barbara Kosker and the
Pluuuuum pl Plllum Pluuuuuuum, Pllluum Pluuum plm plm

Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
Plllum Pllllllllum Plllluuuuuum Plum pl plum://plm.plum.plm

(This file was produced from images produced by Core
(Plum plum plm pllluuum plum plllum plllluum pl Plum

Historical Literature in Agriculture (CHLA), Cornell
Pllluuuuum Pluuuuuuum pl Pluuuuuuuum (PLUM), Pllllum

University)
Plllllluum)




























    +-------------------------------------------------+
    +-------------------------------------------------+

    |             Transcriber's Note                  |
    |             Pllllllluum'p Plum                  |

    |                                                 |
    |                                                 |

    | A quincunx is a geometric pattern consisting    |
    | P pllluuum pl p plluuuuum pluuuum plllluuuum    |

    | of five points, four of them forming a square   |
    | pl plum plllum, plum pl plum plluuum p plluum   |

    | or rectangle and a fifth at its center. It      |
    | pl pllllllum plm p pluum pl plm plluum. Pl      |

    | forms the arrangement of five units in the      |
    | pllum plm plllluuuuum pl plum pluum pl plm      |

    | pattern corresponding to the five-spot on dice, |
    | pllluum pllllllllllum pl plm plum-plum pl plum, |

    | playing cards, or dominoes.                     |
    | plluuum pluum, pl pluuuuum.                     |

    +-------------------------------------------------+
    +-------------------------------------------------+













HANDBOOKS OF PRACTICAL GARDENING--XI
PLLLLUUUM PL PLLLLLLUM PLLLLLLUM--PL

EDITED BY HARRY ROBERTS
PLLUUM PL PLUUM PLUUUUM













THE BOOK OF PEARS AND PLUMS
PLM PLUM PL PLLUM PLM PLLUM













[Illustration: PEAR BLOSSOM]
[Pllllllluuum: PLUM PLLLLUM]













  THE BOOK OF PEARS AND PLUMS
  PLM PLUM PL PLUUM PLM PLUUM













  BY THE
  PL PLM

  REV. E. BARTRUM, D.D., F.R.H.S.
  PLM. P. PLLUUUM, P.P., P.P.P.P.




  RECTOR OF WAKES COLNE, ESSEX
  PLLLUM PL PLUUM PLUUM, PLLUM

  EDITOR OF "HELPFUL HINTS FOR HARD TIMES," ETC.
  PLUUUM PL "PLUUUUM PLUUM PLM PLUM PLLUM," PLM.













  WITH CHAPTERS ON CHERRIES AND MULBERRIES
  PLUM PLUUUUUM PL PLLLLUUM PLM PLLLLLLLUM













  JOHN LANE: THE BODLEY HEAD
  PLUM PLUM: PLM PLLLUM PLUM

  LONDON AND NEW YORK. MCMIII
  PLUUUM PLM PLM PLUM. PLLUUM













_Printed by Turnbull & Spears, Edinburgh_
pLlluuum pl Plluuuum & Pluuum, Plllluuuum













INTRODUCTION
PLLLLLLUUUUM







I have grown pears, plums, cherries and mulberries for many years, and
P plum pluum pluum, pllum, plluuuum plm pllllluuum plm plum pluum, plm

have written many articles about the first two fruits; yet, in preparing
plum pllluum plum plluuuum pluum plm pluum plm plluum; plm, pl plllluuum

this work, I found that I had still much to learn, and I wish
plum plum, P pllum plum P plm pluum plum pl pllum, plm P plum

particularly to express my obligations to the new edition of Thompson's
plllllluuuum pl pluuuum pl plllllluuum pl plm plm pllllum pl Pllluuum'p

_Gardener's Assistant_, edited in six volumes by Mr Watson, Assistant
pLluuuuum'p Pllluuuuum, plluum pl plm pllluum pl Pl Pluuum, Plluuuuum

Curator of the Royal Gardens, Kew, and brought out by the Gresham
Pluuuum pl plm Pllum Pllllum, Plm, plm pllllum plm pl plm Pllllum

Publishing Company. I have also derived valuable aid from the volumes of
Plllllluum Plluuum. P plum plum pluuuum plluuuum plm plum plm pllllum pl

the Royal Horticultural Society. The chapter on "cherries" is based
plm Pluum Pllllllllllum Plluuum. Plm pllluum pl "plluuuum" pl pluum

chiefly on the booklet contributed by Mr G. Bunyard to my _Helpful Hints
pllluum pl plm pllllum pllllluuuum pl Pl P. Pluuuum pl pl pLllluum Pllum

for Hard Times_ published by the S.P.C.K.
plm Plum Plluum plllluuum pl plm P.P.P.P.




  E. B.
  P. P.

  WAKES COLNE RECTORY, ESSEX,
  PLLUM PLUUM PLUUUUM, PLUUM,

  _July 1902_.
  pLlum pluum.













CONTENTS
PLLLLLUM







                                                         PAGE
                                                         PLUM




  INTRODUCTION                                            vii
  PLLLLLLLLLUM                                            plm




      PEARS--
      PLUUM--




  HISTORY OF THE PEAR                                       1
  PLLUUUM PL PLM PLUM                                       p




  SITUATION AND SOIL                                        3
  PLLUUUUUM PLM PLUM                                        p




  PROTECTION                                                5
  PLLLLLLUUM                                                p




  PLANTING                                                  5
  PLLLLLUM                                                  p




  STAKING AND WIRING                                        7
  PLLLLUM PLM PLUUUM                                        p




  STOCKS FOR PEARS                                          8
  PLLLUM PLM PLLUM                                          p




  ORCHARD TREES                                            10
  PLLLLUM PLLUM                                            pl




  PYRAMIDS                                                 12
  PLLUUUUM                                                 pl




  COLUMNAR TREES                                           14
  PLLLUUUM PLLUM                                           pl




  ESPALIERS                                                15
  PLLUUUUUM                                                pl




  HORIZONTALS ON WALLS                                     15
  PLLLUUUUUUM PL PLUUM                                     pl




  FAN-SHAPED TREES                                         16
  PLM-PLLUUM PLLUM                                         pl




  BUSHES                                                   16
  PLUUUM                                                   pl




  CORDONS                                                  20
  PLLLUUM                                                  pl




  ARCHES                                                   21
  PLLLUM                                                   pl




  PRICES OF TREES                                          22
  PLLLUM PL PLLUM                                          pl




  GARDEN ORCHARDS                                          22
  PLUUUM PLLLLUUM                                          pl




  MANURES                                                  23
  PLLLLUM                                                  pl




  PEARS FOR A PRIVATE GARDEN                               24
  PLUUM PLM P PLLLLUM PLUUUM                               pl




  EXHIBITION PEARS                                         24
  PLLLLUUUUM PLLUM                                         pl




  COOKING PEARS FOR EXHIBITION                             26
  PLLLLUM PLLUM PLM PLUUUUUUUM                             pl




  PEARS FOR APPEARANCE                                     27
  PLLUM PLM PLLLLLLUUM                                     pl




  PEARS FOR QUALITY                                        27
  PLLUM PLM PLUUUUM                                        pl




  COOKING PEARS                                            28
  PLUUUUM PLLUM                                            pl




  EARLY PEARS                                              28
  PLUUM PLLUM                                              pl




  LATE PEARS                                               29
  PLUM PLUUM                                               pl




  PEARS FOR COTTAGERS AND SMALL FARMERS                    29
  PLUUM PLM PLLUUUUUM PLM PLLUM PLLLLUM                    pl




  SYNONYMS                                                 30
  PLLUUUUM                                                 pl




  PEARS FOR PERRY                                          32
  PLUUM PLM PLUUM                                          pl




  GATHERING AND STORING                                    32
  PLLLLUUUM PLM PLLLUUM                                    pl




  PROTECTION OF FRUIT                                      33
  PLUUUUUUUM PL PLUUM                                      pl




  WINTER AND SPRING WASHES                                 34
  PLLUUM PLM PLLLUM PLLUUM                                 pl




  INSECT ENEMIES                                           37
  PLLLUM PLUUUUM                                           pl




  THINNING FRUIT                                           43
  PLLLUUUM PLLUM                                           pl




  SUMMER, WINTER, BRANCH AND ROOT PRUNING; LIFTING         43
  PLUUUM, PLUUUM, PLLUUM PLM PLUM PLLLLUM; PLLUUUM         pl




  MARKETING AND PACKING                                    44
  PLLLLLUUM PLM PLLUUUM                                    pl




  PEARS IN AN UNHEATED ORCHARD HOUSE                       46
  PLUUM PL PL PLLLLUUM PLLLLUM PLLUM                       pl




  OLD STANDARDS                                            51
  PLM PLLLLLUUM                                            pl




  IRRIGATION                                               51
  PLLLLLLLUM                                               pl




  LABELS                                                   51
  PLLLUM                                                   pl




  AMERICAN PEARS                                           51
  PLLLUUUM PLLUM                                           pl




  NOTES ON VARIETIES                                       52
  PLUUM PL PLLLLUUUM                                       pl




  RECEIPTS                                                 54
  PLLLLUUM                                                 pl







      PLUMS--
      PLUUM--




  WHAT IS THE FINEST FRUIT?                                58
  PLUM PL PLM PLLUUM PLLUM?                                pl




  ORIGIN OF THE PLUM                                       58
  PLUUUM PL PLM PLUM                                       pl




  SOIL AND SITUATION                                       58
  PLUM PLM PLLLUUUUM                                       pl




  PROPAGATION AND STOCKS                                   61
  PLLUUUUUUUM PLM PLLUUM                                   pl




  PLANTING                                                 62
  PLLLUUUM                                                 pl




  WHAT IS YOUR OBJECT?                                     62
  PLUM PL PLUM PLUUUM?                                     pl




  PLUMS FOR A PRIVATE GARDEN                               63
  PLLUM PLM P PLUUUUM PLLLUM                               pl




  PRUNING AND TRAINING                                     66
  PLLLUUM PLM PLLLLLUM                                     pl




  MANURES                                                  68
  PLUUUUM                                                  pl




  THINNING                                                 69
  PLUUUUUM                                                 pl




  GAGES                                                    69
  PLLUM                                                    pl




  MARKET PLUMS                                             70
  PLLLUM PLUUM                                             pl




  GATHERING, PACKING, MARKETING                            72
  PLLLLLUUM, PLLLUUM, PLLLLLLUM                            pl




  STORING AND KEEPING                                      74
  PLLLLUM PLM PLLLUUM                                      pl




  INSECT ENEMIES                                           75
  PLLLUM PLUUUUM                                           pl




  ORCHARD HOUSE                                            77
  PLLLUUM PLUUM                                            pl




  DAMSONS                                                  78
  PLLLUUM                                                  pl




  BULLACES                                                 78
  PLLLUUUM                                                 pl




  IMPORTANT POINTS                                         78
  PLLUUUUUM PLLUUM                                         pl




  DRYING BY EVAPORATION                                    78
  PLUUUM PL PLLLLLLLUUM                                    pl




  BOTTLING                                                 79
  PLLLLLUM                                                 pl




  PLUM JELLY                                               82
  PLUM PLLUM                                               pl







      CHERRIES--
      PLLUUUUM--




  "KEEPING" FRUIT, SUITABLE SOIL, ASPECT, SORTS
  "PLLLUUM" PLLUM, PLLLLLUM PLUM, PLUUUM, PLLUM

    RECOMMENDED BY R.H.S. AND MR BUNYARD FOR EATING,
    PLLUUUUUUUM PL P.P.P. PLM PL PLLUUUM PLM PLLUUM,

    COOKING AND MARKET, PROTECTION, PRUNING, TRAINING,
    PLUUUUM PLM PLLLUM, PLLUUUUUUM, PLLLUUM, PLLLLUUM,

    CHERRIES ON WALLS, INSECT ATTACKS, DISTANCES,
    PLLLLUUM PL PLLUM, PLLUUM PLLLLUM, PLLLLUUUM,

    MANURES, MARKETING, DERIVATION OF THE WORD          83-88
    PLLLUUM, PLLLUUUUM, PLLLLLLLUM PL PLM PLUM          pl-pl







      THE MULBERRY
      PLM PLLLLUUM




  ORIGIN OF THE WORD, SOIL, SITUATION, ASPECT, SHAPE,
  PLLLUM PL PLM PLUM, PLUM, PLLUUUUUM, PLLLUM, PLLUM,

    CULTURE, PRUNING, TREES IN POTS, USE OF FRUIT       89-91
    PLLUUUM, PLLLUUM, PLUUM PL PLUM, PLM PL PLLUM       pl-pl







      APPENDIX
      PLUUUUUM




  THE PROPAGATION OF THE PEAR                              92
  PLM PLLLLUUUUUM PL PLM PLUM                              pl













ILLUSTRATIONS
PLLLLLLLLUUUM







                                                         PAGE
                                                         PLUM




  PEAR BLOSSOM
  PLUM PLLUUUM

      (from a drawing by Ethel Roskruge)       _Frontispiece_
      (plum p plluuum pl Pluum Plluuuum)       pLllllllllllum




  BERGAMOTTE ESPEREN ON WALL                               17
  PLLLLLLUUM PLLUUUM PL PLUM                               pl




  PEAR--MARÉCHAL DE LA COUR                                25
  PLUM--PLLLLUUM PL PL PLUM                                pl




  PEAR--MARGUERITE MARILLAT                                27
  PLUM--PLLUUUUUUM PLLUUUUM                                pl




  PEAR--BEURRÉ DIEL                                        31
  PLUM--PLLLUM PLUM                                        pl




  FAN-SHAPED PEAR TREE, ONE YEAR AFTER GRAFTING, SHOWING
  PLM-PLLLUM PLUM PLUM, PLM PLUM PLLUM PLLLLUUM, PLLLLUM

  THE LENGTH OF RESULTING SHOOTS                           41
  PLM PLLLUM PL PLLUUUUUM PLUUUM                           pl




  ESPALIER TRAINED TREE CUT BACK FOR GRAFTING--THE GRAFTS
  PLLLLUUM PLLUUUM PLUM PLM PLUM PLM PLLLUUUM--PLM PLLUUM

  INSERTED AND CLAYED OVER                                 49
  PLLLUUUM PLM PLUUUM PLUM                                 pl




  PLUM--RIVERS' EARLY PROLIFIC                             64
  PLUM--PLLUUM' PLLUM PLUUUUUM                             pl




  PLUM--CZAR                                               64
  PLUM--PLUM                                               pl




  A CHERRY ORCHARD                                         85
  P PLUUUM PLLLUUM                                         pl













THE BOOK OF PEARS AND PLUMS
PLM PLUM PL PLUUM PLM PLLUM




HISTORY OF THE PEAR
PLUUUUM PL PLM PLUM







The Pear is my theme, and a pleasant one it is. Only those who have
Plm Plum pl pl pllum, plm p plluuuum plm pl pl. Plum pllum plm plum

planted trees, pruned them, watched their growth, plucked the fruits,
pllllum pllum, plluum plum, plluuum pllum pluuum, pluuuum plm plllum,

enjoyed them at almost all hours, seen them on the table month after
plluuum plum pl pluuum plm pllum, plum plum pl plm pluum pluum pllum

month as an appetising dish, can fully realise the value of the Pear. A
pluum pl pl plllllluum plum, plm pluum plluuum plm pluum pl plm Plum. P

good Pear-tree is like a faithful friend--treat him properly and he will
plum Plum-plum pl plum p plllllum plllum--pluum plm pllluuum plm pl plum

not fail you. Circumstances, as for instance, a late frost, may render
plm plum plm. Pllllllllluum, pl plm plllllum, p plum pllum, plm pluuum

him incapable of helping you; he may have nothing to offer you; no doubt
plm pllllllum pl plluuum plm; pl plm plum plluuum pl pllum plm; pl pluum

he is sorry, but with patience he will do you a good turn.
pl pl pllum, plm plum pluuuuum pl plum pl plm p plum plum.




_Pyrus_ (or _pirus_), the Latin name for Pear-tree, is the name of a
pLlllum (pl pllllum), plm Pllum plum plm Plum-plum, pl plm plum pl p

genus of plants belonging to the natural order Rosaceæ. _Pyrus
pllum pl pluuum plllluuum pl plm pluuuum pllum Plluuum. pLllum

communis_, the wild pear, from which the numerous cultivated varieties
plluuuuum, plm plum plum, plum pluum plm pllluuum plluuuuuum pllllluum

have sprung, is found over a great part of Europe and Asia, within the
plum pluuum, pl pllum plum p pllum plum pl Pluuum plm Plum, plllum plm

limits of the temperate regions. Its origin is lost in obscurity. The
plllum pl plm pluuuuuum pllluum. Plm plllum pl plum pl pllluuuum. Plm

lake-dwellers in Switzerland are said to have stored the fruits for
plum-pllluuum pl Pllluuuuuum plm plum pl plum plluum plm plllum plm

winter use. It was probably brought by the Greeks, possibly by birds,
plluum plm. Pl plm plllluum pllluum pl plm Pluuum, pllluuum pl pllum,

from Asia, and after a time became a favourite with the Romans as well
plum Plum, plm pluum p plum plllum p pllllllum plum plm Plluum pl plum

as the Greeks. It is mentioned by Horace, Vergil, Juvenal, and others.
pl plm Pluuum. Pl pl pllluuuum pl Plluum, Pluuum, Pllllum, plm pluuum.

Pliny refers to numerous varieties, describing those with special
Pllum plllum pl pllluuum plllluuum, plllllluum pllum plum pllluum

flavours. He tells us that many of the sorts were called after the
pllluuum. Pl pllum pl plum plum pl plm pllum plum pluuum pllum plm

countries from which they came, such as the Syrian, the Alexandrian, the
plluuuuum plum pllum plum plum, plum pl plm Plluum, plm Pllllllluum, plm

Numidian, and the Grecian. Thus he mentions _pira nardina_, a pear with
Plllllum, plm plm Pllluum. Plum pl plluuuum pluum plllluum, p plum plum

the scent of nard; _pira onynchina_, a pear of the colour of the
plm pllum pl plum; pluum plluuuuuum, p plum pl plm plllum pl plm

fingernail, and others. These last are evidently Greek. Forty or fifty
plluuuuuum, plm plluum. Pluum plum plm pluuuuuum Pluum. Pluum pl pluum

sorts are named in Roman writers, and the Pear was appropriately
pluum plm pllum pl Pluum plluuum, plm plm Plum plm plllluuuuuuum

dedicated to Minerva, the goddess of wisdom.
plluuuuum pl Pluuuum, plm pllluum pl pluuum.




The Romans no doubt took their pear-trees northwards into Gaul and
Plm Plllum pl pllum plum pllum plum-pllum pllluuuuum plum Plum plm

Britain. The climate of France is so well adapted to the growth of
Pluuuum. Plm plluuum pl Plluum pl pl plum pllluum pl plm plluum pl

pears, that at one time it was thought all good pears must come from
pluum, plum pl plm plum pl plm plluuum plm plum pllum plum plum plum

France. I well remember many years ago seeing a garden in this country
Plllum. P plum plluuuum plum pllum plm plluum p pluuum pl plum pllluum

full of pear-trees, every one of which had come from France. Happily
plum pl plum-pluum, pluum plm pl pluum plm plum plum Plluum. Pllllum

there is no need now to go out of England for the very best varieties. A
pluum pl pl plum plm pl pl plm pl Plluuum plm plm plum plum pllllluum. P

list published in 1628 by a fruit-grower of Orleans named Le Lectier
plum pluuuuuum pl plum pl p pluum-pluuum pl Pluuuum pluum Pl Pluuuum

(there is a new variety called by his name, and probably after him)
(pllum pl p plm plluuum pluuum pl plm plum, plm plllllum pllum plm)

enumerates 260 varieties. The well known Jargonelle is mentioned in that
plllluuuum plm plllluuum. Plm plum pluum Plllllllum pl pllluuuum pl plum

list. Our Parkinson in 1629 refers to 64 varieties only. Seventy years
plum. Plm Pllllluum pl plum pluuum pl pl pllllllum plum. Plluuum pllum

later we read of 138, and in 1829 of 630 varieties. John Scott, rather
pllum pl plum pl plm, plm pl plum pl plm plllluuum. Plum Pllum, pluuum

famous as a fruit-grower forty years ago, says in his "Orchardist" that
pluuum pl p pluum-plluum pllum pllum plm, plum pl plm "Plllllluum" plum

he has above 1000 sorts worked upon the Quince Stock. He had studied
pl plm pluum plum pllum plllum plum plm Plluum Pllum. Pl plm pllllum

pomology at the "_Jardin Fruitier_," the fruit garden attached to the
pluuuuum pl plm "pLlllum Pllllllum," plm pllum plluum plllllum pl plm

_Jardin des Plantes_ at Paris, and, using his opportunities, learnt all
pLuuuum plm Pllluuum pl Pllum, plm, pllum plm plllllluuuuum, pluuum plm

the secrets of Pear culture, and brought them from France to Merriott,
plm pluuuum pl Plum pllluum, plm pluuuum plum plum Plllum pl Plluuuum,

near Crewkerne, in Somerset. The last edition of Dr Hogg's "Fruit
plum Pllllllum, pl Pllluuum. Plm plum plluuum pl Pl Plum'p "Pluum

Manual" (invaluable to the Pomologist), published in 1884, contains the
Plluum" (pllllluuum pl plm Pllluuuuum), pluuuuuum pl plum, plllluum plm

names of 647 varieties. Not a few of these were marked as worthless by
pllum pl plm pllluuuum. Plm p plm pl pluum plum pluuum pl pllllluum pl

the Committee of the National Pear Conference, held at Chiswick in
plm Pllllluum pl plm Plluuuum Plum Plllllluum, plum pl Pllluuum pl

October 1885. The Royal Horticultural Society in their "Fruits for
Pllluum plum. Plm Pluum Plluuuuuuuuum Plluuum pl pluum "Plllum plm

Cottagers and Small Farmers" (1892), selected eight varieties only for
Pllluuuum plm Pllum Pllluum" (plum), pllluuum pluum pllllluum plum plm

eating, and two more for late keepers; four were recommended for cooking
plluum, plm plm plum plm plum pllluum; plum plum plllllluuum plm pllllum

or stewing. Fresh sorts are constantly being brought into notice, the
pl pllllum. Pluum pluum plm pllllluuum pllum pluuuum plum pluuum, plm

result of cross-fertilisation, and we may, I think, congratulate
pluuum pl pllum-plllllluuuuum, plm pl plm, P pllum, pllluuuuuuum

ourselves that British pears in a favourable season are as good as those
pllllluum plum Pllllum pluum pl p plllllllum pluuum plm pl plum pl pluum

produced in any part of the world. Let any one who doubts this statement
plllluum pl plm plum pl plm pluum. Plm plm plm plm plluum plum pllllluum

attend a Crystal Palace or any other first-rate Fruit Show; his doubts
pluuum p Pllluum Plllum pl plm pluum pluum-plum Pllum Plum; plm plluum

will soon be dispelled.
plum plum pl pllluuuum.







SITUATION AND SOIL
PLLUUUUUM PLM PLUM




These two points are of the greatest importance in successful
Pluum plm pluuum plm pl plm plluuuum pllluuuuum pl pluuuuuuum

cultivation. No amount of skill will enable even a clever gardener to
plllllluuum. Pl plllum pl pluum plum plluum plum p plllum plluuuum pl

grow good fruit in a bad site. Where the land is low and swampy, exposed
plum plum pllum pl p plm plum. Pluum plm plum pl plm plm plllum, pllluum

therefore to frosts more than ground at a higher altitude, the effort
pllllluum pl pluuum plum plum plluum pl p plllum pluuuuum, plm plluum

would be useless. Stagnant water moreover produces canker, and soon
pluum pl pllluum. Pllluuum pllum pluuuuum plluuuum plllum, plm plum

ruins trees. Pears love a deep moist soil, but not water that lies for
pllum pllum. Pllum plum p plum pllum plum, plm plm pllum plum plum plm

any length of time about the roots. On a hillside, where the slope is
plm plllum pl plum pllum plm pllum. Pl p plllluum, pluum plm pllum pl

more than gradual, so that in a dry season the upper part suffers from
plum plum pluuuum, pl plum pl p plm plluum plm pllum plum pluuuum plum

drought, they would be a failure. Trees planted near the bottom and
pluuuum, plum pluum pl p pllllum. Pluum pluuuum plum plm plluum plm

properly protected from winds might succeed, yet they would probably
plluuuum pluuuuuum plum pllum pluum pllluum, plm plum pluum plluuuum

suffer from frost. The slope should not be more than two to three feet
plluum plum pluum. Plm pllum plluum plm pl plum plum plm pl pllum plum

in a hundred.
pl p plluuum.




The aspect should be south, south-east or south-west. The Pear is of
Plm plllum pluuum pl pluum, pllum-plum pl pllum-plum. Plm Plum pl pl

Eastern origin, and probably retains its Eastern habit in blooming early
Pllllum plluum, plm pluuuuum plluuum plm Pllllum pluum pl pluuuuum pluum

some time before the apple. It needs more warmth, and more protection.
plum plum pluuum plm pllum. Pl pllum plum pluuum, plm plum plluuuuuum.




To plant pears in a north aspect even on a wall is a mistake. Morello
Pl pllum pllum pl p pluum plluum plum pl p plum pl p pllllum. Pllluum

cherries are a sure crop, pears a very doubtful one. The wood is not
plllluum plm p plum plum, pllum p plum pllluuum plm. Plm plum pl plm

well ripened, and bloom-buds are not often formed. The amount of
plum pllllum, plm pllum-plum plm plm pluum plluum. Plm pluuum pl

rainfall is also a matter for consideration. If the soil is light, more
pllluuum pl plum p pluuum plm plllllluuuuum. Pl plm plum pl pluum, plum

moisture will be needed than in heavier land. Heavy clays are not good
plluuuum plum pl plllum plum pl pllluum plum. Pluum pllum plm plm plum

for pears, yet much may be done to improve such soils, and some outlay
plm pluum, plm plum plm pl plum pl pluuuum plum pllum, plm plum plllum

may be desirable in gardens and small plantations. Good drainage will be
plm pl pluuuuuum pl pllluum plm pllum pllllllllum. Plum plllllum plum pl

necessary. The ground before planting must be well lifted and exposed to
plluuuuum. Plm pluuum plluum pllluuum plum pl plum plluum plm plluuum pl

the air; some portions should be burnt and mixed with the rest; decayed
plm plm; plum plllllum plllum pl pluum plm pluum plum plm plum; plluuum

vegetable matter should be added in abundance. After planting, when the
pllluuuum plllum pluuum pl pluum pl plllluuum. Pluum pllluuum, plum plm

trees are rooted and growing, the soil should be often lifted with a
pllum plm plluum plm pllluum, plm plum plluum pl pluum plluum plum p

light fork, or hoed, and the air admitted to the roots. A clayey loam is
pllum plum, pl plum, plm plm plm pluuuuum pl plm pllum. P pluuum plum pl

the best of all soils for the Pear, yet even that may be much improved
plm plum pl plm pluum plm plm Plum, plm plum plum plm pl plum plllllum

by exposure before planting, and the use of the fork or hoe afterwards.
pl plllluum pluuum plluuuum, plm plm plm pl plm plum pl plm plllluuuum.

In sandy or chalky soils, pears will have a poor chance even on the free
Pl pluum pl pluuum pllum, pllum plum plum p plum pluuum plum pl plm plum

(or pear) stock, unless the ground has been previously prepared by
(pl plum) pllum, pluuum plm plluum plm plum plllluuuum pllluuum pl

trenching, and then digging in a good quantity of decayed stable or
pllllllum, plm plum pllluum pl p plum plluuuum pl plluuum pluuum pl

farmyard manure. Marl or clay from other parts, or turf (chopped up)
pluuuuum plluum. Plum pl plum plum pluum pluum, pl plum (plluuum pl)

from a field, may be added with advantage. Generous treatment
plum p pluum, plm pl pluum plum plluuuuum. Pluuuuum pllllllum

subsequently in the way of liquid manure will alone make trees in such
plllllllllum pl plm plm pl plluum plllum plum pluum plum pluum pl plum

ground a success. Should, however, the soil be shallow and the subsoil
plllum p pluuuum. Pluuum, pllllum, plm plum pl pluuuum plm plm pllluum

gravel or chalk, trees must be lifted every few years, and the expense
plllum pl pluum, pluum plum pl plluum pluum plm pluum, plm plm pllluum

in a large garden might be considerable.
pl p pluum pluuum pllum pl plllllllllum.




The monks in olden days were wont to put slates or large stones below
Plm pllum pl pluum plum plum plum pl plm pluuum pl pluum plluum pllum

their trees before planting, to prevent the tap-root running into bad
pllum pllum plllum plllluum, pl pllluum plm plm-plum pluuuum plum plm

soil. In modern gardens a concrete bottom two or three inches thick,
plum. Pl plllum pllllum p plllllum pluuum plm pl pluum plluum pllum,

sloping towards a drain in front, is sometimes made. Methods must depend
pluuuum plluuum p pllum pl pluum, pl plluuuuum plum. Pluuuum plum plluum

on soil and means. A concrete bottom is better than a stratum of stones
pl plum plm pluum. P pllluuum plluum pl plllum plum p plluuum pl plllum

or brick rubbish. Persons content with a few small trees may lift them
pl pllum plluuum. Pluuuum pllllum plum p plm pllum pllum plm plum plum

frequently or root-prune annually, in which case no special precautions
pluuuuuuum pl plum-pluum pluuuuum, pl pllum plum pl pllllum plluuuuuuum

are required.
plm plluuuum.







PROTECTION
PLLLUUUUUM




As the Pear needs sunshine and warmth as well as moisture, it must have
Pl plm Plum pllum pllluuum plm plluum pl plum pl plluuuum, pl plum plum

protection from cold winds. Walls and buildings are not always to be
pluuuuuuum plum plum pluum. Pluum plm pllllluum plm plm plluum pl pl

had. Black Italian or Canadian poplars well planted and rather close
plm. Pllum Pllllum pl Pluuuuum plluuum plum pllllum plm pluuum pluum

together soon form a good shelter; limes (invaluable for bees) quickly
plllllum plum plum p plum pllllum; pllum (plllllluum plm plum) pllluum

make a good fence if encouraged to throw shoots from the lower part of
plum p plum pllum pl pluuuuuuum pl pluum plluum plum plm pllum plum pl

the tree and closely cut in. Hedges of damsons or the myrobalan (the
plm plum plm pllllum plm pl. Plluum pl pluuuum pl plm pllluuuum (plm

cherry plum) serve as shelters from the wind and grow rapidly. This
plluum plum) pllum pl plllluum plum plm plum plm plum pllllum. Plum

cherry plum blooms early, and its flower is often cut off; otherwise its
plllum plum plllum pluum, plm plm pluuum pl pllum plm plm; plluuuuum plm

fruit (ripe in August) is useful for tarts. Protection is needed on the
pllum (plum pl Pluuum) pl pluuum plm pluum. Plllllllum pl plluum pl plm

south-west against the winds as well as on the north-east. The larger
pllum-plum pllllum plm pluum pl plum pl pl plm pluum-plum. Plm pluuum

trees should be placed at some distance that their roots may not absorb
pluum plluum pl pluuum pl plum plllluum plum pluum pluum plm plm pluuum

the nourishment needed in the fruit garden.
plm pllllllllum plllum pl plm pluum plluum.







PLANTING
PLLUUUUM




seems a simple subject, yet the difference between good and bad work may
pluum p plllum pluuuum, plm plm pllluuuuum plluuum plum plm plm plum plm

make the difference between success and failure. Proper planting is of
plum plm pllluuuuum pluuuum pllluum plm pluuuum. Pluuum plluuuum pl pl

vital importance. The ground should be prepared beforehand. If it is
pllum pllluuuuum. Plm pluuum pluuum pl pluuuuum pllllluuum. Pl pl pl

wet, and the water does not readily pass off, drainage is essential. The
plm, plm plm pllum plum plm pllluum plum plm, pluuuuum pl pllluuuum. Plm

depth of the drains must depend on the outfall. If they can be sunk
pluum pl plm plllum plum pluuum pl plm pluuuum. Pl plum plm pl plum

three or even four feet below the surface, they are less exposed to
pllum pl plum plum plum pllum plm pluuuum, plum plm plum pluuuum pl

danger from deep trenching or the roots above them. The drains should be
plluum plum plum plllluuum pl plm pllum pluum plum. Plm pluuum plluum pl

about five yards apart. The soil should then be well trenched and
pluum plum pllum pluum. Plm plum pluuum plum pl plum plllluum plm

exposed thoroughly to the action of the atmosphere. But beware of
pllluum pllllluuum pl plm pluuum pl plm pllluuuuum. Plm plluum pl

opening holes some time beforehand. Should rain come, the holes will be
pllllum pllum plum plum plllllllum. Plllum plum plum, plm pluum plum pl

filled, and if the soil is heavy, may remain there for some time.
pluuum, plm pl plm plum pl pllum, plm pluuum pluum plm plum plum.

Abstain, too, from planting in wet weather. If the ground is sticky, the
Plluuum, plm, plum pllluuum pl plm plluuum. Pl plm plluum pl pluuum, plm

roots will not have free play. Should the soil be light, well-decayed
pllum plum plm plum plum plum. Plllum plm plum pl pluum, plum-plluuum

manure may be dug in, especially if it has been well mixed some time
pluuum plm pl plm pl, plllllluum pl pl plm plum plum pluum plum plum

beforehand with turfy or good loam. In strong soil, no manure is needed.
pllluuuuum plum pllum pl plum plum. Pl plluum plum, pl plllum pl pluuum.

When the trees arrive, do not unpack them until you are ready to plant.
Plum plm pluum plluum, pl plm pluuum plum pllum plm plm pllum pl pllum.

Exposure of the roots to the air should be avoided as much as possible.
Pluuuuum pl plm pllum pl plm plm plluum pl plluuum pl plum pl pluuuuum.

If delay occurs from rain, frost, or any other cause, put the roots in
Pl pllum pluuum plum plum, pluum, pl plm pluum pllum, plm plm pluum pl

the ground, laying the trees in a slanting position in a trench, and
plm plllum, plluum plm pllum pl p pluuuuum pluuuuum pl p plllum, plm

covering the roots thoroughly with soil. Choose, too, a sheltered
plllluum plm pllum pllllluuum plum plum. Plluum, plm, p pluuuuuum

position in the garden for the trench. Should the ground be hard from
pluuuuum pl plm plluum plm plm pluuum. Plluum plm plllum pl plum plum

frost, do not unpack the trees; keep them under cover, and protect them
pluum, pl plm plluum plm pluum; plum plum pllum pluum, plm pluuuum plum

as far as possible from cold and frost. When the ground is fit and the
pl plm pl pllluuum plum plum plm pllum. Plum plm plllum pl plm plm plm

weather favourable, open the earth 2 to 3 feet across at a depth of 12
pllluum plllllllum, plum plm pluum p pl p plum plluum pl p pluum pl pl

to 18 inches according to the class and size of the tree and roots.
pl pl pluuum plllluuum pl plm pllum plm plum pl plm plum plm pluum.

Carefully examine the roots. Cut off the points of any jagged or torn
Pllllllum plluuum plm pluum. Plm plm plm pluuum pl plm plluum pl plum

roots cleanly with a sharp knife, and shorten all downward and coarse
pllum pluuuum plum p pllum pluum, plm pluuuum plm plllllum plm pluuum

roots. Cut on the under side, and towards the outside, so that the tree
pluum. Plm pl plm pluum plum, plm pllllum plm pluuuum, pl plum plm plum

may lie flat. Avoid any injury to the rootlets. The aid of a lad will be
plm plm plum. Pllum plm plllum pl plm plllluum. Plm plm pl p plm plum pl

useful to hold the tree in its place while the gardener is planting.
pluuum pl plum plm plum pl plm pluum pllum plm plllllum pl plllllum.

Spread the roots and rootlets carefully out with an upward rather than a
Plluum plm pluum plm pluuuuum plllluuum plm plum pl plllum plllum plum p

downward tendency. Then scatter fine soil amid them, shaking the trees
pllluuum pllluuum. Plum plluuum plum plum plum plum, plluuum plm pluum

occasionally, adding more soil until it stands erect. Now tread in the
pllllllluuum, pluuum plum plum pluum pl pluuum pluum. Plm pllum pl plm

soil firmly, and fill up the hole with fresh soil, raising the earth
plum plluum, plm plum pl plm plum plum pluum plum, pllluum plm pllum

several inches above the ordinary level. The soil will sink after a
pllluum plluum pluum plm pluuuuum pluum. Plm plum plum plum pluum p

time, and occasionally more soil may be added subsequently. But deep
plum, plm pllllluuuuum plum plum plm pl pllum plllluuuuuum. Plm plum

planting should always be avoided.
plllllum plllum plluum pl plluuum.




With pears on the Quince, it is important that all the quince stock
Plum pllum pl plm Pluuum, pl pl pluuuuuum plum plm plm pluuum pluum

should be covered by the soil, as it suffers in dry weather if exposed,
plllum pl pluuuum pl plm plum, pl pl plluuum pl plm plluuum pl pllllum,

and the fruit would therefore be affected. All buds on this stock should
plm plm pllum pllum pllllluum pl plllluum. Plm plum pl plum pluum pluuum

on this account be inserted as near the ground as possible. Should the
pl plum pluuuum pl pllluuum pl plum plm plluum pl plllllum. Plllum plm

soil be very heavy, yet pears _must_ be planted, place the roots almost
plum pl plum pluum, plm pllum plluum pl pllluum, pllum plm pluum pluuum

on the surface, and throw the lightest earth obtainable round the stem.
pl plm pluuuum, plm pllum plm plllluum pllum plllllllum pllum plm plum.

If such ground is trodden down hard, and rain should soon follow, the
Pl plum pluuum pl pllluum plum plum, plm plum plluum plum pluuum, plm

ground would probably become like a brick, and the roots, kept in check,
plluum pluum plllluum pluuum plum p pluum, plm plm pluum, plum pl pllum,

would suffer seriously.
pluum plllum pllllluum.




The best time for planting is towards the close of October and in
Plm plum plum plm plllllum pl plluuum plm pluum pl Pllllum plm pl

November. Select your trees yourself, and go only to first rate
Pllluuum. Plllum plum pllum pluuuuum, plm pl plum pl pluum plum

nurserymen for pears if you want varieties on the Quince stock. Each
pllllluuum plm pluum pl plm plum pluuuuuum pl plm Pluuum pluum. Plum

nursery has its specialty. Budding, grafting and double-grafting on
pluuuum plm plm pluuuuuum. Pluuuum, plllllum plm plllum-pluuuuum pl

special stocks do not always have the attention and skill required. If
pllluum plluum pl plm pluuum plum plm pllllllum plm pluum pluuuuum. Pl

you cannot go, send your orders early, so as to secure an early choice
plm plluum pl, plum plum plluum pluum, pl pl pl plllum pl pllum plllum

and good trees. Planting may continue to the end of February, but you
plm plum pllum. Pluuuuum plm pllluuum pl plm plm pl Plllllum, plm plm

must not expect good trees for late orders. The roots, too, make some
plum plm pluuum plum pllum plm plum plllum. Plm pllum, plm, plum plum

progress even in winter, so that early planting is preferable in every
pluuuuum plum pl plluum, pl plum pluum plluuuum pl pllllluuum pl pllum

way.
plm.







STAKING AND WIRING
PLUUUUM PLM PLLUUM




Standards should be attached to a round, strong, stout stake 2-½
Pllllluum pluuum pl pluuuuum pl p pluum, plluum, pluum pluum p-p

inches thick or more, as soon as planted. The best plan is to have the
plluum pllum pl plum, pl plum pl pllluum. Plm plum plum pl pl plum plm

stake in position ready for the tree. For full sized standards, the
pllum pl pllluuum pluum plm plm plum. Plm plum pluum plllluuum, plm

stakes should be 7 to 8 feet long, and driven 18 inches or more into the
pluuum pluuum pl p pl p plum plum, plm plllum pl plllum pl plum plum plm

ground; they should be in the centre of each hole. Choose durable wood,
plllum; plum plluum pl pl plm plllum pl plum plum. Plllum pllluum plum,

as far as possible. A straw or hay band, or a piece of bagging, should
pl plm pl plluuuum. P pllum pl plm plum, pl p pllum pl pllluum, plllum

now be run round the stem, and the stake attached to it by thick string
plm pl plm pluum plm plum, plm plm pllum plluuuum pl pl pl pllum pluuum

or cord well tarred. The twigs of the willow (soft and strong,
pl plum plum plluum. Plm pllum pl plm plluum (plum plm plluum,

especially the golden willow) may also be used. Protection against
plllllllum plm plluum plllum) plm plum pl plum. Pllluuuuum plluuum

rabbits must be provided at once. A wire fence round the orchard or
pluuuum plum pl plllllum pl plum. P plum pllum pllum plm pllllum pl

garden is best; where there is no fence, put a yard of wire netting
pluuum pl plum; pluum pluum pl pl pllum, plm p plum pl plum plluuum

(1-¼ mesh) round each tree. This will last for years. The wire should
(p-p plum) pllum plum plum. Plum plum plum plm pllum. Plm plum plluum

be 3 feet high at the least. Examine your fence every year in September
pl p plum plum pl plm pluum. Pllllum plum pluum pluum plum pl Pllllllum

and repair. You cannot be too particular. Serious damage may be done in
plm pluuum. Plm pluuum pl plm plllllllum. Pllllum plluum plm pl plum pl

a night.
p pluum.







STOCKS FOR PEARS
PLUUUM PLM PLUUM




The discovery of the Quince Stock, as adapted to the Pear for budding or
Plm pllluuuum pl plm Plluum Pllum, pl pluuuum pl plm Plum plm pllluum pl

grafting upon, has added immensely of late years to the popularity of
plllluum plum, plm pllum pllllllum pl plum pllum pl plm plllluuuum pl

this valuable fruit. The discovery, it is true, is not a new one.
plum pluuuuum pluum. Plm pluuuuuum, pl pl plum, pl plm p plm plm.

Merlet, writing in 1667 (says Mr Scott), recommends the Portugal Quince
Plllum, pllllum pl plum (plum Pl Pllum), pluuuuuuum plm Plluuuum Pluuum

as stronger and more favourable for working pears upon than any other
pl plllluum plm plum plluuuuuum plm pluuuum pllum plum plum plm pluum

variety: "It swells equally fast with the graft, which none of the other
pllluum: "Pl plluum pllllum plum plum plm pluum, pluum plum pl plm pllum

sorts do." Le Gendre, an author of about the same date, in _Le Manière
pluum pl." Pl Plluum, pl pluuum pl pluum plm plum plum, pl pLm Pluuuum

de cultiver les arbres Frutiers_, says: "I have been much aided by the
pl pluuuuum plm pluuum Pluuuuuum, plum: "P plum plum plum pllum pl plm

invention of grafting the Pear upon the Quince," and adds that he was
pllllllum pl pluuuuum plm Plum plum plm Pluuum," plm plum plum pl plm

one of the first who helped to introduce this method. By this discovery
plm pl plm pllum plm pluuum pl pllllllum plum plllum. Pl plum pllluuuum

the well-known saying: "Plant pears for your heirs," must give way to
plm plum-pluum pluuum: "Pluum pluum plm plum pluum," plum plum plm pl

another:--
pllllum:--




  "That those who plant pears
  "Plum pllum plm pllum pluum

  Grow fruit for their heirs
  Plum pllum plm pluum pllum

  Is a maxim our grandfathers knew;
  Pl p pllum plm pluuuuuuuuum plum;

  But folks have learnt since,
  Plm pluum plum plluum pllum,

  If you graft on the quince
  Pl plm pluum pl plm plluum

  The fruit will develop for you."[1]
  Plm pllum plum pllluum plm plm."[p]




This stock checks excessive growth, and brings the tree into early
Plum pluum plluum pluuuuuum pluuum, plm pluuum plm plum plum pllum

bearing. It is not adapted for large standards nor for light soil; in
pllllum. Pl pl plm pllllum plm pluum pllluuuum plm plm pluum plum; pl

good pear ground it is simply invaluable. Sometimes poor results occur,
plum plum pluuum pl pl plluum pllllluuum. Pllllllum plum plluuum pllum,

but the failure is usually caused by the want of proper care, either at
plm plm pluuuum pl plluuum plluum pl plm plum pl pluuum plum, pluuum pl

the nursery or in the garden. Young trees are often overworked. Some
plm plluuum pl pl plm pluuum. Pllum pllum plm pllum pluuuuuuum. Plum

varieties will not thrive on the quince stock, so that double-grafting
pluuuuuum plum plm plluum pl plm plllum pluum, pl plum plluum-plllluum

has been introduced. Thus the strong-growing Beurré d'Amanlis is grafted
plm plum pllluuuuum. Plum plm pluuum-plluuum Plluum p'Plluuum pl pluuuum

on the quince, then two years after some other sort is grafted on it. It
pl plm plluum, plum plm pllum pluum plum pluum plum pl pllluum pl pl. Pl

is said that in this way Gansel's Bergamot is made "a marvel of
pl plum plum pl plum plm Pluuum'p Plluuuum pl plum "p pluuum pl

fertility,"[2] but this is not my experience! The disappointing pear
plllluuum,"[p] plm plum pl plm pl plllllllum! Plm pllllllluuuum plum

Marie Louise is usually double-grafted, so is that excellent late pear
Pllum Pluuum pl pllllum plllum-pllllum, pl pl plum plluuuuum plum plum

Josephine de Malines for cordons, bushes, or pyramids, and so are many
Pllllluum pl Pllllum plm pllllum, plllum, pl pluuuuum, plm pl plm plum

others. Strong-growing varieties like Vicar of Winkfield, Beurré Hardy,
plllum. Plluum-pluuuum pllllluum plum Pluum pl Pllllllum, Plllum Pllum,

Beurré Clairgeau, Marie Louise d'Uccle, and others, are used as
Pluuum Pllllluum, Pluum Plllum p'Pluum, plm plluum, plm plum pl

intermediate stocks. To check the vigorous Pitmaston Duchess, the weakly
pluuuuuuuuum plluum. Pl pluum plm plllluum Pllluuuum Pllluum, plm pluuum

Winter Nelis is employed as an intermediary. Our chief nurserymen are
Pluuum Pllum pl plluuuum pl pl pllllllluuum. Plm pllum plllluuuum plm

studying the habits of each pear which needs double grafting, and
pluuuuum plm pluuum pl plum plum pllum pllum plluum plllluum, plm

failure is rare on their part. Fruits grown on the Quince Stock are
plluuum pl plum pl pluum plum. Plluum pluum pl plm Plluum Pluum plm

often more highly coloured, and not so coarse as such as are on the Pear
pluum plum pluuum pllluuum, plm plm pl plluum pl plum pl plm pl plm Plum

Stock. Those who have a good pear soil then should plant no tree on the
Pllum. Pluum plm plum p plum plum plum plum plluum pllum pl plum pl plm

Pear Stock, except in an orchard.
Plum Pluum, plllum pl pl plluuum.




The varieties usually employed are the Portugal, the Angers, and the
Plm pllllluum plluuum pluuuuum plm plm Plllllum, plm Plllum, plm plm

common Quince. The Angers being compact, prolific, and easily increased,
pluuum Plllum. Plm Plllum pluum pluuuum, plllluum, plm plluum plllluuum,

is said to be the favourite.[3]
pl plum pl pl plm pluuuuuum.[p]




In some soils Pear Stocks must be used. The Quince would not thrive; it
Pl plum pluum Plum Plllum plum pl plum. Plm Plluum pllum plm plluum; pl

is not strong enough. The latter is surface rooting, it emits more
pl plm plllum plllum. Plm plluum pl pllluum pllllum, pl pluum plum

fibres, and does not rejoice in the tap-root of the Pear Stock. But for
pluuum, plm plum plm pluuuum pl plm plm-plum pl plm Plum Pluum. Plm plm

light and unfavourable soils, and also for large standards, the Pear
pllum plm pllllllluuum pluum, plm plum plm pllum plluuuuum, plm Plum

Stock alone will suffice. This is often called the Free Stock, as
Pllum pluum plum pllluum. Plum pl pllum plluum plm Plum Pluum, pl

compared with the dwarfing Quince. In former years the seeds of the
pluuuuum plum plm plllllum Plllum. Pl plllum pluum plm pllum pl plm

wild pear were used to raise new stocks, but at the present time pear
plum plum plum plum pl pluum plm plluum, plm pl plm pllllum plum plum

seedlings are sent from France to England and the United States in large
plluuuuum plm plum plum Plluum pl Pllllum plm plm Plllum Plllum pl pllum

quantities. Our cousins, however, are exerting themselves earnestly to
plllluuuum. Plm pllluum, pllllum, plm plluuuum plllluuuum pllllllum pl

improve the pear, and with their energy and variety of climate, will not
plluuum plm plum, plm plum pluum pluuum plm plluuum pl pluuuum, plum plm

long be dependent upon France.
plum pl pluuuuuum plum Plluum.







ORCHARD TREES
PLUUUUM PLLUM




In good soil and a favourable, well-sheltered aspect, standard trees on
Pl plum plum plm p pllllluuum, plum-plluuuuum pluuum, plllluum pluum pl

the pear stock may be a success if planters and owners can wear the cap
plm plum pllum plm pl p pllllum pl plllllum plm pluuum plm plum plm plm

of patience for eight to ten years. Should it be probable that cattle
pl pluuuuum plm pllum pl plm pllum. Plllum pl pl plllluum plum pluuum

will use the ground, a strong and lasting fence must be put round each
plum plm plm plluum, p plllum plm pllllum pllum plum pl plm pllum plum

tree, as thorns encircling them will not suffice. Iron fences made for
plum, pl plluum pllluuuuum plum plum plm pllllum. Plum plluum plum plm

the purpose, with wire netting added at the top, may be the cheapest in
plm plluuum, plum plum pluuuum pllum pl plm plm, plm pl plm pluuuuum pl

the end. Otherwise, put three posts (larch or oak) to form a triangle
plm plm. Plllluuum, plm pllum pluum (pllum pl plm) pl plum p pllluuum

round the tree. These should be well charred or tarred at some distance
pllum plm plum. Pllum pluuum pl plum pluuuum pl plluum pl plum plllluum

from the lower end before being firmly driven in. The tops should slant
plum plm pluum plm plluum pllum plllum plluum pl. Plm plum pluuum pllum

outwards. Then nail cross-pieces to the posts; old railway-sleepers are
plllluum. Plum plum pluum-plluum pl plm pllum; plm pllluum-plllluum plm

sometimes cheap and useful. The standards in good soil should be thirty
plluuuuum pllum plm plluum. Plm pllluuuum pl plum plum pluuum pl pluuum

feet apart or more. It is a mistake to allow the grass at any time to
plum pluum pl plum. Pl pl p pllluum pl pluum plm pluum pl plm plum pl

grow under the trees. Moisture which pears require is absorbed, and the
plum pllum plm pluum. Pllluuum pluum pllum pluuuum pl plllluum, plm plm

air is kept from the roots. Reduce the branches after planting (in
plm pl plum plum plm pluum. Plluum plm pllluuum pllum plllllum (pl

October or November) to five or six at the most; cut these back to an
Plluuum pl Plllluum) pl plum pl plm pl plm plum; plm pluum plum pl pl

outer eye, six to nine inches from the stem. The roots will establish
pluum plm, plm pl plum plluum plum plm plum. Plm pluum plum pluuuuuum

themselves for the first year, and good growth will usually follow. The
plluuuuuum plm plm pluum plum, plm plum plllum plum pluuuum pluuum. Plm

strength of a tree depends mainly on its roots. These must not be
plllluum pl p plum plluuum pluuum pl plm pllum. Pluum plum plm pl

overtasked at first, or the tree will suffer seriously. Next year, late
plluuuuuum pl pluum, pl plm plum plum plluum pllllluum. Plum plum, plum

in July, cut back to the sixth leaf all shoots springing from the main
pl Plum, plm plum pl plm pluum plum plm plluum pluuuuuum plum plm plum

branches which run inwards; keep the centre open, well exposed to the
plllllum pllum plm plluuum; plum plm plluum plum, plum pluuuum pl plm

light, sun and air, and allow the main branches to develop themselves
pllum, plm plm plm, plm pluum plm plum plluuuum pl pllllum pluuuuuuum

freely. In the winter cut all shoots not needed back to two or three
plluum. Pl plm plluum plm plm plluum plm plllum plum pl plm pl pllum

eyes. If more boughs are needed, shorten the leading shoots, always
plum. Pl plum plluum plm pluuum, pllllum plm pllllum plluum, plllum

cutting just above an outer eye. Make the tree as even as you can by
plluuum plum pluum pl pluum plm. Plum plm plum pl plum pl plm plm pl

shortening leading shoots on opposite sides. Never allow boughs to cross
plluuuuuum pllllum pluuum pl pluuuuum pllum. Pllum pluum plllum pl pllum

or to interfere with one another. If boughs are void of a fair
pl pl pllllluum plum plm plluuum. Pl plllum plm plum pl p plum

proportion of shoots and spurs, they should be stopped. Be careful to
plllllllum pl plluum plm pluum, plum pluuum pl plluuum. Pl pllluum pl

admit the sun fully on the south side. Cut off all shoots springing from
pluum plm plm pluum pl plm pllum plum. Plm plm plm pluuum pllllluum plum

the central part or on the lower part of the branches of old standards.
plm pllluum plum pl pl plm pllum plum pl plm plllluum pl plm pluuuuuum.

If young standard trees are well planted, carefully fed and pruned, the
Pl pluum plllluum pluum plm plum pllluum, plllluuum plm plm plluum, plm

stems kept clear of weeds and grass, they can be brought into
pllum plum pluum pl pllum plm pluum, plum plm pl pllllum plum

comparatively early bearing. Where irrigation is possible, let a stream
pllllllllluum pluum plluuum. Pluum pllllluuum pl pluuuuum, plm p plllum

of water that has flowed some distance over the ground be turned in dry
pl pluum plum plm pluuum plum pllluuum plum plm plllum pl pluuum pl plm

weather on to their roots, or let liquid manure be given after rain; the
plluuum pl pl pllum pllum, pl plm plllum plllum pl pluum pluum plum; plm

effect will be surprising. But beware of very cold or stagnant water!
plluum plum pl plllllluum. Plm pluuum pl plum plum pl pluuuuum pllum!




Early pears are probably the most profitable for orchard planting. The
Pllum pluum plm pllluuum plm plum plllluuuum plm pluuuum plluuuum. Plm

following are reliable:--
pllluuuum plm plluuuum:--




Six Market Orchard Standard Pears selected by Messrs Bunyard: Hessle,
Plm Pluuum Pllluum Plluuuum Pllum plluuuum pl Plllum Pluuuum: Plllum,

Fertility, Williams' Bon Chrétien, Beurré Capiaumont, Durondeau,
Pllllluum, Plllluum' Plm Pluuuuum, Plluum Pllluuuuum, Pllluuuum,

Pitmaston Duchess.
Plllluuum Plluuum.




Messrs Rivers' list of seven: Beacon, Bon Chrétien, Clapp's Favourite,
Plluum Pluuum' plum pl pllum: Plluum, Plm Plluuuum, Pllum'p Pllllllum,

Fertility, Conference, Marie Louise d'Uccle, Vicar of Winkfield.
Pllllluum, Pllllluuum, Pluum Plluum p'Pluum, Pllum pl Pluuuuuum.




The list of an eminent firm in the south is as follows:--
Plm plum pl pl pluuuum plum pl plm pluum pl pl pllllum:--




Bon Chrétien, Hessle, Pitmaston Duchess, Louise Bonne of Jersey, Emile
Plm Plluuuum, Plluum, Plluuuuum Plluuum, Plllum Pllum pl Plllum, Pluum

d'Heyst, Marie Louise. At the Pear Conference (R.H.S.), 1885, Bon
p'Pllum, Pluum Plllum. Pl plm Plum Plllllluum (P.P.P.), plum, Plm

Chrétien had 50 votes, Louise Bonne 46, B. Capiaumont 38, Hessle 30.
Pluuuuum plm pl pluum, Plllum Pluum pl, P. Plllllluum pl, Plllum pl.

Thus, William's B. C. has 4 votes, Hessle 3, Pitmaston 2, Fertility 2.
Plum, Pllluum'p P. P. plm p pllum, Plluum p, Pllluuuum p, Plluuuuum p.

Personally, I prefer Pitmaston as a bush, the fruit being so large. It
Pllluuuuum, P plllum Pllluuuum pl p plum, plm pllum pluum pl pluum. Pl

is a pear for a good market, not a coster's fruit. Ten trees of three
pl p plum plm p plum pluuum, plm p plllum'p pluum. Plm pllum pl pluum

varieties would make a good orchard. Vicar of Winkfield or Verulam might
plluuuuum pllum plum p plum pllluum. Pluum pl Plluuuuum pl Plluuum pluum

be added for a later Stewing Pear. The bloom of Marie Louise is so
pl pluum plm p pllum Pluuuum Plum. Plm pllum pl Pllum Pluuum pl pl

tender that I prefer Marie Louise d'Uccle, a very good cropper; the
pluuum plum P plllum Pluum Plluum p'Pllum, p plum plum pllluum; plm

fruit is sometimes sold as Marie Louise. The list of 1885 is hardly up
pluum pl pllluuuum plum pl Pllum Plluum. Plm plum pl plum pl pluuum pl

to date. Louise Bonne does not do well with me as a standard, and I
pl plum. Pluuum Pluum plum plm pl plum plum pl pl p plluuuum, plm P

should substitute Fertility. Clapp's Favourite is also very promising.
pluuum plluuuuuum Plluuuuum. Pluum'p Plllluuum pl plum plum plllluuum.




If the plantation is of any size, do not put two trees of the same
Pl plm plllllllum pl pl plm plum, pl plm plm plm pluum pl plm plum

variety close together. Some varieties are self-sterile, yet quite
plluuum pluum plluuuum. Plum pluuuuuum plm plum-pluuuum, plm pluum

capable of cross-fertilisation from the pollen of other varieties. Bees
plluuum pl pluum-plluuuuuuuuum plum plm plllum pl pllum plluuuuum. Plum

should be kept close at hand to fertilise the blooms.
pluuum pl plum pllum pl plum pl pllluuuum plm pluuum.




The following is Mr Radcliffe Cook's list of orchard standards for Perry
Plm plluuuuum pl Pl Pluuuuuum Plum'p plum pl pluuuum pllllllum plm Pllum

(see his "Cider and Perry"):--
(plm plm "Pllum plm Pllum"):--




Barland, Moorcroft, Red Pear, Taynton Squash, early varieties.
Plluuum, Pllllluum, Plm Plum, Plluuum Plluum, pluum plllluuum.




Langland, Yellow and Black Huffcup, midsummer.
Plllllum, Plluum plm Pluum Pllllum, pllllllum.




Blakeney Red, Butt Pear, Oldfield, Pine Pear, Rock Pear, late.
Plluuuum Plm, Plum Plum, Pluuuuum, Plum Plum, Plum Plum, plum.




It is said that in France there are more than 1500 varieties of Perry
Pl pl plum plum pl Pluuum pllum plm plum plum plum pluuuuuum pl Pluum

Pears. We must "wake up" and grow the best varieties.
Pllum. Pl plum "plum pl" plm plum plm plum pllllllum.







PYRAMIDS
PLUUUUUM




No one should plant high standards except under special circumstances;
Pl plm plllum pluum plum plllluuum plluum pllum pllllum plllllllluuum;

pyramids are a part of almost every large and good fruit-garden. In
plllllum plm p plum pl plluum pllum pluum plm plum pllum-plllum. Pl

moist, strong soils they should be on the Quince Stock. In light soils
pllum, plllum pllum plum pluuum pl pl plm Plllum Pllum. Pl pllum pluum

the Pear Stock alone has a chance. Some trees succeed only as bushes,
plm Plum Pllum pllum plm p plllum. Plum pluum pllluum plum pl plllum,

others can be trained as pyramids. The lists of the leading nurserymen
plllum plm pl pluuuum pl plluuuum. Plm pluum pl plm pluuuum plllllllum

usually refer to the habits of each tree. Buy trees trained as pyramids
plluuum pluum pl plm pluuum pl plum plum. Plm pluum pllluum pl plllluum

direct from the nursery. If you prefer maidens (trees one year old)
pluuum plum plm pllluum. Pl plm plllum pllluum (pluum plm plum plm)

train as follows: In early spring, after planting, stop the tree
pluum pl pllluum: Pl pllum plluum, pllum plllllum, plum plm plum

slightly, and encourage growth; next winter cut it down almost to the
plluuuum, plm pllluuuum plluum; plum pluuum plm pl plum pluuum pl plm

stock. A strong shoot from the base must now be made the leader and the
pluum. P plllum pllum plum plm plum plum plm pl plum plm pluuum plm plm

central stem. Next winter cut this back to within 18 inches of the
pluuuum plum. Plum pluuum plm plum plum pl plluum pl plluum pl plm

ground. The highest shoot next season must be trained upwards by a
pluuum. Plm pllllum pllum plum pluuum plum pl plluuum pluuuum pl p

straight stake; the side shoots will form branches. These in September
plllluum pluum; plm plum plllum plum plum pluuuuum. Pllum pl Pllluuuum

must be brought (by stakes) into a horizontal position. The stronger
plum pl pllllum (pl plluum) plum p plluuuuuum plllluum. Plm plllllum

must be more depressed, the weaker may be left for another year. Bend
plum pl plum plllluuum, plm plluum plm pl plum plm pluuuum plum. Plum

into position before the sap sinks. In winter reduce side shoots on
plum pluuuuum plllum plm plm pluum. Pl plluum plluum plum plluum pl

branches to two or three eyes. Cut the leading shoot 12 or 15 inches
plllllum pl plm pl pllum plum. Plm plm pluuuum pluum pl pl pl pluuum

(according to growth or soil) above the branch below it, so as to
(pllllllum pl plllum pl plum) pluum plm plluum pluum pl, pl pl pl

produce fresh branches. Bend these down as before. As the tree
plluuum pluum plluuuum. Plum pllum plum pl pluuum. Pl plm plum

progresses, the leading shoot may be stopped in summer when it has grown
plllllluum, plm pllllum pllum plm pl plluuum pl plluum plum pl plm pllum

a foot, so as to throw out more branches; it may grow another foot
p plum, pl pl pl pluum plm plum plllllum; pl plm plum plluuum plum

upwards by September, and also send out fresh branches. Every care
pllluum pl Pluuuuuum, plm plum plum plm pluum pllluuum. Pluum plum

should be taken to keep an upright and straight stem. In summer pruning
pluuum pl pluum pl plum pl pluuuum plm pluuuuum plum. Pl pluuum pllluum

check the upper branches before the lower, stopping the terminal shoots
pllum plm pllum plllllum plluum plm pllum, plllluum plm plllllum plluum

so that they shall not spread out further than those below them. Stop
pl plum plum pllum plm pluuum plm plluuum plum pluum pluum plum. Plum

them when they have grown 8 or 10 inches, removing the top. Any shoots
plum plum plum plum pllum p pl pl plluum, pllluuum plm plm. Plm plllum

from the branches (laterals) must be reduced to six or seven leaves
plum plm plluuuum (pluuuuum) plum pl pluuuum pl plm pl pllum pluuum

about mid-June (on young trees), so as to open the tree and concentrate
pllum plm-Plum (pl pluum pluum), pl pl pl plum plm plum plm plllllluuum

growth on necessary parts, and also to produce bloom-buds. These may
pluuum pl plllluuum pluum, plm plum pl pllluum pllum-plum. Pllum plm

form near the base. In winter reduce to two or three eyes.[4] Pyramids
plum plum plm plum. Pl pluuum pluuum pl plm pl pllum plum.[p] Pllluuum

on the Pear Stock in strong soil reach a height of 15 to 25 feet, but
pl plm Plum Pluum pl plllum plum pluum p plllum pl pl pl pl plum, plm

such trees are hard to manage. Weak growing sorts might be tried. The
plum pllum plm plum pl plluum. Plum plluuum pluum pluum pl pluum. Plm

larger trees would need annual root-pruning (half a side each year) to
pluuum pluum pllum plum plluum plum-pllluum (plum p plum plum plum) pl

secure good crops. Train pyramids from the nursery in a similar way,
plllum plum pluum. Pllum pllluuum plum plm pluuuum pl p pluuuum plm,

keeping the upper branches in subjection to the lower, taking care to
pllluum plm pllum pluuuuum pl plllllluum pl plm pllum, plluum plum pl

let light into every part of the tree by summer pruning. Pyramids on the
plm pluum plum pluum plum pl plm plum pl pluuum pllllum. Plllllum pl plm

Quince should be not less than 10 feet apart, 15 in strong soil with
Plluum plllum pl plm plum plum pl plum pllum, pl pl plluum plum plum

strong sorts (such as Pitmaston Duchess, or Duchesse d'Angoulême); on
pluuum pluum (plum pl Pllllluum Pllluum, pl Plllllum p'Pluuuuuum); pl

the Pear Stock in similar soil for strong sorts 20 feet apart. Avoid
plm Plum Pluum pl pluuuum plum plm plluum pluum pl plum pllum. Pluum

crowding. Lift or root-prune rather than crowd. Do not plant two trees
pllluuum. Plum pl plum-pllum pluuum plum pllum. Pl plm pllum plm pllum

of the same variety close together. The pollen of a different sort may
pl plm plum plluuum pllum pluuuuum. Plm plllum pl p pllllluum plum plm

make each tree more fruitful. Have hives of bees at no great distance to
plum plum plum plum plluuuum. Plum pllum pl plum pl pl pllum plluuuum pl

promote fertilisation.
pllllum pllllllllllum.




The following are good sorts for pyramids:--
Plm pluuuuuum plm plum pllum plm pllluuum:--




Citron des Carmes (on pear) early, Williams' Bon Chrétien, Clapp's
Pluuum plm Pluuum (pl plum) pluum, Pllluuum' Plm Pllluuum, Pluum'p

Favourite, Marie Louise d'Uccle, Duchesse d'Angoulême, Durondeau,
Plluuuuum, Pluum Pluuum p'Pluum, Plllllum p'Pluuuuuum, Pllllluum,

Fondante d'Automne, Beurré Hardy, Beurré Superfin, Maréchal de la Cour,
Pllluuum p'Pluuuum, Pluuum Pluum, Plllum Plllluum, Pluuuuum pl pl Plum,

Doyenné du Comice, Princess, Josephine de Malines, Beurré Rance.
Pllluum pl Plllum, Plllluum, Pllllllum pl Pllllum, Plluum Pluum.




COOKING PEARS.--Bellissime d'Hiver, Vicar of Winkfield,
PLUUUUM PLUUM.--Plluuuuuum p'Pllum, Pllum pl Plllluuum,

Verulam.
Pllluum.




Others might be added. Some of these also do well as bushes.
Plllum pluum pl pllum. Plum pl pllum plum pl plum pl plluum.







COLUMNAR TREES
PLLUUUUM PLLUM




are pyramids on a smaller scale, kept well in check by lifting or
plm plllluum pl p pllluum pllum, plum plum pl pllum pl pluuuum pl

root-pruning, more like a column than a pyramid. In light soil this work
plum-pllllum, plum plum p plllum plum p pluuuum. Pl pluum plum plum plum

would not be needed. They are adapted for small gardens, and, well
pluum plm pl plllum. Plum plm pluuuum plm pluum pluuuum, plm, plum

managed, may be very useful. Plant from 8 to 10 feet apart.
pluuuum, plm pl plum plllum. Pllum plum p pl pl plum pllum.







ESPALIERS
PLUUUUUUM




in the open ground (according to some good growers) are the most
pl plm plum pluuum (pllllluum pl plum plum pluuuum) plm plm plum

economical of space, but I do not care much for them. Train at first
plllllluum pl pllum, plm P pl plm plum plum plm plum. Pllum pl pluum

from maidens as for a pyramid, keeping one upright shoot and guiding one
plum pluuuum pl plm p pluuuum, pluuuum plm pluuuum pluum plm pluuuum plm

branch each side in an almost horizontal position. Cut back the leader
plllum plum plum pl pl pluuum plllllluum plllluum. Plm plum plm pluuum

once a year at first at about 12 or 15 inches from the branch below to
plum p plum pl pllum pl pluum pl pl pl pluuum plum plm pluuum pllum pl

one bud just above the buds whence the branches are to spring. From this
plm plm plum pllum plm plum plllum plm pluuuuum plm pl plllum. Plum plum

one bud the upright leader will grow. The branches should be about a
plm plm plm plluuum plllum plum plum. Plm pluuuuum pluuum pl pllum p

foot apart. Stop the topmost in summer (if very strong) to divert the
plum pluum. Plum plm plluuum pl pluuum (pl plum plluum) pl pluuum plm

sap into other parts. Stop strong horizontals to strengthen the weak and
plm plum pluum pluum. Plum plllum pllllllllum pl pllllluuum plm plum plm

to promote fruit-buds. Stop shoots on the branches late in June or in
pl pluuuum pllum-plum. Plum plllum pl plm pluuuuum plum pl Plum pl pl

July at six full leaves, if the tree is flourishing, but not otherwise.
Plum pl plm plum plllum, pl plm plum pl pllllllluum, plm plm pllluuuum.

Equalise the sap as far as possible. Espaliers may be bought from the
Pluuuuum plm plm pl plm pl plllllum. Plllluuum plm pl plllum plum plm

nurseries, saving several years. Plant 15 or 20 feet apart according to
plluuuuum, plluum pluuuum pllum. Pllum pl pl pl plum pluum pllllluum pl

ground and tree. Support with rails or stout firm stakes placed 2-½
plllum plm plum. Pllllum plum pluum pl pluum plum plllum pluuum p-p

feet from the walk; place the tree 3 inches from the stake on the side
plum plum plm plum; pllum plm plum p plllum plum plm pllum pl plm plum

of the path. Keep the trees low to prevent shade on the garden; 5 feet
pl plm plum. Plum plm pllum plm pl pluuuum pluum pl plm plluum; p plum

is high enough. Prune established trees in July; cutting back fresh
pl plum plluum. Pluum pllllllluum pluum pl Plum; pluuuum plum pllum

shoots (laterals) to six leaves, and opening the tree and fruit to the
plluum (pllluuum) pl plm plllum, plm pllllum plm plum plm pluum pl plm

sun, removing shoots not needed. Reduce to two or three buds in winter;
plm, plllllum plluum plm plllum. Plllum pl plm pl pllum plum pl plllum;

with a small saw cut back large lumpy pieces the growth of years.
plum p pluum plm plm plum pllum pluum pluuum plm plluum pl pllum.







HORIZONTALS ON WALLS
PLLLLLLUUUM PL PLLUM




should be trained as Espaliers. They are better for a low than a high
pluuum pl plluuum pl Plllluuum. Plum plm pluuum plm p plm plum p plum

wall. The branches should be about a foot (four bricks) apart. In some
plum. Plm pllluuum pluuum pl pllum p plum (plum plllum) pllum. Pl plum

old gardens, enormous Horizontals may be seen with the branches at
plm pllllum, plluuuum Plluuuuuuum plm pl plum plum plm pllluuum pl

distant ends turned upwards. The lower branches are horizontal as far as
pllluum plum pluuum pluuuum. Plm pllum pluuuuum plm plllluuuum pl plm pl

the space allows, then turned upwards. This change checks the sap,
plm pllum plluum, plum pluuum pllluum. Plum plllum pluuum plm plm,

lessens luxuriance, and promotes fruit-buds. But there often is
pllllum plllllllum, plm plluuuum pluum-plum. Plm pllum pllum pl

excessive growth in the upper parts. These upper shoots must be pruned
pllllluum plluum pl plm pluum pllum. Pluum pllum plllum plum pl plluum

before the lower. Such trees are called Palmetto Verrier, and are
plluum plm pllum. Plum pluum plm plluum Plllllum Pllluum, plm plm

scarcely to be recommended.
pluuuuum pl pl plllllluuum.







FAN-SHAPED TREES
PLM-PLLLUM PLUUM




are adapted to high walls. Tomatoes or other fruits may be grown below
plm pluuuum pl plum pluum. Plluuuum pl pluum pluuum plm pl pluum pluum

in the vacant spaces. By planting a standard against a high wall, it
pl plm plllum plllum. Pl pluuuuum p plllllum pllluum p plum plum, pl

will soon be covered if fed and duly trained. Cut the tree back as an
plum plum pl plluuum pl plm plm plum plluuum. Plm plm plum plum pl pl

orchard standard after planting. Keep the boughs well away from each
pllluum pluuuuum pluum plllllum. Plum plm plllum plum plum plum plum

other, 12 inches or more apart. If a wall is shaded with foliage it
pllum, pl plluum pl plum pluum. Pl p plum pl plluum plum pllluum pl

derives little heat from the sun. Stop the gross upright shoots early in
pluuuum plluum plum plum plm plm. Plum plm pllum pllluum plllum pllum pl

the season to spread the sap, and summer prune in July. Keep the
plm plluum pl plllum plm plm, plm pluuum pluum pl Plum. Plum plm

branches close to the wall, and complete pruning in winter. These trees
pluuuuum pllum pl plm plum, plm plluuuum plluuum pl pluuum. Pllum pllum

must be on the Pear Stock. The choicest sorts, such as Doyenné du
plum pl pl plm Plum Pllum. Plm pllluuum pllum, plum pl Plluuum pl

Comice, Beurré Superfin or Diel should be selected for a south wall.
Plluum, Pluuum Pluuuuum pl Plum plluum pl pluuuuum plm p pllum plum.

Prune the upper parts before the lower. Wires may be placed on the walls
Pluum plm pllum pluum pluuum plm pllum. Pluum plm pl plllum pl plm pllum

1-½ inches out, with an interval of 12 inches or more between each
p-p plllum plm, plum pl plluuuum pl pl plluum pl plum pluuuum plum

wire.
plum.







BUSHES
PLLLUM




are of great value, either in a plantation or a garden. In good soil,
plm pl pluum pluum, plllum pl p plluuuuuum pl p pluuum. Pl plum plum,

even those on the quince grow large, and may need root-pruning or
plum pluum pl plm plllum plum pluum, plm plm plum plum-pllluum pl

moving. In poor soil, with gravel or chalk not far below, bushes on Pear
pluuum. Pl plum plum, plum plluum pl pluum plm plm pllum, plluum pl Plum

Stock must be moved every few years, and well fed. Rotten manure
Pllum plum pl pllum pluum plm pluum, plm plum plm. Plllum pluuum

given in the autumn will attract and feed the roots. Fruit on low bushes
pllum pl plm plllum plum pluuuum plm plum plm pllum. Pluum pl plm pluuum

is less affected by strong winds. Some sorts do better as bushes than as
pl plum pluuuuum pl pluuum pllum. Plum pluum pl plllum pl pluuum plum pl

pyramids; bushes, too, are more under control. A maiden tree after
plllluum; plllum, plm, plm plum pluum plluuum. P plllum plum pllum

planting should be allowed to grow for a year unchecked, to establish
plluuuum pluuum pl pllllum pl plum plm p plum pluuuuuum, pl pllllllum

the roots. In winter cut the tree back to within a foot of the ground.
plm pllum. Pl plluum plm plm plum plum pl pluuum p plum pl plm pluuum.

In the spring it will throw out vigorous shoots. Select three or four of
Pl plm plluum pl plum pllum plm plllllum plllum. Plluum pluum pl plum pl

these, and fix them in position with stakes, removing the others. Next
pllum, plm plm plum pl plllllum plum plluum, plluuuum plm plllum. Plum

winter cut these back to an outer eye, leaving six or nine inches of
pluuum plm pllum plum pl pl pllum plm, pluuuum plm pl plum plllum pl

each branch from the stem. Other branches will soon follow. Time will be
plum pluuum plum plm plum. Pluum pluuuuum plum plum pluuum. Plum plum pl

saved by buying bushes from the nursery. Keep these as open as possible,
pluum pl pluuum pluuum plum plm pllllum. Plum pluum pl plum pl plllluum,

especially on the south side and the centre. Each branch should be a
plluuuuuum pl plm pluum plum plm plm pluuum. Plum plluum pluuum pl p

foot apart. Summer prune in July and winter as before. Stop the branches
plum pluum. Pluuum pllum pl Plum plm plluum pl pluuum. Plum plm plllllum

in summer, if growing rapidly, to produce fruit spurs, and in winter cut
pl plllum, pl plluuum pluuuum, pl pllllum pllum pluum, plm pl pluuum plm

back to strong wood (to an outer eye). All new wood will thus be
plum pl plluum plum (pl pl pllum plm). Plm plm plum plum plum pl

feathered during the following year. Some bushes are very diffuse and
plluuuuum plluum plm pllllluum plum. Plum pluuum plm plum pllllum plm

need much room, _e.g._ Catillac and Uvedale St Germain. Bushes on quince
plum plum plum, pl.p.p Pluuuuum plm Pluuuum Pl Pllllum. Plllum pl plllum

should be eight to twelve feet apart; strong growers, such as Pitmaston,
plllum pl pluum pl pluuum plum pllum; plllum pllllum, plum pl Pluuuuuum,

Duchesse d'Angoulême, Catillac, should be even more in good soil, if
Plluuuum p'Pllllluum, Plluuuum, pluuum pl plum plum pl plum plum, pl

root-pruning is not to be practised. The following are good as bush
plum-plluuum pl plm pl pl plluuuuum. Plm plluuuuum plm plum pl plum

trees:--
pllum:--




[Illustration: BERGAMOTTE ESPEREN ON WALL]
[Plllluuuuuum: PLLLLLLLUM PLLLLUM PL PLUM]




_Dessert Pears._--Doyenné d'Été (very early), Beurré Giffard,
pLluuuum Pluum.p--Pluuuum p'Plm (plum pllum), Plluum Plluuum,

Jargonelle, B. d'Amanlis, Doyenné Boussoch, Louise Bonne, Pitmaston
Plllllluum, P. p'Pluuuum, Pluuuum Plluuuum, Plluum Pluum, Plllluuum

Duchess, Emile d'Heyst, B. Diel, Forelle or Trout Pear, B. Clairgeau,
Pllllum, Pllum p'Pluum, P. Plum, Pluuuum pl Pllum Plum, P. Pllllluum,

Winter Nelis, Josephine de Malines, Passe Crassanne, Easter Beurré.
Pluuum Pllum, Plllluuum pl Pluuuum, Pluum Plluuuuum, Plllum Plluum.




_Cooking Pears._--Catillac, Uvedale's St Germain, Verulam (more
pLllllum Pllum.p--Pluuuuum, Plluuum'p Pl Pllluum, Pllllum (plum

compact), Bellissime d'Hiver (grows like a cypress). Others might be
plluuum), Plluuuuuum p'Pllum (pllum plum p pllluum). Plllum pluum pl

added. Some of these do well also as pyramids.
pllum. Plum pl pluum pl plum plum pl plluuuum.







CORDONS
PLLUUUM




oblique or diagonal, on one stem only, are my favourites. The finest
pllllum pl plluuuum, pl plm plum plum, plm pl plllllllum. Plm plllum

fruit can be grown on them even in the open, if the situation is good
pllum plm pl pllum pl plum plum pl plm plum, pl plm plluuuuum pl plum

and well protected. They are usually placed against a wall, but they
plm plum plluuuuum. Plum plm pllluum plllum pllluum p plum, plm plum

also do well on wires. These should be put near a path about 18 inches
plum pl plum pl pllum. Pluum pluuum pl plm plum p plum pluum pl plluum

or 2 feet away, and 2 to 3 feet should be allowed the other side. If the
pl p plum plum, plm p pl p plum pluuum pl pllllum plm pllum plum. Pl plm

wires run N. and S., the best fruit will be on the S. side. E. and W. is
pluum plm P. plm P., plm plum pluum plum pl pl plm P. plum. P. plm P. pl

a better aspect, but both are good if there is shelter. On a wall, S. or
p pluuum plllum, plm plum plm plum pl pluum pl pluuuum. Pl p plum, P. pl

S.-W. is best. Plant single cordons in good ground, they will soon grow
P.-P. pl plum. Pluum plllum plluuum pl plum pluuum, plum plum plum plum

and bear. Double-grafted trees are dearer, yet cheap. All in such soil
plm plum. Plluum-pllllum pluum plm plluum, plm pluum. Plm pl plum plum

should be on Quince. On chalk or gravel soils they must be on the pear
plluum pl pl Plllum. Pl pllum pl plllum pluum plum plum pl pl plm plum

or free stock. Older trees cost a trifle more, but never buy _old
pl plum pluum. Pluum pllum plum p plllum plum, plm pluum plm plum

trees_. Old trees are like old folks, they rarely transplant well. Avoid
plllum. Plm pllum plm plum plm pluum, plum plluum plluuuuuum plum. Pluum

horizontal or double cordons. The former are too near the ground, and
pllllluuum pl plluum plluuum. Plm pluuum plm plm plum plm plllum, plm

often in the gardener's way. The latter are not so manageable as single
pluum pl plm plllluum'p plm. Plm plluum plm plm pl plluuuuuum pl plllum

stems. Sometimes single stems fail from various causes; they can be
pllum. Pluuuuuum pluuum pluum plum plum pluuuum pluuum; plum plm pl

easily removed, and a fresh tree substituted at little cost. In a year
plluum plluuum, plm p pllum plum pllllllllum pl pluuum plum. Pl p plum

or two the new tree, if not cropped at first, may begin to do well and
pl plm plm plm plum, pl plm pllllum pl pluum, plm pllum pl pl plum plm

bear fruit. Plant 18 or 20 inches from each other at an angle of 45°;
plum pluum. Pluum pl pl pl pluuum plum plum pluum pl pl pllum pl pl°;

when the tree reaches the top wire, train it onwards. After a time, this
plum plm plum pluuuum plm plm plum, pllum pl pluuuum. Pllum p plum, plum

wire may be crowded; then a tree here and there may be allowed (as a
plum plm pl pluuuum; plum p plum plum plm pllum plm pl pllllum (pl p

single stem) to go upwards. But root-pruning (half a side only) each
pluuum plum) pl pl pluuuum. Plm plum-pllllum (plum p plum plum) plum

year will keep gross growers in check. Stop the tops of strong growers
plum plum plum pllum pluuuum pl pluum. Plum plm plum pl plllum pllllum

of any size after planting to produce fruit buds, and always remove
pl plm plum pluum plllluum pl pllllum pluum plum, plm plllum plluum

blossom buds at the top. All varieties do well as cordons; the most
plluuum plum pl plm plm. Plm plllluuum pl plum pl pluuuum; plm plum

tender should be planted in the best protected and warmest spot. The
plllum plluum pl pllluum pl plm plum pluuuuuum plm pluuuum plum. Plm

wires (galvanised) should be stretched from iron posts, the latter
pllum (pllllluuum) plllum pl pllluuuum plum plum pluum, plm plllum

strengthened with stays. Bars of iron perforated, flat, and light, 6 or
pllllluuuuum plum pllum. Plum pl plum plllllllum, plum, plm pllum, p pl

7 feet apart, should keep the wires in position. The lowest wire should
p plum pllum, plluum plum plm pllum pl pllluuum. Plm plluum plum plluum

be about 18 inches from the ground, the wires above at least 12 inches
pl pllum pl plluum plum plm pluuum, plm pllum pluum pl pluum pl pluuum

apart. Six feet is a sufficient height for the top wire. Otherwise the
pllum. Plm plum pl p plllluuuum pluuum plm plm plm plum. Pllllllum plm

garden is shaded and the trees require a ladder. Oak posts 7 to 8 feet
plluum pl pluuum plm plm pllum pllllum p plluum. Plm pluum p pl p plum

long, 4 to 5 inches through, tarred or charred at the bottom, are
plum, p pl p plluum pluuuum, pluuum pl plluuum pl plm plllum, plm

perhaps cheaper at first. These also require stays. In three or four
pllllum pllluum pl pluum. Pluum plum pllluum pluum. Pl pluum pl plum

years the wires are almost covered, and good crops in a fine season
pluum plm pllum plm plllum plluuum, plm plum pllum pl p plum plllum

follow. Leave openings at intervals for gardeners to go through.
plllum. Pluum plluuuum pl pllllllum plm pllllllum pl pl pluuuum.







ARCHES
PLLUUM




(with a cordon on each) may also be formed over paths and wires
(plum p pluuum pl plum) plm plum pl plluum plum pllum plm pllum

stretched from one to another. But beware of bringing them very near to
pluuuuuum plum plm pl plluuum. Plm plllum pl plllluum plum plum plum pl

each other. Sun and air are essential to success. A shoot allowed to run
plum pllum. Plm plm plm plm pluuuuuum pl pllluum. P pluum pllluum pl plm

along a high horizontal wire will often bear fine fruit. Walls too
pluum p plum pllluuuuum plum plum pllum plum plum pllum. Pluum plm

should be covered with cordons rather than horizontals. Double the crop
plluum pl plluuum plum pllllum plllum plum pllllllllum. Pluuum plm plum

is often secured in half the time. Visitors to the Chiswick Gardens of
pl pllum pluuuum pl plum plm plum. Plllluum pl plm Pluuuuum Pllluum pl

the R.H.S. may see a large number on a high wall bearing in a hot
plm P.P.P. plm plm p pllum pluuum pl p plum plum plluuum pl p plm

gravelly soil good fruit. The treatment of all such trees is simple. If
pluuuuum plum plum pllum. Plm pllluuuum pl plm plum pluum pl pluuum. Pl

against a wall and on light soil, they must be fed well. Stable manure
pluuuum p plum plm pl pluum plum, plum plum pl plm plum. Pluuum plluum

should be given in the autumn and left to decay; liquid manure when the
plluum pl pluum pl plm pluuum plm plum pl pluum; pluuum plluum plum plm

fruit begins to swell. Summer prune in July, pinching or cutting new
pllum pluuum pl pllum. Plluum pllum pl Plum, plluuuum pl pllllum plm

growths back to the sixth leaf, reducing these in autumn to two or three
pllllum plum pl plm pluum plum, pllluuum pluum pl pluuum pl plm pl pllum

eyes, but leaving fruit buds untouched. Root prune when necessary in
plum, plm pllluum pluum plum pluuuuuum. Plum pllum plum pluuuuuum pl

late October or November. In winter, look over the trees, see that all
plum Pllllum pl Pluuuuum. Pl plluum, plum plum plm pllum, plm plum plm

are tied properly, reduce with a small saw any large lumps of wood
plm plum pluuuuum, plluum plum p pllum plm plm pluum pllum pl plum

formed in the course of years, and prepare the trees for spraying or
pluuum pl plm plluum pl pllum, plm plluuum plm pluum plm plluuuum pl

washing.
pllllum.







PRICES OF TREES
PLLUUM PL PLLUM




The cost of Standards is usually from 1s. 6d. to 2s. 6d.; Maidens or
Plm plum pl Pllllluum pl pluuuum plum pl. pl. pl pl. pl.; Plluuum pl

Yearlings 1s. 6d. each, 12s. per dozen; Bush and Pyramids on Pear or
Pllluuuum pl. pl. plum, plm. plm pllum; Plum plm Pluuuuum pl Plum pl

Quince 1s. 6d. to 3s. 6d.; cordons, 1s. 6d. each, 12s. per dozen;
Pluuum pl. pl. pl pl. pl.; pllllum, pl. pl. plum, plm. plm pllum;

double-grafted trees 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d.
plllum-pllllum pllum pl. pl. pl pl. pl.







GARDEN ORCHARDS
PLLUUM PLLLLUUM




Bush trees on the Quince are best for these. They come soon into
Plum pluum pl plm Plllum plm plum plm pluum. Plum plum plum plum

bearing, are interesting and sometimes profitable. Heavy fruits have a
plluuum, plm plllluuuuum plm pllluuuum plluuuuuum. Pluum plluum plum p

better chance than those on standards or on pyramids. These latter
plluum pluuum plum pluum pl plllluuum pl pl plllluum. Pluum plluum

require more time, and are more exposed to the wind. Pyramids can soon
plluuum plum plum, plm plm plum pluuuum pl plm plum. Pllluuum plm plum

be converted into bushes by cutting out the central branch within 2 or 3
pl pluuuuuum plum plluum pl pluuuum plm plm pluuuum plllum plllum p pl p

feet of the ground. Begin by enclosing your orchard with a wire fence,
plum pl plm pluuum. Pllum pl pllllluum plum pluuuum plum p plum pllum,

then form a hedge of damsons. Plant your pears 8 to 12 feet apart. Keep
plum plum p pluum pl pluuuum. Pluum plum pluum p pl pl plum pllum. Plum

avenues open for the transit of manures; one hard path or road may be
pluuuum plum plm plm pluuuum pl pluuuum; plm plum plum pl plum plm pl

very useful. Use intermediate spaces for other crops while the bushes
plum pluuum. Plm pllllluuuuum plluum plm pllum pluum pllum plm pluuum

are young. As crops cannot be expected every year, grow gooseberries,
plm pllum. Pl pllum plllum pl plllluum pllum plum, plum plllllllllum,

strawberries, currants, salads, etc., in a large plantation. Trees of
plluuuuuuuum, pllluuum, plllum, plm., pl p pllum plllluuuum. Pllum pl

the same variety should not be planted next each other. Pollination is
plm plum pllllum plluum plm pl plluuum plum plum pllum. Pllllllluum pl

often promoted by a different variety being close at hand. The following
pllum plllluum pl p plllluuum pllluum pllum pluum pl plum. Plm pllllllum

are reliable and saleable:--Beacon, Clapp's Favourite, Bon Chrétien, B.
plm pllluuum plm plllllum:--Plluum, Pluum'p Plllluuum, Plm Plllllum, P.

d'Amanlis, Souvenir du Congrès, Louise Bonne, Fertility, B. Hardy, D. du
p'Pluuuum, Plllllum pl Pllluum, Pluuum Pluum, Plllluuum, P. Pluum, P. pl

Comice, Durondeau, Pitmaston Duchess, B. Diel, Josephine de Malines, and
Pluuum, Plluuuuum, Pluuuuuum Plluuum, P. Plum, Pllllllum pl Pllluum, plm

(cooking) Verulam. No one growing for market should plant all these
(pllllum) Plluuum. Pl plm plluuum plm plllum pluuum pluum plm pluum

sorts except in a large plantation, a first rate soil, and a well
pllum plluum pl p pllum plllllllum, p pluum plum plum, plm p plum

sheltered position. For market only take Bon Chrétien, Amanlis,
plluuuuum plllluum. Plm pluuum plum plum Plm Plllluum, Pllllum,

Fertility, Durondeau, Pitmaston Duchess, Josephine de Malines, Verulam.
Pllllluum, Pllllllum, Pllllluum Plluuum, Pllllllum pl Pluuuum, Pllluum.

Bon Chrétien does not suit every soil. Clapp's Favourite might be
Plm Plluuuum plum plm plum pluum plum. Pluum'p Pllluuuum pllum pl

better. Fertility, Durondeau and Pitmaston are a good three; Hessle,
pluuum. Pllllluum, Pluuuuuum plm Pluuuuuum plm p plum pllum; Pluuum,

Beacon and Fertility, if earlier pears are desired.
Plluum plm Pllllllum, pl pllluum pluum plm pllluum.







MANURES
PLLUUUM




The artificial manures recommended by the R.H.S. are as follows: 4 oz.
Plm plluuuuuum pluuuum plllluuuuum pl plm P.P.P. plm pl pllllum: p pl.

of Basic slag and 1 oz. of Kainit per square yard (as far as the roots
pl Pllum plum plm p pl. pl Pluuum plm pluuum plum (pl plm pl plm pllum

extend) in the autumn; follow these in February or March with 2 oz. of
plluum) pl plm plluum; plllum pllum pl Pluuuuum pl Pllum plum p pl. pl

superphosphate and 1 oz. of sulphate of ammonia. Liquid manure
plllllluuuuuum plm p pl. pl plluuuum pl pllluum. Plllum plluum

stimulates growth of wood, roots and fruit. Soot (1 peck to 30 gallons
plllluuuum plllum pl plum, pluum plm pllum. Plum (p plum pl pl plluuum

of water) allowed to stand till the liquid is clear, given once or twice
pl pllum) pluuuum pl pluum plum plm pluuum pl pllum, pluum plum pl pllum

a week, is very helpful. Every fruit-grower should have a good supply of
p plum, pl plum pllllum. Pllum pllum-pluuum pluuum plum p plum plllum pl

some kind at hand. Not a drop from his stables, etc., should be wasted
plum plum pl plum. Plm p plum plum plm pluuuum, plm., plluum pl plllum

in summer. In a drought it may save his trees.
pl plllum. Pl p pllluum pl plm plum plm pllum.




But rank or fruitless trees of any age, as a rule, need no manure. If
Plm plum pl pllluuuum pluum pl plm plm, pl p plum, plum pl plluum. Pl

there is a heavy crop, feed well when the growing season is over. Pears
pllum pl p pllum plum, plum plum plum plm plluuum plllum pl plum. Pluum

are gross and thirsty feeders. Messrs Rivers[5] recommend "that a peck
plm pllum plm pluuuum pllllum. Pluuum Pluuum[p] pllllluum "plum p plum

of soot should be strewed on the surface in a circle 3 feet in diameter
pl plum pluuum pl plluuum pl plm pllllum pl p pluuum p plum pl plllluum

round each (dwarf) tree in March. Pears on the Quince in a light, dry
pluum plum (pluum) plum pl Pluum. Pllum pl plm Plllum pl p pllum, plm

soil should have the surface round the tree covered during June, July
plum pluuum plum plm pllllum pluum plm plum pluuuum pluuum Plum, Plum

and August, with short litter or manure, and in dry weather be drenched
plm Pluuum, plum pllum pluuum pl plllum, plm pl plm pllluum pl plllluum

once a week with guano water (1 lb. to 10 gallons), and equal parts of
plum p plum plum pllum pllum (p pl. pl pl pllluum), plm pluum pllum pl

soot, which must be well stirred before it is used. Each tree should
plum, pluum plum pl plum pllluum pluuum pl pl plum. Plum plum pluuum

have 10 gallons poured gradually into the soil. Lime rubbish or chalk
plum pl pllllum plllum plluuuuum plum plm plum. Plum pllllum pl pluum

should be added wherever there is any deficiency." If it be possible, in
plluum pl pllum pluuuuum pluum pl plm plluuuuuum." Pl pl pl plllllum, pl

dry weather allow a stream of water to flow by their roots, or in any
plm pllluum pluum p plllum pl pluum pl plum pl pllum pllum, pl pl plm

case give liquid manure. The roots should never be dry; cracking often
plum plum pluuum plllum. Plm pllum plluum pllum pl plm; plluuuum pllum

follows rain just after a drought if the roots are dry. Soot is a
pllllum plum plum pllum p plluuum pl plm pllum plm plm. Plum pl p

safeguard against insects, and is supposed to give colour. Dr Griffiths
pllllluum pluuuum plluuum, plm pl plllluum pl plum plllum. Pl Pllllluum

(in "Special Manures for Garden Crops," p. 101) says: "Nitrogenous
(pl "Plluuum Pllluum plm Plllum Pllum," p. plm) plum: "Plllllluuum

manures are requisite for backward, potash and phosphates for forward
pluuuum plm pluuuuuum plm pllluuum, plluum plm plllllluum plm pllllum

trees; the former aids growth, the latter develops bloom, the sugar in
pllum; plm plluum plum pluuum, plm pluuum plllllum pluum, plm pllum pl

the fruit, and the ripening of the wood. Pear trees are aided by a
plm pluum, plm plm plllluum pl plm plum. Plum pllum plm pllum pl p

manure containing four parts (by weight) of kainit and one part of
pluuum pluuuuuuum plum pllum (pl pluuum) pl pluuum plm plm plum pl

superphosphate--4 lbs. of this mixture to be given in the spring to each
pllllluuuuuuum--p plm. pl plum pluuuum pl pl pluum pl plm plluum pl plum

tree after pruning. If the trees are backward, water once a week with a
plum pllum pllllum. Pl plm pllum plm plllluum, pllum plum p plum plum p

solution containing 1 oz. of nitrate of soda to 2 gallons of water." If
plllllum plllllllum p pl. pl pllluum pl plum pl p pllluum pl pluum." Pl

basic slag and kainit are given, autumn is the time, as their action is
pluum plum plm plllum plm pluum, plllum pl plm plum, pl pllum plllum pl

slow. Nitrate of soda is good on hot, dry, and chalky soils.
plum. Pllllum pl plum pl plum pl plm, plm, plm plluum pluum.







PEARS FOR A PRIVATE GARDEN
PLLUM PLM P PLUUUUM PLLUUM




If the space is small, try cordons or bushes. If three are enough,
Pl plm pluum pl pllum, plm pllllum pl pluuum. Pl pllum plm plllum,

Fertility, Pitmaston, Josephine de Malines; if six, add Durondeau, Bon
Pluuuuuum, Pllllllum, Pllluuuum pl Pllllum; pl plm, plm Pllllluum, Plm

Chrétien, Comice; if nine, add B. Hardy, B. Superfin, Verulam; if
Pllluuum, Plluum; pl plum, plm P. Pluum, P. Pluuuuum, Plluuum; pl

twelve, B. d'Amanlis, Louise Bonne, B. Clairgeau; if fifteen,
pluuum, P. p'Pllluum, Plllum Pllum, P. Plluuuuum; pl plluuum,

Jargonelle, Clapp's Favourite, B. Diel; if twenty, Doyenné Boussoch,
Pllllluuum, Pluum'p Pllllluum, P. Plum; pl pluuum, Pllluum Plllllum,

Marie Louise d'Uccle, Maréchal de la Cour; if twenty-three, Glou
Pluum Plluum p'Pluum, Plllluum pl pl Plum; pl plllum-pluum, Plum

Morceau, Winter Nelis, Passe Crassanne; if twenty-six, Comte de Lamy,
Pluuuum, Pluuum Pllum, Pluum Plllluuum; pl plluum-plm, Pluum pl Plum,

Dana's Hovey, Thompson's; if thirty, Doyenné d'Été, Emile d'Heyst,
Plum'p Pllum, Plluuuum'p; pl plluum, Pllluum p'Plm, Pllum p'Pllum,

Baronne de Mello, Easter Beurré or Olivier de Serres.
Pluuuum pl Pluum, Pluuum Plllum pl Pllllum pl Pluuum.







EXHIBITION PEARS
PLLLLLLUUM PLUUM




Size is of importance as well as perfection in every point. Coarse pears
Plum pl pl plluuuuuum pl plum pl pllluuuuum pl pluum pluum. Plluum pluum

of inferior quality rarely win. Choice must depend on the time of year
pl pluuuuum pllluum plllum plm. Pluuum plum pluuum pl plm plum pl plum

when you compete. The same fruits cannot be sent to several shows; they
plum plm pllluum. Plm plum plluum plllum pl plum pl pllluum pllum; plum

are certain to be bruised and to suffer in some way. The following are
plm plluuum pl pl pluuuum plm pl plllum pl plum plm. Plm pllllluum plm

the chief pears for exhibition:--
plm pllum pllum plm pllllluuum:--




[Illustration: PEAR--MARÉCHAL DE LA COUR]
[Plllllluuuum: PLUM--PLLLLLUM PL PL PLUM]




              _August and September._
              pLlluum plm Pllllluum.p




  Beacon.                    Souvenir du Congrès.
  Plllum.                    Pluuuuum pl Pllllum.

  Flemish Beauty.            Clapp's Favourite.
  Pllllum Plluum.            Pluum'p Pllluuuum.

  Bon Chrétien.              Marguerite Marillat.
  Plm Plluuuum.              Pluuuuuuum Plllllum.







           _September and October._
           pLllluuuum plm Pllllum.p




  B. d'Amanlis.              Bonne d'Ezée or Brockworth Park.
  P. p'Pllllum.              Pllum p'Plum pl Plllluuuum Plum.

  Beurré de l'Assomption.    Triomphe de Vienne.
  Plluum pl p'Pluuuuuuum.    Plllluum pl Pluuum.







                  _October._
                  pLuuuuum.p




  B. Hardy.                  Marie Louise d'Uccle.
  P. Pluum.                  Pllum Pluuum p'Pluum.

  D. Boussoch.               B. Superfin.
  P. Pllluuum.               P. Plllluum.

  Louise Bonne.
  Plluum Pluum.







             _October and November._
             pLllluum plm Plllluum.p




  Beurré Alexandre Lucas.    Maréchal de la Cour.
  Plllum Plllluuum Pluum.    Pluuuuum pl pl Plum.

  Emile d'Heyst.             D. du Comice.
  Pllum p'Pluum.             P. pl Pluuum.

  B. Diel.                   Pitmaston D.
  P. Plum.                   Pllllluum P.

  Beurré Fouqueray.          Magnate.
  Plluum Pllllllum.          Plluuum.

  Duchesse d'Angoulême.      Conference.
  Plllluum p'Plluuuuum.      Pllllluuum.

  Durondeau.                 Marie Louise.
  Plllluuum.                 Pluum Plllum.







            _November and December_.
            pLlluuuum plm Plluuuuum.




  Thompson's.                B. Sterkmans.
  Pllluuum'p.                P. Pllllluum.

  Nouveau Poiteau.           B. d'Anjou.
  Pllluum Plluuum.           P. p'Pllum.

  Princess.                  Glou Morceau.
  Plllluum.                  Plum Pllluum.

  Fondante de Thirriott.     General Todleben.
  Plluuuum pl Pllllllum.     Pllllum Plluuuum.

  B. Baltet Père.
  P. Pluuum Plum.







                _January, etc._
                pLluuuum, plm.p




  Nouvelle Fulvie.           Passe Crassanne.
  Pluuuuum Plllum.           Pllum Pluuuuuum.

  Bergamotte Esperen.        President Barabé.
  Plluuuuuum Pllllum.        Plllluuum Plluum.

  Olivier de Serres.         Easter Beurré.
  Pllluum pl Plluum.         Plluum Plllum.

  B. Rance.
  P. Pllum.







COOKING PEARS FOR EXHIBITION
PLLLLUM PLLUM PLM PLLLUUUUUM




             _December and April._
             pLlllllum plm Pllum.p




  Uvedale's St Germain.      Bellissime d'Hiver.
  Pllllum'p Pl Pllluum.      Plllllllum p'Pllum.

  Catillac.                  Directeur Alphand.
  Plllllum.                  Plllluuum Pluuuum.

  Verulam.
  Pluuuum.




Size is the chief point in cooking pears, then equality of excellence.
Plum pl plm pllum pllum pl plluuum pllum, plum pllluuum pl pllluuuuum.

Size is produced by careful culture and good feeding in good soil.
Plum pl plluuuum pl pllllum pllluum plm plum pllluum pl plum plum.




The dates above are only approximate.
Plm pluum pllum plm plum plllluuuuum.







PEARS FOR APPEARANCE
PLLUM PLM PLLLLUUUUM




[Illustration: PEAR--MARGUERITE MARILLAT]
[Pllllluuuuum: PLUM--PLLLUUUUUM PLLLLUUM]




Doyenné Boussoch is perhaps the most handsome of all pears, but does not
Pluuuum Pluuuuum pl pllllum plm plum pllluuum pl plm pluum, plm plum plm

last long. Marguerite Marillat (September) is large and handsome, so are
plum plum. Plllllluum Plllluum (Pllllllum) pl pluum plm plllluum, pl plm

B. Clairgeau, B. Sterkmans, B. Mortillet, Souvenir du Congrès, B. Baltet
P. Pllluuuum, P. Pllllllum, P. Pllllluum, Plluuuum pl Pllllum, P. Plluum

Père (very turbinate), B. Giffard, B. Hardy, Louise Bonne, and others.
Plum (plum plluuuuum), P. Pluuuum, P. Pllum, Plllum Pllum, plm plllum.







PEARS FOR QUALITY
PLLUM PLM PLLLUUM




Much depends on the season, soil and situation. In a cold season, even
Plum pllllum pl plm plllum, plum plm plllluuum. Pl p plum plluum, plum

pears of good quality are only fit for cooking. Thus used, they are
pluum pl plum pllluum plm plum plm plm pluuuum. Plum plum, plum plm

often excellent. The sweetest of all pears is Comte de Lamy. Dana's
pllum plllluuum. Plm plluuuum pl plm pllum pl Pluum pl Plum. Plum'p

Hovey (of American origin) is perhaps its equal. D. du Comice, B. Hardy,
Pluum (pl Plluuuum plluum) pl pllllum plm pluum. P. pl Plluum, P. Pluum,

Marie Louise, Josephine de Malines, Winter Nelis, Bon Chrétien, B.
Pluum Plluum, Plluuuuum pl Pluuuum, Plluum Pllum, Plm Plllluum, P.

Superfin, Thompson's, Fondante d'Automne, are among the best. A warm
Pllluuum, Plllluum'p, Pluuuuum p'Plluuum, plm pllum plm plum. P plum

autumn makes a vast difference. B. Diel then becomes first rate, so do
pluuum pllum p plum pllluuuuum. P. Plum plum pllllum pluum plum, pl pl

Passe Crassanne, Olivier de Serres, Bergamotte Esperen, B. d'Anjou, B.
Pllum Plluuuuum, Pllluum pl Pluuum, Plllluuuum Pllllum, P. p'Pllum, P.

Sterkmans, and others.
Pluuuuuum, plm plluum.







COOKING PEARS
PLLUUUM PLUUM




Growers should keep in mind that dessert pears often cook well if
Pllluum plluum plum pl plum plum pluuuum pluum pllum plum plum pl

gathered before they are ripe. Stewed pears are excellent food in every
pllluuum plllum plum plm plum. Plluum pluum plm pluuuuuum plum pl pllum

way; pears that do not ripen well can be utilised thus. There are
plm; pllum plum pl plm pluum plum plm pl pllluuum plum. Pllum plm

special sorts pre-eminently good. Verulam and Bellissime d'Hiver, very
pllllum pluum plm-plluuuuum plum. Plluuum plm Pllluuuuum p'Pluum, plum

fertile as bushes or cordons, keep and cook well. Catillac and Uvedale's
pllluum pl plluum pl pllluum, plum plm plum plum. Plllluum plm Plluuum'p

St Germain are very large, the latter often enormous; the fruit
Pl Pllluum plm plum pllum, plm plllum pluum plllluum; plm pllum

sometimes exceeds 2 lb. if the tree is well fed. The two last are
pllllluum pllllum p pl. pl plm plum pl plum plm. Plm plm plum plm

spreading as bushes, but do well as cordons. Bellissime d'Hiver was the
pllluuuum pl plllum, plm pl plum pl pluuuum. Plllluuuum p'Pluum plm plm

favourite C. pear of the famous Dr Hogg. Vicar of Winkfield is also
pllluuuum P. plum pl plm plluum Pl Plum. Pluum pl Pluuuuuum pl plum

good, but not so lasting. Cooking pears should begin in September and
plum, plm plm pl plluuum. Pllllum pluum plluum pluum pl Plluuuuum plm

last until April. B. Clairgeau is regarded by the R.H.S. as a cooking
plum pllum Pllum. P. Plllluuum pl plluuuum pl plm P.P.P. pl p pllluum

pear. It is free-bearing and handsome, but not lasting. Directeur
plum. Pl pl plum-plluuum plm pluuuuum, plm plm plluuum. Pluuuuuum

Alphand (new) is described as very large, but needs sun to ripen.
Pllllum (plm) pl plluuuuum pl plum pluum, plm pluum plm pl pluum.







EARLY PEARS
PLLUM PLUUM




These are not important (except for sale), as so many fruits of other
Pllum plm plm plllluuum (plllum plm plum), pl pl plum pluuum pl pluum

kinds are usually abundant. Doyenné d'Été is the first in.
pluum plm plluuum plluuuum. Pllluum p'Plm pl plm pluum pl.

Double-grafted on the Quince, it is very fertile. Next comes Citron des
Pluuum-pllluum pl plm Pluuum, pl pl plum pllluum. Plum pllum Pluuum plm

Carmes, a great French favourite. The fruit of this is said to be fine
Plllum, p pllum Pluuum plllluuum. Plm pluum pl plum pl plum pl pl plum

when the tree is double-grafted. Crawford, a favourite Scotch pear, is
plum plm plum pl plluum-pllluum. Pllluuum, p pllllluum Plluum plum, pl

regarded as its superior north of the Tweed. Jargonelle is also a
plluuuum pl plm pllluuum pllum pl plm Pluum. Plllllluum pl plum p

Scotch favourite, especially in Perth, where every vacant wall space is
Plluum pllluuuum, pllluuuuum pl Pllum, pllum pllum plllum plum pluum pl

said to be soon occupied by this pear. It is grown, too, as a standard
plum pl pl plum plllllum pl plum plum. Pl pl pllum, plm, pl p plllluum

on the free stock, but does not love the Quince. If double-grafted, the
pl plm plum pllum, plm plum plm plum plm Plllum. Pl pluuum-pluuuum, plm

leading shoot pinched as well as the side shoots two or three times in
pllluum pluum pllluum pl plum pl plm plum plluum plm pl pllum pllum pl

the season, it will bear well. Beacon and B. Giffard are also August
plm plllum, pl plum plum plum. Plluum plm P. Plluuum plm plum Plluum

pears. Later on come Clapp's Favourite, Bon Chrétien, and many others.
pluum. Pllum pl plum Pllum'p Plluuuuum, Plm Plluuuum, plm plum plluum.

Early sorts should be gathered before they are ripe. Mr G. Bunyard
Pluum pllum plluum pl plllllum plllum plum plm plum. Pl P. Pllluum

recommends that early pears as well as early apples should be laid in
pllllluuum plum pllum pluum pl plum pl pluum pluuum pluuum pl plum pl

heaps, covered with nettles or straw, and "sweated," to improve their
pllum, pluuuum plum pluuuum pl pluum, plm "plluuum," pl plluuum pllum

appearance. They are said to colour well treated thus.
plluuuuuum. Plum plm plum pl pluuum plum pllluum plum.







LATE PEARS
PLUM PLUUM




Are often worthless until they are in the kitchen; yet a warm autumn
Plm pluum pllluuuum pllum plum plm pl plm pluuuum; plm p plum plluum

makes some of them delicious. The best of all is Josephine de Malines.
pllum plum pl plum pllllluum. Plm plum pl plm pl Pluuuuuum pl Pllllum.

The tree does well as a standard or bush, and the demand for the fruit
Plm plum plum plum pl p plllluum pl plum, plm plm pluuum plm plm pluum

is sometimes great. With care it will last to March. Next comes Winter
pl plllluuum pluum. Plum plum pl plum plum pl Pluum. Plum pluum Plllum

Nelis, not so hardy; then follow Nouvelle Fulvie, Madame Millett, Passe
Pluum, plm pl pllum; plum plluum Plluuuum Plluum, Plllum Pluuuum, Pllum

Crassanne, Olivier de Serres, Easter Beurré, and B. Rance. A new sort,
Pllluuuum, Pllllum pl Plluum, Pluuum Pluuum, plm P. Pluum. P plm plum,

President Barabé, has received a First Class Certificate from the R.H.S.
Plluuuuum Pluuum, plm plllllum p Pllum Pluum Plllllluuum plum plm P.P.P.

Late varieties must be allowed on the trees as long as possible, and be
Plum pluuuuuum plum pl pluuuum pl plm pluum pl plum pl pluuuuum, plm pl

_well_ protected from birds. Great care must be taken in handling and
plllum pllluuuum plum pluum. Pllum plum plum pl pluum pl plllllum plm

storing. Bruised pears soon rot.
pluuuum. Pllllum pllum plum plm.







PEARS FOR COTTAGERS AND SMALL FARMERS
PLLUM PLM PLUUUUUUM PLM PLLUM PLLLUUM




The following were selected in 1892 by the R.H.S. on the advice of forty
Plm pllluuuum plum pllluuum pl plum pl plm P.P.P. pl plm plllum pl pluum

experts: _for eating_, Jargonelle, Bon Chrétien, B. d'Amanlis, Louise
pluuuum: plum pllluum, Plluuuuuum, Plm Pluuuuum, P. p'Pllllum, Pluuum

Bonne, Durondeau, Marie Louise, D. du Comice, Pitmaston Duchess; _for_
Pluum, Pllllllum, Pllum Plllum, P. pl Pluuum, Pllllluum Pluuuum; pllum

_cooking_, B. Clairgeau, Catillac, Uvedale's St Germain, Verulam. But
pluuuuuum, P. Pllllllum, Pluuuuum, Plluuum'p Pl Pluuuum, Plluuum. Plm

Marie Louise is a poor and uncertain bearer.
Pluum Pluuum pl p plum plm pllllluum plllum.







SYNONYMS
PLUUUUUM




When fruit trees have numerous names, they certainly are popular,
Plum pluum pluum plum pllluuum pllum, plum plllluuum plm pllllum,

probably good.
plllluum plum.




Passe Colmar has twenty-eight, chiefly French; grown in a rich warm soil
Pluum Pluuum plm plllum-pllum, pllllum Plllum; pllum pl p plum plum plum

it is a first-rate dessert pear (November). The tree is vigorous and
pl pl p pllum-plum plluuum plum (Plluuuum). Plm plum pl plluuuum plm

makes a good pyramid.
pluum p plum pluuuum.




B. Diel has thirteen: among the French it is Beurré Magnifique. It
P. Plum plm pluuuuum: pluum plm Pluuum pl pl Pluuum Pllluuuuum. Pl

requires a good season here.
plluuuum p plum pluuum plum.




Uvedale's St Germain (Belle Angevine of the French) has twenty-two,
Plluuum'p Pl Pluuuum (Pllum Plllluum pl plm Plllum) plm plllum-plm,

chiefly French. Yet it was raised in 1690 by Dr Uvedale, a Schoolmaster
pllllum Pluuum. Plm pl plm plluum pl plum pl Pl Pluuuum, p Pllllluuuuum

of Eltham in Kent.
pl Pluuum pl Plum.




Windsor, a very old English pear, mentioned in 1629, yet of French
Plluuum, p plum plm Plluuum plum, pllluuuum pl plum, plm pl Pluuum

origin, has eleven. The fruit is large and greenish-yellow, flushed, but
plluum, plm pluuum. Plm pllum pl pluum plm plluuuum-pluuum, pluuuum, plm

soon becomes dry and worthless. In good soil it grows and bears well
plum pllllum plm plm pllllllum. Pl plum plum pl pluum plm pllum plum

(August).
(Pluuum).




White Doyenné has fourteen, a fairly good September and October pear,
Pllum Pllllum plm plluuuum, p pluuum plum Plluuuuum plm Pllluum plum,

rather large, a good bearer, "flesh white, but somewhat acrid and
plluum pllum, p plum plluum, "pllum pllum, plm plllluum pllum plm

gritty" (Barron).
plllum" (Plllum).




Vicar of Winkfield has twelve. A long large fruit often twisted, fairly
Pluum pl Plllluuum plm plluum. P plum pllum pluum pluum pllllum, pluuum

good for baking, from November to January, "second rate" (Barron).
plum plm plluum, plum Plllluum pl Plluuum, "plluum plum" (Plllum).




B. Rance has six. A long, largish, late pear, sometimes very good.
P. Pluum plm plm. P plum, plluuum, plum plum, pluuuuuum plum plum.




Wardens, a name given to pears which never melt, are long keeping, and
Pluuuum, p plum pllum pl pluum pluum pllum plum, plm plum plluuum, plm

used for cooking only. The name comes from the Cistercian Abbey of
plum plm plluuum plum. Plm plum pluum plum plm Plllluuuum Pluum pl

Warden in Beds. Parkinson's Warden is now Black Worcester. There are
Plluum pl Plum. Plllluuum'p Plluum pl plm Pllum Plluuuuum. Pluum plm

Spanish, White and Red Wardens.
Plluuum, Pllum plm Plm Pllllum.




Bishop's Thumb was originally called Bishop's Tongue, It was a
Plluum'p Pllum plm plluuuuuum pluuum Pluuum'p Pluuum, Pl plm p

favourite in 1690, and is still a favourite. The tree is hardy and a
plluuuuum pl plum, plm pl pllum p pluuuuuum. Plm plum pl pllum plm p

good bearer, the fruit long, firm, melting, sweet (October, November).
plum plluum, plm pluum plum, plum, plluuum, pluum (Pllluum, Plllluum).




Brown Beurré has ten; an old favourite, which requires a wall or very
Pllum Plluum plm plm; pl plm pllllllum, pluum pllluuum p plum pl plum

warm site (October).
plum plum (Pllllum).




Chaumontel has nine, requires a very warm climate. Better in Jersey than
Plllllllum plm plum, plllllum p plum plum pllllum. Pluuum pl Plluum plum

in Britain.
pl Pluuuum.




[Illustration: PEAR--BEURRÉ DIEL]
[Pllllluuuuum: PLUM--PLLLUM PLUM]




Easter Beurré has twenty-two, most of them French. Good if grown in good
Plllum Plllum plm plluum-plm, plum pl plum Plluum. Plum pl pluum pl plum

soil and in a good season. It does not grow well on the Quince.
plum plm pl p plum plllum. Pl plum plm plum plum pl plm Pluuum.




Flemish Beauty has seventeen. The fruit is large and sometimes russetty
Pllllum Pluuum plm plllluuum. Plm pluum pl pllum plm pllluuuum plllluum

and flushed crimson; good only when gathered before it is ripe
plm plluuum pllllum; plum plum plum plllllum plluum pl pl plum

(September and October).
(Pluuuuuum plm Plluuum).




Louise Bonne has seven. Raised at Avranches in Normandy (1788), it
Plluum Pluum plm pllum. Plluum pl Plllluuum pl Pllluuum (plum), pl

curiously is called L. B. of Jersey.
pllllllum pl pluuum P. P. pl Plllum.




Maréchal de la Cour has six, large and good. "One of the finest" (Dr
Pllluuum pl pl Plum plm plm, pllum plm plum. "Plm pl plm plllum" (Pl

Hogg).
Plum).




Napoleon has fourteen. "Second rate" (Barron).
Plluuuum plm plllllum. "Plluum plum" (Plluum).




Red Doyenné has eleven, chiefly French. The fruit is superior to White
Plm Plluuum plm pluuum, pluuuum Pluuum. Plm pllum pl plluuuum pl Pluum

D. (November).
P. (Plllllum).




Glou Morceau has twelve or thirteen, chiefly French. It is excellent in
Plum Pllluum plm pluuum pl plluuuum, pllllum Plllum. Pl pl pluuuuuum pl

a warm soil and site (November and December).
p plum plum plm plum (Pllluuum plm Pllluuum).







PEARS FOR PERRY
PLUUM PLM PLLUM




Our people are beginning to discover that we can and ought to make as
Plm pluuum plm pluuuuuum pl pllluuum plum pl plm plm pluum pl plum pl

good Cider and Perry as is made in any country. Mr Radclyffe Cooke in
plum Pllum plm Pluum pl pl plum pl plm plluuum. Pl Pllllllum Pluum pl

his "Cider and Perry" gives the following list:--
plm "Pllum plm Pllum" pllum plm plllluuum plum:--




  _Early Varieties._
  pLllum Plluuuuum.p




  Barland.
  Pluuuum.

  Moorcroft.
  Plllluuum.

  Red Pear.
  Plm Plum.

  Taynton Squash.
  Pluuuum Plluum.




  _Midsummer._
  pLllluuuum.p




  Langland
  Plluuuum

  Yellow and Black Huffcap.
  Plllum plm Pllum Pllllum.




  _Late._
  pLlum.p




  Blakeney Red.
  Plluuuum Plm.

  Butt Pear.
  Plum Plum.

  Oldfield.
  Pllluuum.

  Pine Pear.
  Plum Plum.

  Rock Pear.
  Plum Plum.




Sixty varieties appear in the List sent to the Pear Conference of the
Pllum plluuuuum plllum pl plm Plum plum pl plm Plum Plluuuuuum pl plm

R.H.S., October 1885.
P.P.P., Plluuum plum.







GATHERING AND STORING
PLLUUUUUM PLM PLLLUUM




Mid-Season and late pears should be gathered in dry weather as soon as
Plm-Pluuum plm plum pllum plluum pl pluuuuum pl plm pluuuum pl plum pl

they come easily from the tree. Lift gently, and gather by degrees as
plum plum plluum plum plm plum. Plum plluum, plm plluum pl pluuuum pl

the fruits ripen, those on south side first. Use padded baskets, and
plm plluum pllum, pllum pl pllum plum pluum. Plm pluuum pluuuum, plm

treat good fruits with loving care. Beware of piling a large quantity in
pllum plum pluuum plum pluuum plum. Plluum pl plllum p pllum pluuuuum pl

one basket, of turning or rolling out instead of handling by the stems.
plm plluum, pl pluuuum pl pllluum plm pluuuum pl plllllum pl plm pluum.

With high pyramids Heathman's combined ladder-steps may be needed. Pears
Plum plum plllllum Pluuuuum'p plllllum pluuum-pluum plm pl plluum. Pluum

should be put away quite dry in a dark and dry place, where the
pluuum pl plm plum pluum plm pl p plum plm plm pllum, pluum plm

temperature is as even as outside wooden or other walls, and thatch
pllllllllum pl pl plum pl pluuuum plluum pl pluum pluum, plm plluum

above can make it. Perfect and fine fruit should be wrapped in tissue or
pllum plm plum pl. Pllluum plm plum pllum plllum pl pluuuum pl plluum pl

other paper and placed singly on shelves or in shallow drawers or boxes.
pluum pluum plm pluuum plllum pl pllllum pl pl pluuuum pllllum pl pllum.

Boxes are excellent for late fruit. For storing they should be only deep
Pllum plm plllluuum plm plum pllum. Plm pllllum plum plllum pl plum plum

enough to hold one layer of fruit. Scott recommends clean bran, others
plllum pl plum plm pluum pl pllum. Pllum pllluuuuum pllum plum, plllum

dry silver sand, to put among the fruit so as to absorb any moisture.
plm plllum plum, pl plm pluum plm pllum pl pl pl plluum plm pluuuuum.

The ripening may be hastened by placing the fruit in a gently warmed
Plm pllluuum plm pl plllluum pl pllluum plm pluum pl p pluuum pluuum

room, or on hot water pipes in a greenhouse. "Sorts dry and tough
plum, pl pl plm pluum pluum pl p pllllluuum. "Pllum plm plm pluum

carefully ripened in warm drawers or on the shelves of a warm cupboard
pllllluum pllllum pl plum plluuum pl pl plm plluuum pl p plum plluuuum

become deliciously melting and rich. A heat from 60° to 70° is about the
plluum plllluuuuum pluuuum plm plum. P plum plum pl° pl pl° pl pllum plm

proper temperature" (Scott). Fruit pecked, bruised, or injured in any
plllum pllllllllum" (Pluum). Pluum plllum, pllluum, pl pluuuum pl plm

way should be kept apart and got rid of without storing. White tissue
plm plllum pl plum pllum plm plm plm pl pllluum pllluum. Pluum plllum

paper,[6] glazed on one side, the fruit resting on the glazed side with
pllum,[p] pluuum pl plm plum, plm pllum pllluum pl plm pluuum plum plum

another sheet on the top, the glazed side downwards, is useful where a
pllluum pluum pl plm plm, plm plllum plum plluuuuum, pl plllum pllum p

large amount of fruit is stored on shelves or trays. Orr's Patent Trays,
pluum plllum pl pluum pl plllum pl pllllum pl pluum. Plm'p Plllum Pluum,

sold by John P. White, Bedford, are excellent for storing. The trays fit
plum pl Plum P. Pluum, Pllluum, plm pllllluum plm pllllum. Plm pllum plm

on each other, and single trays are readily moved, so that the fruit on
pl plum pluum, plm plluum pllum plm plluuum pluum, pl plum plm pllum pl

each tray can be examined without being handled.
plum plum plm pl plllluum pllllum pllum pluuuum.







PROTECTION OF FRUIT
PLLLLLLUUM PL PLUUM




As trees must be protected against hares and rabbits, so must fruit be
Pl pllum plum pl pllllluum pluuuum pluum plm plluuum, pl plum pluum pl

from other enemies. Birds in some seasons are most destructive,
plum pllum plluuum. Pllum pl plum pllllum plm plum pllllllluum,

attacking the finest fruit, pecking a piece out near the stalk. Such
pluuuuuum plm pluuum pluum, pluuuum p pluum plm plum plm pluum. Plum

fruit soon decays. Wasps and blue-bottle flies feast on ripe or injured
pllum plum plluum. Pluum plm plum-pluuum pluum pluum pl plum pl pllluum

fruit. Mr Cheal in his "Fruit Culture" recommends that galvanised wire
pluum. Pl Pllum pl plm "Pluum Pluuuum" plllllllum plum plluuuuuum plum

netting be put over the whole ground. This may do for small plantations,
plluuum pl plm plum plm pluum plluum. Plum plm pl plm pllum plllluuuuum,

not for large, nor for places where the trees rise beyond 7 feet. Many
plm plm pluum, plm plm pluuum pluum plm pllum plum pluuum p plum. Plum

use the Cloister Fruit Protector of perforated celluloid. This protects
plm plm Plluuuum Pluum Pluuuuuum pl pllluuuuum pllllllum. Plum plllllum

peaches, apples, pears, etc., from birds, wasps and snails, but the cost
plluuum, pluuum, pluum, plm., plum pllum, pllum plm plluum, plm plm plum

is heavy. Muslin bags kept carefully from year to year are good. The
pl pllum. Plllum plum plum plluuuuum plum plum pl plum plm plum. Plm

fruit rests in them and grows. Nets made in different sizes might be put
pluum pllum pl plum plm pllum. Plum plum pl plluuuuum pluum pluum pl plm

over bush trees on stakes. They last if kept dry. The gardener, too,
plum plum pllum pl plluum. Plum plum pl plum plm. Plm pluuuuum, plm,

should have a gun and use it at dawn and daily. Messrs Bunyard recommend
plluum plum p plm plm plm pl pl plum plm pluum. Plllum Pluuuum pluuuuuum

a trap like a lobster pot made by Gilbertson & Page, Hertford, to be
p plum plum p pluuuum plm plum pl Pluuuuuuum & Plum, Plllllum, pl pl

baited with soaked bread. This trap takes birds alive. The house-sparrow
pluuum plum pluuum pluum. Plum plum pllum pluum pluum. Plm pllum-plluuum

and the bullfinch are the chief, but not the only, enemies. Robins,
plm plm pllllllum plm plm pllum, plm plm plm plum, pllllum. Plllum,

hedge-sparrows,[7] etc., might be released. Cut ivy carefully back, and
pluum-plllluum,[p] plm., pluum pl plllllum. Plm plm pllllllum plum, plm

encourage winter nets and sparrow clubs. Frost is another foe. Cordons
pluuuuuum pluuum plum plm pluuuum pllum. Pluum pl pluuuum plm. Plluuum

might be protected by hoops covered with tiffany, Russian canvas, mats,
pluum pl pllllluum pl pluum pluuuum plum pluuuum, Plluuum pluuum, plum,

or netting; bushes by nets, mats, etc. A movable coping over a wall is
pl plluuum; plllum pl plum, plum, plm. P pllllum plllum plum p plum pl

often useful. But if strong colonies of bees are close at hand, they
pllum plllum. Plm pl plllum plllllum pl plum plm pluum pl plum, plum

will rarely fail to fertilise some blossoms. In fine intervals bees come
plum plluum plum pl pllluuuum plum plllllum. Pl plum pllluuuum plum plum

out in crowds, and do great good. Queen wasps and wasps' nests should be
plm pl pluuum, plm pl pllum plum. Pluum pluum plm pllum' pllum plllum pl

sought and destroyed. Country children will find them for a small
plllum plm pllllluum. Pllllum plllluum plum plum plum plm p pluum

reward.
plllum.







WINTER AND SPRING WASHES
PLLLUM PLM PLLUUM PLUUUM




If the fruit-blossoms survive frost, cold winds and rain, enemies of a
Pl plm pllum-pluuuuum pllluum pllum, plum pluum plm plum, pllllum pl p

different kind await them. It is necessary to spray or wash the trees if
plluuuuum plum pluum plum. Pl pl plllluuum pl pllum pl plum plm pluum pl

these enemies are to be kept at bay.
pllum plluuum plm pl pl plum pl plm.




1. The following mixture is recommended by the Board of Agriculture: "To
p. Plm pllllllum pllluum pl pllllllluum pl plm Pluum pl Plluuuuuuum: "Pl

prepare caustic alkali wash, first dissolve 1 lb. of commercial caustic
pllluum pllluum plllum plum, pllum plllllum p pl. pl pllluuuuum pllluum

soda in water, then 1 lb. of crude potash (potashes or pearl ash of
plum pl pluum, plum p pl. pl pluum pluuum (plllllum pl pluum plm pl

oilmen) in water. When both have been dissolved, mix the two well
plluum) pl pluum. Plum plum plum plum pllluuuum, plm plm plm plum

together, then add ¾ lb. of soft soap or agricultural treacle, stir
plllluum, plum plm p pl. pl plum plum pl plluuuuuuuum pllluum, plum

well, and add sufficient water to make up 10 gallons." As the wash has a
plum, plm plm pllluuuuum pllum pl plum pl pl pluuuum." Pl plm plum plm p

burning effect on the hands, the sprayer should wear gloves and be
plluuum plllum pl plm pllum, plm plluuum plllum plum pluuum plm pl

careful. The Eclair hand-spraying pump, supplied by Clark & Co., 20
pllluum. Plm Pluuum plum-plluuuum plum, pllluuum pl Pllum & Pl., pl

Great St Helens, E. C., sends a spray like a mist. The cost is about
Pllum Pl Plllum, P. P., pllum p pllum plum p plum. Plm plum pl pluum

35s. We have used it for years, and the same firm repairs it well. This
plm. Pl plum plum pl plm pllum, plm plm plum plum plluuum pl plum. Plum

mixture with us, though easily sprayed, has not been a great success. If
pluuuum plum pl, plluum plluum pllllum, plm plm plum p pluum pluuuum. Pl

used, it should be applied in February, just before the buds open.
plum, pl plllum pl pluuuum pl Plllllum, plum plluum plm plum plum.




2. The Bordeaux Mixture is used for spraying by some, and is recommended
p. Plm Plllllum Pllllum pl plum plm plluuuum pl plum, plm pl plllluuuuum

by Messrs Bunyard. It is a good fungicide as well as insect-enemy. The
pl Plluum Pllluum. Pl pl p plum plluuuuum pl plum pl plllum-pllum. Plm

following is the receipt: Sulphate of copper 6 lbs., unslaked lime 4
pluuuuuum pl plm pllllum: Plllllum pl plllum p plm., plllllum plum p

lbs., water 50 gallons.
plm., pluum pl pluuuum.




Dissolve the sulphate of copper in a wooden vessel, pouring in
Pluuuuum plm plluuuum pl plllum pl p pluuum plllum, plluuum pl

sufficient water to cover the coarse bag in which the sulphate should
plluuuuuum pluum pl pluum plm pluuum plm pl pllum plm plluuuum pluuum

have been placed. Attach the bag by means of a string to a rod placed
plum plum plluum. Pluuum plm plm pl pllum pl p plllum pl p plm plllum

across the vessel, and let it hang in the water. In another vessel add
pluuum plm plluum, plm plm pl plum pl plm pllum. Pl pllllum plllum plm

water gradually to the lime until a thick paste is formed; when cool mix
pllum pllllluum pl plm plum pllum p pluum pluum pl plllum; plum plum plm

the two together in a third vessel, and add water up to 40, 50 or 60
plm plm pluuuuum pl p pluum plluum, plm plm pllum pl pl pl, pl pl pl

gallons. If the mixture is properly made, a clean knife blade held for
pllllum. Pl plm pluuuum pl plluuuum plum, p pllum pluum pluum plum plm

one minute in the solution should remain unchanged; if coated with
plm plllum pl plm plllluum plluum pluuum pllllllum; pl plluum plum

copper, add more lime until no copper adheres to the blade. Stir the
plllum, plm plum plum pllum pl pluuum pllluum pl plm pllum. Plum plm

mixture constantly while spraying and use it fresh. Spray the trees when
plluuum pllllluuum pllum plllllum plm plm pl pllum. Pllum plm pllum plum

the buds are first expanding. Messrs Bunyard (Fruit Catalogue, 1901-2)
plm plum plm pluum pluuuuuum. Pluuum Pllluum (Pluum Pllllluum, plum-p)

recommend "6 lbs. of pure sulphate of copper, 4 lbs. fresh unslaked
pllluuuum "p plm. pl plum plllllum pl plluum, p plm. pluum plllluum

lime, and 22 gallons of water, the sulphate to be put in a piece of
plum, plm pl pllllum pl pluum, plm pluuuuum pl pl plm pl p pluum pl

sacking or light cloth, and hung by a string from the top of a barrel
plluuum pl pllum pllum, plm plum pl p plllum plum plm plm pl p plllum

containing 18 gallons of water, a few inches below the surface so as to
pllluuuuum pl pllluum pl pllum, p plm plllum pluum plm plluuum pl pl pl

dissolve. Then slack 4 lbs. of fresh lime in as small a quantity of
pllluuum. Plum pluum p plm. pl pluum plum pl pl pllum p pluuuuum pl

water as possible, the water being added very slowly, until slaking is
pllum pl pllluuum, plm pluum pluum pllum plum pluuum, pluum pluuuum pl

completed; then slowly make up to 4 gallons. When cool, thoroughly stir
pllllluum; plum plllum plum pl pl p pllluum. Plum plum, plllllluum plum

and strain slowly the milk of lime into the copper solution, stirring
plm plllum plluum plm plum pl plum plum plm pluuum pluuuuum, pluuuuum

well while mixing for another minute or two; it is then fit for use as a
plum pluum plluum plm pllluum pluuum pl plm; pl pl plum plm plm plm pl p

winter spray. It should be used when freshly made, (_a_) Apply before
plllum pllum. Pl plllum pl plum plum pllluum plum, (plm) Pluum plluum

buds start to all fruit trees with the 22 gallons mixture. This can be
plum pllum pl plm pluum pllum plum plm pl pllluum pluuuum. Plum plm pl

diluted to a 30, 50 or 60 gallons mixture for spring or summer use.
plluuum pl p pl, pl pl pl pllllum pluuuum plm plluum pl plluum plm.

(_b_) Spray again just as the petals drop with the 60 gallons mixture.
(plm) Pluum pllum plum pl plm plluum plum plum plm pl pllluum plluuum.

If made and applied as above (within ten or twenty hours) it adheres
Pl plum plm pllluum pl pluum (plluum plm pl pluuum pllum) pl plluuum

closely to the wood and foliage; treacle need not be added." This
pllllum pl plm plum plm plluuum; pluuuum plum plm pl pluum." Plum

adhesion is of vast importance, as lime is abhorred by stem-borers
plllluum pl pl plum pluuuuuuum, pl plum pl pllluuum pl plum-pluuum

(_e.g._, the goat and leopard moths) as well as by all insects. The
(pl.p.p, plm plum plm pllllum pllum) pl plum pl pl plm pllluum. Plm

double application of lime is also helpful. In the United States Paris
pluuum pllllllluum pl plum pl plum pllllum. Pl plm Plluum Plluum Pllum

Green is sometimes added, and is no doubt useful; the proportion must be
Pllum pl plluuuuum pluum, plm pl pl pluum plllum; plm pllllluuum plum pl

very small.
plum pllum.




3. For many years I have painted my trees in winter with the following
p. Plm plum pluum P plum pllllum pl pllum pl plllum plum plm pllllllum

mixture: one bushel of lime, half a bushel of soot, a quart of paraffin,
pllluum: plm pluuum pl plum, plum p plllum pl plum, p pluum pl plluuuum,

a pail of cow dung, a pail of clay; melted grease is sometimes added,
p plum pl plm plum, p plum pl plum; plllum plllum pl plluuuuum pluum,

and the whole worked into a paint and then put on the trees. Treacle
plm plm pluum plllum plum p pllum plm plum plm pl plm pllum. Plluuum

might be substituted for the cow dung and grease. This has proved a
pluum pl pllllllllum plm plm plm plum plm plllum. Plum plm pluuum p

valuable preventive. The lime and soot gradually falling off, leave the
plllluum plluuuuuum. Plm plum plm plum pluuuuuum pllllum plm, pluum plm

bark clean, and enrich the soil below. But painting is a much longer
plum pluum, plm plllum plm plum pluum. Plm plluuuum pl p plum plluum

process than spraying with (1) or (2). Apples have subsequently been
pllllum plum plllluum plum (p) pl (p). Pluuum plum plluuuuuuuum plum

sprayed with Paris Green, and pears might also be.
pllluum plum Pllum Pllum, plm pllum pllum plum pl.







INSECT ENEMIES
PLLUUM PLLLUUM




1. The pear oyster scale is very injurious, especially on walls, if not
p. Plm plum plllum pluum pl plum pllluuuum, pllllluuum pl pluum, pl plm

checked at an early stage. The covering of the female is like a small
pllllum pl pl pluum pluum. Plm pllluuum pl plm plluum pl plum p pluum

oyster scale, hence the name. Scrape off any rough bark in winter, and
plllum pluum, pluum plm plum. Plllum plm plm pllum plum pl pluuum, plm

apply the alkali or one of the other washes as a preventive. In May and
pllum plm plllum pl plm pl plm pluum pluuum pl p plllluuuum. Pl Plm plm

June affected parts might be brushed with ¼ lb. of soft soap in a
Plum plllluum pluum pllum pl pllllum plum p pl. pl plum plum pl p

gallon of water. Tobacco or lime water might also be applied. Paraffin
plluum pl pllum. Pluuuum pl plum pllum pluum plum pl pllluum. Plluuuum

largely diluted may be used, but is dangerous in excess. Messrs Rivers
pluuuum plluuum plm pl plum, plm pl pllluuuum pl pluuum. Plluum Plluum

in "The Miniature Fruit Garden" (p. 144) say: "Washing the parts
pl "Plm Pllllllum Pllum Plluum" (p. plm) plm: "Pllluum plm pllum

affected with a mixture of soot, lime and sulphur will remove the
pluuuuum plum p pllluum pl plum, plum plm pllllum plum pluuum plm

roughness and restore the tree to health; the above mixed with skim milk
plllluuum plm pluuuum plm plum pl plllum; plm pluum pllum plum plum plum

is more enduring." As a believer from experience in soot and lime, I
pl plum plllluum." Pl p pluuuuum plum plllluuuum pl plum plm plum, P

prefer this receipt, if the trees were not washed in winter.
plluum plum pllluum, pl plm pllum plum plm plluum pl plluum.




2. The Blister Moth makes brown blisters on the leaves. It may be kept
p. Plm Pllllum Plum pllum pluum plllluum pl plm pluuum. Pl plm pl plum

from laying eggs on the tree by syringing occasionally with soap-suds.
plum plllum plum pl plm plum pl plluuuuum pllllllluuum plum plum-plum.

Spraying with Paris Green just after the fruit is formed will do good.
Plllllum plum Pllum Pluum plum pluum plm pluum pl plllum plum pl plum.

Half an ounce of best paste to 10 or 12 gallons of water, with some
Plum pl pllum pl plum pllum pl pl pl pl pllllum pl pllum, plum plum

fresh lime added, will suffice for small gardens. Spray only in fine
pluum plum pllum, plum pllllum plm pluum pllllum. Pllum plum pl plum

weather just after the petals have fallen. Paris Green is arsenic, and
pluuuum plum pluum plm plllum plum plluum. Pllum Pluum pl pllluum, plm

may poison bees if used too soon. The sprayer should avoid breathing
plm pluuum plum pl plum plm plum. Plm plluuum plluum pllum pllluuuum

over the mixture when making it up, should use gloves, work from
plum plm pllluum plum plluum pl pl, pluuum plm pluuum, plum plum

windward, and not allow any spray to reach his flesh. A second spraying
plluuuum, plm plm pllum plm pluum pl pluum plm pllum. P plllum plluuuum

for this and other insects is often useful. Blundell, Spence & Co.
plm plum plm pllum pluuuum pl pluum pluuum. Pluuuuum, Pluuum & Pl.

(Ltd.), Hull, supply good paste. Price ½ lb. 1s., less for larger
(Plm.), Plum, plluum plum pllum. Pllum p pl. pl., plum plm pluuum

quantities. See also No. 3.
plllllllum. Plm plum Pl. p.




3. The Pear Leaf Mite causes small blisters on the leaves, but not the
p. Plm Plum Plum Plum pluuum pluum plllluum pl plm pluuum, plm plm plm

tunnels or galleries of the Blister Moth. It winters in the bud scales,
pllllum pl plluuuuum pl plm Pllllum Plum. Pl plluuum pl plm plm plluum,

and emerges in the spring. If the trees are washed and syringed, the
plm pllluum pl plm plluum. Pl plm pllum plm pluuum plm pluuuuum, plm

attacks will be lessened. In (2) and (3) collect the blistered leaves as
pllluum plum pl plluuuum. Pl (p) plm (p) plluuum plm plluuuuum plllum pl

soon as seen, burn them and spray or syringe at once.
plum pl plum, plum plum plm pluum pl plluuum pl plum.




Miss Ormerod recommends a dilute paraffin emulsion sprayed over infested
Plum Pluuuum pllllluuum p plllum pluuuuum pluuuuum pllllum plum plllllum

leaves. Dissolve ¼ lb. of soft soap in a gallon of water, add this
pluuum. Plluuuum p pl. pl plum plum pl p pluuum pl pluum, plm plum

while boiling to two gallons of paraffin, churn the whole with syringe
pllum plluuum pl plm pluuuum pl plluuuum, pluum plm pllum plum pllluum

or small pump for ten or fifteen minutes to make a perfect mixture. For
pl pllum plum plm plm pl pllllum pllllum pl plum p plluuum plluuum. Plm

spraying add 12 gallons of water to each gallon of the emulsion. Stir
plllllum plm pl pllluum pl pllum pl plum plllum pl plm pluuuuum. Plum

well while spraying, and try the mixture on a branch or two lest it be
plum pluum plllluum, plm plm plm pluuuum pl p pluuum pl plm plum pl pl

too strong; if so, add more water. This emulsion is good for the Blister
plm plluum; pl pl, plm plum pllum. Plum plllllum pl plum plm plm Pllllum

Moth and the Slug-worm.
Plum plm plm Plum-plum.




4. The Slug-worm is so called from the similarity of the larva of this
p. Plm Plum-plum pl pl plluum plum plm plllllllum pl plm pluum pl plum

sawfly to a small black slug. The worms feed on the upper surface of the
plluum pl p pllum pllum plum. Plm pluum plum pl plm pluum pllllum pl plm

leaves. Dust with quick lime two or three days in succession, or syringe
plllum. Plum plum pllum plum plm pl pluum plum pl pllluuuuum, pl pluuuum

with strong soap-suds and some tobacco water. Clean with pure water in a
plum plllum plum-plum plm plum pllllum pluum. Pllum plum plum pluum pl p

few days. The paraffin emulsion (No. 3) might also be used. Quick-lime
plm plum. Plm pluuuuum plluuuum (Pl. p) pllum plum pl plum. Pluum-plum

scattered around the roots and forked three or four inches into the soil
pllluuuum plllum plm pllum plm plllum pllum pl plum plluum plum plm plum

may destroy their cocoons. But beware of excess. The remedy may be worse
plm plluuum pluum plluuum. Plm pluuum pl pluuum. Plm plluum plm pl pluum

than the disease.
plum plm pluuuum.




Insects that attack leaves will also eat the skin of the young fruits if
Pllluum plum plllum pluuum plum plum plm plm plum pl plm pllum pluuum pl

conveniently placed for them.
plllluuuuuum pluuum plm plum.




5. The Pear Sucker is a jumping plant-louse which early in the season
p. Plm Plum Pluuum pl p plluuum pllum-pllum pllum pluum pl plm pluuum

sucks the juices of the tree about the axils of the leaves. They are
pluum plm pluuum pl plm plum pllum plm pllum pl plm pluuum. Plum plm

covered with the exudations of the sap, which often drops on the ground.
pllllum plum plm pllluuuuum pl plm plm, pllum pluum pluum pl plm plllum.

The visits of the ants should call attention to this pest. Syringe well
Plm plluum pl plm plum pluuum plum plluuuuum pl plum plum. Pluuuum plum

with soft soap and water, ½ lb. to 4 gallons, and add tobacco water.
plum plum plum plm pllum, p pl. pl p pllllum, plm plm pllllum pluum.

Remove all rough bark (their hiding-places) in winter.
Plllum plm pllum plum (pllum plluum-plluum) pl pluuum.




6. The Pear Gnat Midge (_Diplosis pyrivora_) may readily ruin a crop if
p. Plm Plum Plum Pluum (pLlluuuum plllluuum) plm pluuuum plum p plum pl

unchecked. It is a recent importation among us. Both here and in the
pllllluum. Pl pl p plluum plllluuuuum pluum pl. Plum plum plm pl plm

United States it is spreading with alarming rapidity. It is a small
Pluuum Plluum pl pl plllluuum plum pluuuuum plllllum. Pl pl p pllum

two-winged fly, with a black body having lines of yellow hair. The
plm-pluuum plm, plum p pluum plum plllum pluum pl plllum plum. Plm

female pierces the flower-buds and lays her eggs in them. These soon
plllum pllllum plm pluuum-plum plm plum plm plum pl plum. Pllum plum

hatch, and the young tiny grubs eat their way into the embryo fruit,
pluum, plm plm pluum plum pllum plm pluum plm plum plm plluum pluum,

keeping to the fleshy part, leaving the core and seeds alone. The pears
pllllum pl plm plluum plum, plluuum plm plum plm pluum pllum. Plm pluum

turn brown, and then black. Cut them open, you will notice maggots. The
plum pllum, plm plum pluum. Plm plum plum, plm plum plluum pluuuum. Plm

fruit bursts or falls, the maggots form silken cocoons in the soil in
pluum pluuum pl pllum, plm pllllum plum plllum plluuum pl plm plum pl

which they pupate, and remain till the blossoms begin to expand next
pluum plum pluuum, plm pluuum plum plm pllluuum pluum pl plluum plum

spring. Mr J. Fraser (editor of _Gardening World_) has kindly sent these
plllum. Pl P. Plluum (plluum pl pLllllllum Plluum) plm plllum plum pllum

details, and recommends (1) that the injured fruit be gathered and
pllllum, plm plllllluum (p) plum plm plluuum pluum pl plllluum plm

burnt; (2) that two inches of the ground beneath the trees should be
pluum; (p) plum plm pluuum pl plm pluuum plluuum plm pllum plluum pl

taken up and burnt; (3) that kainit should be distributed round the
pllum pl plm pluum; (p) plum pluuum plluum pl pllllllluum pluum plm

trees in autumn. Kainit is said to keep off wireworm, and is recommended
pluum pl plluum. Pluuum pl plum pl plum plm plluuuum, plm pl pllllllluum

in the United States as a preventive against this pest. I think the
pl plm Plllum Plllum pl p plllllluum pluuuum plum plum. P pluum plm

mixture No. 2 or No. 3 should also be used, as insects may be deterred
pllllum Pl. p pl Pl. p pluuum plum pl plum, pl pllluum plm pl pllluuum

by the scent. Lime and soot spread over the ground in winter would
pl plm pllum. Plum plm plum pluuum plum plm pluuum pl plllum pluum

probably do good.
pllluuum pl plum.




7. Weevils devour leaves, buds, young shoots, even the skin of fruit.
p. Pluuuum pluuum pluuum, plum, pluum pluuum, plum plm plum pl pllum.

They feed by night, and may be shaken into a cloth off bushes. Lime and
Plum plum pl pluum, plm plm pl pluuum plum p pluum plm plluum. Plum plm

soot may lessen their attacks, either as a wash No. 2 or 3, or spread
plum plm plluum pluum pllllum, pluuum pl p plum Pl. p pl p, pl pluuum

lightly round the stems, or as a powder over the leaves.
pllllum pllum plm pluum, pl pl p plluum plum plm pluuum.




A special bellows for distributing any dry powder (as sulphur, lime,
P plluuum pllluum plm plllluuuuuum plm plm plluum (pl pllllum, plum,

soot, etc.) can be had from De Luzy Fréres, 44A Harold Street,
plum, plm.) plm pl plm plum Pl Plum Plllum, PLM Plluum Pluuum,

Camberwell. The price is 7s. 6d., carriage paid.
Pllllluuum. Plm pllum pl pl. pl., plluuuum plum.




As a general rule insecticides should be applied in the evening or after
Pl p pluuuum plum plllluuuuuum plluum pl pllllum pl plm pluuuum pl pluum

the sun is down. Early and late visits to the trees are best for finding
plm plm pl plum. Pluum plm plum pluuum pl plm pllum plm plum plm pllllum

them feeding.
plum pllluum.




8. _Wasps_, after a dry spring, may be very numerous. Their nests often
p. pLluuum, pluum p plm plllum, plm pl plum plllluum. Pluum pluum pllum

hold many thousands. Large numbers may be destroyed thus: place a
plum plum plluuuuum. Pllum pluuuum plm pl plllluuum plum: pllum p

hand-light upon bricks, make a small hole in the top of this, and over
plum-pluum plum pluuum, plum p pluum plum pl plm plm pl plum, plm plum

it put a sound and closely-fitting one. Fruit cut open should be thrown
pl plm p pluum plm pllllum-plluuum plm. Pluum plm plum plllum pl plllum

beneath the lower light. The wasps often go up through the hole, and do
plluuum plm pllum pllum. Plm pllum pllum pl pl plluuum plm plum, plm pl

not return. Their buzzing attracts others. Destroy by burning sulphur
plm pluuum. Pluum pllluum plllluum pluuum. Plluuum pl pllluum plluuum

beneath, or by drowning. A glass destroyer on a similar principle is
plluuum, pl pl plluuuum. P pllum pllllllum pl p pllluum plluuuuum pl

sold in china-shops. Open-mouthed bottles filled with beer sweetened or
plum pl pluum-pluum. Plum-plluuum pluuuum plllum plum plum pllllluum pl

water sweetened with treacle will lure many to destruction. Queen wasps
pluum pllluuuum plum pllluum plum plum plum pl plllluuuuum. Pluum pluum

in spring and wasp-nests must be noticed and destroyed. Fasten a piece
pl plluum plm plum-pluum plum pl pllluum plm pllllluum. Plluum p pluum

of cloth soaked in a solution of cyanide of potassium (a small quantity
pl pllum pluuum pl p pllluuum pl pllluum pl pllllluum (p pluum plllluum

dissolved in hot water), and put it in the nest; all the wasps will be
plluuuuum pl plm pluum), plm plm pl pl plm plum; plm plm pllum plum pl

killed. Dig out the grubs. This is a deadly poison, and should be
plluum. Plm plm plm pluum. Plum pl p plllum plllum, plm pluuum pl

handled only by an expert. The emanation from the solution must not be
pllluum plum pl pl plllum. Plm plluuuuum plum plm pllluuum plum plm pl

breathed. Tar does almost as well. A nest may be partly dug and flooded
pllluuum. Plm plum plluum pl plum. P plum plm pl pluuum plm plm plluuum

at night. A clean wine bottle (half-filled with water) inserted in the
pl pluum. P pllum plum pluuum (plum-plllum plum pllum) pllluuum pl plm

place of the nest (the top of the neck level with the surface of the
pluum pl plm plum (plm plm pl plm plum pluum plum plm pllllum pl plm

ground) will probably capture all stragglers. Some make a heap of
pluuum) plum pluuuuum plluuum plm plllluuuum. Plum plum p plum pl

injured fruit and syringe the wasps with nicotine soap, eight ounces to
pllllum pluum plm pllluum plm pllum plum plllllum plum, pllum plllum pl

a gallon of hot or cold water. This plan kills quickly, but the fruit no
p pluuum pl plm pl plum pllum. Plum plum pluum plluuum, plm plm pluum pl

longer attracts. Squibs a half-inch in diameter, three inches long, made
pluuum pllluuum. Plluum p plum-plum pl plllluum, pllum pluuum plum, plum

of gunpowder moistened with water, one-fourth of flowers of sulphur
pl plllluuum pluuuuuum plum pllum, plm-plllum pl plluuum pl pllllum

added, mixed into a paste, wrapped in brown paper, and tied at one end,
pluum, pllum plum p pllum, pllluum pl pluum pllum, plm plum pl plm plm,

are good for the work. After dark, light the squib, push the lighted end
plm plum plm plm plum. Pluum plum, pllum plm pllum, plum plm pllllum plm

into the hole, put a sod over, and ram it in to confine the fumes. In a
plum plm plum, plm p plm plum, plm plm pl pl pl plluuum plm pluum. Pl p

few minutes dig up and destroy the grubs, then fill up the hole. If the
plm pllllum plm pl plm plluuum plm pllum, plum plum pl plm plum. Pl plm

nest is high up, attach the squib to a stick, light, and keep it close
plum pl plum pl, plluum plm pllum pl p pluum, pluum, plm plum pl pllum

(while burning) to the entrance. Young gardeners enjoy this squibbing
(pluum pllllum) pl plm pluuuuum. Pllum plluuuuum pluum plum plluuuuum

process.
plluuum.




[Illustration: FAN-SHAPED PEAR TREE, ONE YEAR AFTER GRAFTING, SHOWING
[Plluuuuuuuum: PLM-PLLLUM PLUM PLUM, PLM PLUM PLUUM PLLLLLUM, PLLLUUM

THE LENGTH OF RESULTING SHOOTS]
PLM PLLUUM PL PLLLLLLUM PLLLUM]







THINNING FRUIT
PLLLLUUM PLLUM




If you wish for fine fruit or a crop every year, trees must not be
Pl plm plum plm plum pluum pl p plum pllum plum, pluum plum plm pl

overworked, especially in their earlier days. Thin whenever there is a
pllluuuuum, pllluuuuum pl pluum pllluum plum. Plum pllluuum pluum pl p

large crop, but do not begin too soon, as some fruits are not fully
pluum plum, plm pl plm pllum plm plum, pl plum plluum plm plm pllum

fertilised, and may fall. Never let fruits touch each other. As the
plllluuuum, plm plm plum. Pluum plm plluum pllum plum pluum. Pl plm

fruits mature, give any grub-eaten to the pigs, and use inferior pears
plllum plluum, plum plm plum-pluum pl plm plum, plm plm plllluum pllum

for cooking purposes. Grub-eaten fruit must not lie on the ground.
plm pllllum pluuuuum. Plum-pllum pllum plum plm plm pl plm pluuum.







SUMMER, WINTER, BRANCH AND ROOT PRUNING; LIFTING
PLUUUM, PLUUUM, PLUUUM PLM PLUM PLUUUUM; PLLLLUM




Summer pruning rests chiefly on the principle that the trees should
Plllum pluuuum pllum plluuum pl plm plllluuum plum plm pllum plllum

always be open more or less while in leaf to the sun, the light, and the
plllum pl plum plum pl plum pllum pl plum pl plm plm, plm pluum, plm plm

air. So cut out _at any time_ branches that crowd the tree or threaten
plm. Pl plm plm plm plm pllum pluuuuum plum pllum plm plum pl pluuuuum

to cross other boughs. Cut from below, so as not to tear bark away.
pl pllum pluum pluuum. Plm plum pluum, pl pl plm pl plum plum plum.

Pears do not bleed from being cut. In July, when the growing time is
Pllum pl plm pluum plum pluum plm. Pl Plum, plum plm pluuuum plum pl

almost over, cut back to six or seven leaves any strong shoots springing
plllum plum, plm plum pl plm pl pllum plluum plm plllum plllum pllllllum

from a main branch, or in cordons, from the stem. If they shoot again,
plum p plum pluuum, pl pl pllllum, plum plm plum. Pl plum pluum pluum,

they should again be stopped. In late autumn or winter look over the
plum pluuum pllum pl pllluum. Pl plum pluuum pl plluum plum plum plm

trees, reduce the shoots to two or three eyes, taking care not to remove
pllum, plllum plm plluum pl plm pl pllum plum, plluum plum plm pl plllum

bloom buds. Early in the summer, and at any time, remove from the trunk
pluum plum. Pllum pl plm pluuum, plm pl plm plum, pluuum plum plm pluum

and boughs any shoots threatening to crowd or shade the centre. Keep the
plm plluum plm pluuum plllllluuum pl pllum pl pluum plm plllum. Plum plm

tree (especially the centre) open to sun and light. Even large standards
plum (plllllluum plm plluum) plum pl plm plm pllum. Plum pllum pllllllum

are improved by summer pruning. Tree-pruners should be used where the
plm plluuuum pl plluum pluuuum. Plum-plluuum pluuum pl plum pllum plm

shoots are out of hand-reach. Root pruning is also essential in strong
pluuum plm plm pl plum-pluum. Plum plluuum pl plum plluuuuum pl pluuum

soils where trees are too rank in growth and produce wood rather than
pluum pluum pllum plm plm plum pl plllum plm pllllum plum pluuum plum

fruit. Trees of all kinds may be root pruned with advantage in such
pluum. Pllum pl plm pluum plm pl plum pluuum plum plluuuuum pl plum

soils, and also where the lower soil is bad. Open a trench 20, 30 or 40
pllum, plm plum pluum plm pllum plum pl plm. Plum p plllum pl, pl pl pl

inches from the stem (according to size of tree) until the coarse roots
plluum plum plm plum (plllluuum pl plum pl plum) pllum plm pluuum pluum

are reached. One-third the distance from the stem that the trees are in
plm plluuum. Plm-pllum plm pllluuum plum plm plum plum plm pllum plm pl

height is a rule suggested by a recent writer.[8] Cut back such roots
plluum pl p plum plllluuum pl p plluum plllum.[p] Plm plum plum pluum

with a sharp knife; drive the spade under the stem (if possible) to cut
plum p pluum pluum; pllum plm pluum pllum plm plum (pl pluuuuum) pl plm

the tap roots, and any others going downwards. Open a trench half round
plm plm pllum, plm plm pluuum pluum pllllllum. Plum p plluum plum pluum

one year, and if necessary attack the other half next year. Be careful
plm plum, plm pl pllllllum plluum plm pllum plum plum plum. Pl pllllum

not to prune too hard at first, or to injure the fibres. Begin in
plm pl pllum plm plum pl pllum, pl pl plllum plm plllum. Pluum pl

mid-October. If the ground below is very dry, give warm or rain water.
plm-Plluuum. Pl plm plluum pllum pl plum plm, plum plum pl plum pllum.

Fruit blooms will probably appear next autumn. If young trees grow very
Pllum pluuum plum plllllum plluum plum plluum. Pl pluum pluum plum plum

luxuriantly, they may be lifted at the end of October with advantage.
pllllluuuum, plum plm pl plllum pl plm plm pl Pllluum plum pluuuuuum.

Cut the tap root and replant at once. Exposure of the roots is dangerous
Plm plm plm plum plm pllluum pl plum. Plllllum pl plm pllum pl pllllllum

to vitality. Persons who prune their trees only in winter usually grow
pl pluuuuum. Plluuum plm pllum pllum pllum plum pl plluum plluuum plum

wood rather than fruit.
plum pluuum plum pllum.







MARKETING AND PACKING
PLLUUUUUM PLM PLUUUUM




Marketing depends greatly on the neighbourhood. Colour, size and quality
Plluuuuum pllluum plluuum pl plm plllllllluuum. Plllum, plum plm pllluum

ensure a sale everywhere, but only a constant supply of good fruit will
plllum p plum plllluuuum, plm plum p pluuuuum plllum pl plum pluum plum

attract retail dealers or the London salesmen. Poor stuff will not sell
pllluum pluuum pllllum pl plm Plllum pllluuum. Plum pluum plum plm plum

at a good market. The early fruits may be sent in flats (with tops) lent
pl p plum plllum. Plm pllum pluuum plm pl plum pl pluum (plum plum) plum

by the salesmen. But these are often lost and involve trouble and
pl plm plllluum. Plm pllum plm pllum plum plm plluuum pllllum plm

expense. Non-returnable boxes to contain half a bushel or a bushel are
plluuum. Plm-pllllluuum pllum pl pllllum plum p plllum pl p plluum plm

now in use, but such boxes are too large for the better fruits.
plm pl plm, plm plum pluum plm plm pllum plm plm plllum pluuum.

Californian pears come to us in good condition in boxes containing each
Pllllllllum pluum plum pl pl pl plum plllluuum pl pllum pllluuuuum plum

a few dozen fruits, each fruit being separately packed in tissue paper.
p plm pllum plluum, plum pluum pluum pllllluuum plluum pl plluum pllum.

French pears are also sent in boxes evenly graded and packed in one,
Plluum pluum plm plum plum pl pllum plllum plluum plm pluuum pl plm,

two, or three layers. Small boxes bought by the gross are not dear. The
plm, pl pllum plluum. Pluum pllum plllum pl plm pluum plm plm plum. Plm

following list is taken from Watson, vol. v. p. 369.
plluuuuum plum pl pllum plum Plluum, plm. p. p. plm.




                                                  Gross.
                                                  Pluum.

  Length.           Width.          Depth.        S.   D.
  Pluuum.           Pluum.          Pllum.        P.   P.




  11-½ in.         10-½ in.        7-½ in.        32   6
  pl-p pl.         pl-p pl.        p-p pl.        pl   p

  15    "           6    "         7-½  "         31   6
  pl    "           p    "         p-p  "         pl   p

  15    "          11    "         7    "         50   0
  pl    "          pl    "         p    "         pl   p

  15    "          13    "         4    "         53   6
  pl    "          pl    "         p    "         pl   p

  16    "           8    "         4    "         28   6
  pl    "           p    "         p    "         pl   p




                                             --BLACKNELL.
                                             --PLUUUUUUM.




In the larger boxes, strong paper should be put round inside to prevent
Pl plm pluuum pllum, plluum pllum plllum pl plm pluum plllum pl pllluum

bruising. All fruit, however sent, should be even in size, of good
pluuuuum. Plm pllum, plluuum plum, plllum pl plum pl plum, pl plum

quality, not diseased or bruised. Pears are more attractive when well
pluuuum, plm pllluuum pl pllllum. Pluum plm plum pluuuuuuum plum plum

packed than apples. Placed with their heads against the two opposite
plllum plum plluum. Plllum plum pluum pllum plluuum plm plm pluuuuum

sides in two rows with the stems toward each in a box of suitable size,
pllum pl plm plum plum plm pluum pluuum plum pl p plm pl plllllum plum,

they may be made to fit closely so as to travel safely. The better and
plum plm pl plum pl plm pluuuum pl pl pl plluum plluum. Plm plluum plm

later sorts should be bedded in wood-wool and wrapped in tissue paper,
pllum pluum plllum pl pluuum pl plum-plum plm pluuuum pl pluuum pllum,

white or coloured, with a sheet of paper between each layer, and the
pluum pl pluuuuum, plum p pllum pl pluum pllluum plum pllum, plm plm

whole firmly packed. Loose fruit are sure to suffer. The contents of
pllum plluum plllum. Pluum pluum plm plum pl pluuum. Plm pllluuum pl

each box must be made so firm as not to be moved in the slightest
plum plm plum pl plum pl plum pl plm pl pl pluum pl plm pllllluum

degree. The G.E. and other railway companies provide cheap boxes of a
pluuum. Plm P.P. plm pluum plluuum plluuuuum plluuum pllum pllum pl p

suitable size and allow similar boxes also to be used if nailed. They
plllllum plum plm pllum pllllum pluum plum pl pl plum pl plllum. Plum

must not be corded. Wire hinges and a fastening in front have been
plum plm pl plllum. Plum plllum plm p pllllluum pl pllum plum plum

suggested. Nos. 3, 4 and 5 (G.E.R.), 2s. 6d., 3s., and 4s. per dozen are
plllluuum. Plm. p, p plm p (P.P.P.), pl. pl., pl., plm pl. plm pluum plm

the best sizes. They will hold 18 to 24 fruits. On G.E.R. 20 lbs. can be
plm plum pluum. Plum plum plum pl pl pl pluuum. Pl P.P.P. pl plm. plm pl

sent for 4d. to London; 1d. extra is charged for every additional 5
plum plm pl. pl Plllum; pl. pllum pl pllllum plm pllum plllllluum p

lbs.; delivery is included. Such boxes could be readily stamped with the
plm.; plluuuum pl pllluuum. Plum pluum pluum pl pluuuum pllllum plum plm

grower's name. The companies assist growers by publishing the names of
plluum'p plum. Plm pllluuuum pluuum pluuuum pl plllllluum plm pluum pl

those who have produce to sell.
pluum plm plum pllllum pl plum.







PEARS IN AN UNHEATED ORCHARD HOUSE
PLUUM PL PL PLUUUUUM PLLUUUM PLUUM




With skill and care pears may be successfully grown in an unheated
Plum pllum plm plum pluum plm pl pllluuuuuuum pluum pl pl pllluuum

orchard house. They may have apples for their companions, but not
pllluum pllum. Plum plm plum plllum plm pllum plllllluum, plm plm

cherries, peaches, plums or apricots. The most convenient house is a
plllluum, pllluum, pluum pl pllluuum. Plm plum pluuuuuuum pllum pl p

span-roof from 20 to 24 feet wide, 10 to 12 feet high to the ridge of
plum-plum plum pl pl pl plum plum, pl pl pl plum plum pl plm pllum pl

the roof, and 4-½ to 6 feet at the sides. Ventilators should run round
plm plum, plm p-p pl p plum pl plm pluum. Pllllluuuum plluum plm pluum

the sides 18 inches wide, and hinged at bottom; the top ventilators
plm pllum pl plllum plum, plm pluuum pl pluuum; plm plm plllllluuum

should be 3 feet wide by 15 inches, 7-½ feet apart, on alternate sides
pluuum pl p plum plum pl pl plluum, p-p plum pllum, pl plllluuum pluum

of the ridge (Mr T. Somers Rivers, in _Royal Horticultural Journal_,
pl plm pllum (Pl P. Plllum Plllum, pl pLllum Pllluuuuuuuum Plllllum,

vol. xxv., parts i., ii.). A good length for this breadth is 50 to 60
plm. plm., pllum p., pl.). P plum pluuum plm plum plluuum pl pl pl pl

feet. A half-inch wire protection over the ventilators and an inner
plum. P plum-plum plum plllluuuum plum plm pllluuuuuum plm pl pllum

wired door may be as necessary (as a protection against birds), as it is
pluum plum plm pl pl pllllllum (pl p pllluuuuum pllluum pllum), pl pl pl

for cherries. There should be a path made hard with clay and gravel
plm pluuuuum. Pllum plllum pl p plum plum plum plum plum plm plllum

through the centre. Some advise a concrete floor; others prefer to
pllllum plm pluuum. Plum pluuum p plllluum pluum; plluum plluum pl

plunge their pots inside as well as out. A lean-to house from 6 to 9
plluum pllum plum plllum pl plum pl plm. P plum-pl pluum plum p pl p

feet wide against a south wall may be of great service. Cordons can be
plum plum pllluum p pllum plum plm pl pl pllum plluuum. Pluuuum plm pl

grown on the wall, or planted outside and trained indoors, like vines,
pluum pl plm plum, pl pluuuum plluuum plm pluuuum pllluum, plum pluum,

near the glass. Trees in pots can also be placed there. With either
plum plm pllum. Pllum pl plum plm plum pl plluum pluum. Plum pluuum

house, some ground to which the trees in pots can be removed when all
pllum, plum pluuum pl pllum plm pllum pl plum plm pl pluuuum plum plm

danger from frost is over is required. It should be warm and well
plllum plum pllum pl plum pl plllllum. Pl plluum pl plum plm plum

sheltered. Maiden plants may be put into 8 or 10-inch pots in September,
pllllluum. Plluum plluum plm pl plm plum p pl pl-plum plum pl Pllluuuum,

and cut back later on, but time is saved by purchasing older trees of
plm plm plum pluum pl, plm plum pl pllum pl plllllluum pluum pluum pl

nurserymen; 15 to 18-inch pots will be needed in a few years. If there
pllllluuum; pl pl pl-plum plum plum pl plllum pl p plm pluum. Pl pllum

is a concrete floor, the pots must be raised on bricks, that surplus
pl p pluuuuum pllum, plm plum plum pl plluum pl plllum, plum pllllum

water may pass off. If the pots are plunged, care must be taken that the
pllum plm plum plm. Pl plm plum plm pllllum, plum plum pl pluum plum plm

water can run away. In June take them into the open air, plunge them in
pluum plm plm plum. Pl Plum plum plum plum plm plum plm, plllum plum pl

the ground within three inches of the rim, to keep them warm and moist,
plm plluum plllum pluum plllum pl plm plm, pl plum plum plum plm pluum,

and to protect the trees from the wind. After the fruit is gathered,
plm pl pluuuum plm pluum plum plm plum. Pluum plm pluum pl pluuuuum,

the trees should as a rule be repotted. Prepare a fresh pot with broken
plm pluum plllum pl p plum pl pllluuum. Plluuum p pllum plm plum plluum

flints, etc., at the bottom, place a piece of turf on them, next a
plllum, plm., pl plm plllum, pllum p pluum pl plum pl plum, plum p

handful of soot, and some fine soil on that. Have ready some new soil
pllluum pl plum, plm plum plum plum pl plum. Plum pllum plum plm plum

made chiefly of good turfy loam, to which old mortar rubbish or road
plum plluuum pl plum pluum plum, pl pllum plm pluuum pllluum pl plum

scrapings, wood ashes, guano, and bone-dust have previously been added.
plluuuuum, plum pllum, pllum, plm plum-plum plum pllluuuuum plum pluum.

The whole should be well mixed. Then take the tree out with a ball of
Plm pllum plllum pl plum pllum. Plum plum plm plum plm plum p plum pl

earth, remove the soil all round the ball with a pointed stick, shorten
pllum, plllum plm plum plm pluum plm plum plum p pllluum pllum, plluuum

the rootlets around, and cut any coarse roots away with sharp pruning
plm pllluuum plluum, plm plm plm plllum pllum plum plum pluum pluuuum

scissors. Place the topmost roots an inch and a half below the rim, then
pluuuuum. Pllum plm pluuuum pllum pl plum plm p plum pluum plm plm, plum

shake this compost among the roots, finally ramming the soil hard down
pluum plum plluuum pluum plm pluum, plluuum pllluum plm plum plum plum

into the pot. In two or three days soak the ball with rain or warm
plum plm plm. Pl plm pl pllum plum plum plm plum plum plum pl plum

water. The trees are better in the house until re-established. Sprinkle
pluum. Plm pluum plm plllum pl plm pllum pluum pl-plllllluuum. Plluuuum

the leaves daily with soft water. Close and keep the house moist. The
plm plluum pluum plum plum pllum. Pllum plm plum plm pllum pluum. Plm

pots can then be taken out and plunged once more. The house will
plum plm plum pl pllum plm plm plluuum plum plum. Plm pluum plum

probably be wanted. They must be carefully protected in severe weather;
pluuuuum pl plllum. Plum plum pl plllluuum pllllluum pl plllum pluuuum;

place ashes, earth, or manure around them. Another plan is to lay the
pluum pllum, pluum, pl pluuum plluum plum. Pllllum plum pl pl plm plm

pots on the ground and cover them with mats. Take them back to the house
plum pl plm plluum plm pluum plum plum plum. Plum plum plum pl plm pluum

before the buds begin to move. Shape the trees in winter, and summer
pluuum plm plum pllum pl plum. Pllum plm pluum pl pluuum, plm plluum

prune as may be necessary. They require syringing as well as rich
pluum pl plm pl pluuuuuum. Plum pllllum pllluuuum pl plum pl plum

feeding when carrying a crop. A mixture of poultry droppings or night
pllluum plum plluuuum p plum. P plluuum pl pllllum pluuuuuum pl pllum

soil (half a barrowful) added to the same amount of sifted soil and of
plum (plum p pllllllum) pluum pl plm plum plluum pl pluuum plum plm pl

wood ashes, with a peck of soot and a peck of bone dust, all made into a
plum pluum, plum p plum pl plum plm p plum pl plum plum, plm plum plum p

compost a few days before use, is a strong surface-dressing. A layer
pllllum p plm plum plllum plm, pl p plllum pluuuum-pluuuuum. P pllum

half an inch thick when the fruit is swelling should be given two or
plum pl plum pllum plum plm pluum pl plluuuum pluuum pl pluum plm pl

three times, and be watered down with a fine rose. Messrs Bunyard
pluum pllum, plm pl pluuuum plum plum p plum plum. Pluuum Pllllum

recommend cow manure mixed with malt combings, and (as an artificial)
pllllllum plm plluum pllum plum plum plllluum, plm (pl pl plllllllum)

sulphate of ammonia.
plllluum pl pluuuum.




Liquid manure (not strong nor cold) must also be given two or three
Plluum pluuum (plm plluum plm plum) plum plum pl pllum plm pl pluum

times a week. The fruit must be thinned, and the trees never
pllum p plum. Plm pluum plum pl plluuum, plm plm pluum pllum

over-cropped. Large trees in 16 or 18-inch pots need the annual renewal
plum-pllluum. Pluum pllum pl pl pl pl-plum plum plum plm pluuum pllllum

of the soil rather than repotting. The flowers should be fertilised by
pl plm plum plllum plum plllluuum. Plm pluuuum plluum pl plllllluum pl

the admission of bees, by shaking the trees in fine weather about
plm pllllluum pl plum, pl pllluum plm pluum pl plum pllllum pllum

mid-day, or by passing a light brush gently over the blooms from flower
plm-plm, pl pl plluuum p pllum pllum plluum plum plm plluum plum plluum

to flower. Change of diet as well as air, and frequent syringing with
pl plllum. Plllum pl plum pl plum pl plm, plm pllluuum pllllluum plum

clear water (say Messrs Bunyard) are very necessary ("Modern Fruit
pluum pllum (plm Plllum Plluuum) plm plum pllllluum ("Plluum Pllum

Culture," p. 23). But a dry atmosphere is best when pear and plum trees
Plluuum," p. pl). Plm p plm plllllluum pl plum plum plum plm plum pluum

are in flower. Syringing in the open air is good for all trees in dry
plm pl plllum. Plllluuum pl plm plum plm pl plum plm plm pllum pl plm

weather after the fruit has set. The following is a good wash to be
pllllum pluum plm pluum plm plm. Plm pllluuuum pl p plum plum pl pl

applied when the trees are brought into the house in January or
pllluum plum plm pllum plm pluuuum plum plm pllum pl Plluuum pl

February. Put a peck of fresh soot into a coarse sack, and hang it in a
Pluuuuum. Plm p plum pl pllum plum plum p plluum plum, plm plum pl pl p

tub containing 30 or 40 gallons of water; leave it there for eight or
plm pllluuuuum pl pl pl pllllum pl pluum; pluum pl pllum plm pllum pl

ten days; then remove it and throw in half a peck of fresh lime. Mix
plm plum; plum plluum pl plm pllum pl plum p plum pl pllum plum. Plm

well, then take off the surface scum. A decoction of quassia made by
plum, plum plum plm plm plluuum plum. P plluuuuum pl pllluum plum pl

boiling 2 or 3 ozs. of chips to a gallon of water for twenty-five or
pllluum p pl p plm. pl pluum pl p plllum pl pllum plm pluuum-plum pl

thirty minutes (or steeped in soft water for twenty-four hours) added to
plluum pllluum (pl plluuum pl plum pluum plm pluuum-plum pluum) pllum pl

the above is a useful insecticide. Syringe with this before the buds
plm pllum pl p plluum pllllllluum. Plluuum plum plum plluum plm plum

appear, but not again until the fruit is set, then once a week, or
plluum, plm plm pluum pluum plm pllum pl plm, plum plum p plum, pl

oftener, as occasion may require.
plluuum, pl pluuuuum plm plluuum.




_N. B._--Never repot until you have learnt that the ball and roots of
PL. P.p--Pluum pluum pllum plm plum plluum plum plm plum plm pllum pl

the tree are thoroughly moist. Soak the ball, if necessary, for twenty
plm plum plm plllluuuum pluum. Plum plm plum, pl pluuuuuum, plm plluum

minutes. In surface-dressing leave a space near the tree open, that you
pllluum. Pl plluuum-plllllum pluum p pluum plum plm plum plum, plum plm

may see what water is wanted. Never give _strong_ liquid manure. As
plm plm plum pllum pl plllum. Pluum plum pllluuum plllum plluum. Pl

severe frosts and dull weather sometimes occur in March when the trees
plluum pluuum plm plum pllluum pluuuuuum pllum pl Pllum plum plm pllum

are in bloom, some hot-water pipes (two rows of 4-inch) may be added if
plm pl pllum, plum plm-pluum pllum (plm plum pl p-plum) plm pl pluum pl

means allow. A span-roof house should run north and south. Only the
pluum pluum. P plum-plum pllum plluum plm pluum plm pllum. Plum plm

choicest sorts should be deemed worthy of a house, such as Bon Chrétien,
pluuuuum pllum plluum pl plluum plllum pl p pllum, plum pl Plm Pluuuuum,

Souvenir du Congrès, B. Brown, B. Superfin, Louise Bonne, B. Hardy,
Plllllum pl Pluuuum, P. Pluum, P. Pllluuum, Plllum Pllum, P. Pllum,

Maréchal de la Cour, Marie Louise, D. du Comice, Josephine de Malines,
Plllluum pl pl Plum, Pllum Plllum, P. pl Pluuum, Pllllluum pl Plluuum,

Winter Nelis, Passe Crassanne, Bergamotte Esperen, and others.
Pluuum Pluum, Pllum Plluuuuum, Plllluuuum Pllllum, plm plllum.




[Illustration: ESPALIER TRAINED TREE CUT BACK FOR GRAFTING--THE GRAFTS
[Plllllllluum: PLLUUUUM PLLLUUM PLUM PLM PLUM PLM PLUUUUUM--PLM PLUUUM

INSERTED AND CLAYED OVER]
PLUUUUUM PLM PLLLUM PLUM]







OLD STANDARDS
PLM PLLLLUUUM




Old Standards that have ceased to produce good fruit should be cut down
Plm Pllllluum plum plum plllum pl pluuuum plum pllum plllum pl plm plum

to within a few feet of the stem. The young wood will soon bear better
pl plluum p plm plum pl plm plum. Plm pluum plum plum plum plum pluuum

quality. The trunk should be well cleaned and washed.
plluuum. Plm pllum plllum pl plum pllluum plm plluum.







IRRIGATION
PLLLLLUUUM




Wherever possible, irrigation should be applied in dry weather. An
Pluuuuum plllllum, plllllluum pluuum pl pluuuum pl plm pluuuum. Pl

aero-motor pump or engine of some kind may raise the water to a tank. It
plum-pluum plum pl plluum pl plum plum plm pluum plm pllum pl p plum. Pl

should be allowed to run over the ground for some distance to be warmed
pluuum pl pluuuum pl plm plum plm pluuum plm plum plllluum pl pl plluum

and aerated. Apply in strong soil only when the growing season is over.
plm pllluum. Pllum pl pluuum plum plum plum plm pllluum plllum pl plum.







LABELS
PLLUUM




Labels add greatly to the interest and pleasure of a garden. Acme labels
Plllum plm pllluum pl plm pluuuuum plm pllluuum pl p plluum. Plum plllum

are popular. Those sent out by John Smith, Label Factory,
plm pllluum. Pllum plum plm pl Plum Pluum, Pllum Pluuuum,

Stratford-on-Avon, are also good. They may be attached by his copper
Plllluuum-pl-Plum, plm plum plum. Plum plm pl plluuuum pl plm plllum

wire, but those of the form of the rose labels with the name affixed at
plum, plm pluum pl plm plum pl plm plum pluuum plum plm plum plluuum pl

the top of a long spike are less likely to be lost.
plm plm pl p plum pllum plm plum plluum pl pl plum.







AMERICAN PEARS
PLLLLLUM PLLUM




The chief pear in the States is the Bartlett, corresponding with our Bon
Plm pllum plum pl plm Plllum pl plm Plluuuum, plllllllluuum plum plm Plm

Chrétien. A schoolmaster named Wheeler, of Aldermaston (Berks), raised
Pluuuuum. P pllllllluuum pluum Pluuuum, pl Pllluuuuuum (Pllum), plllum

it about 1770. A nurseryman named Williams brought it out. In 1799 one
pl pluum plum. P plluuuuuum pluum Plllluum pllllum pl plm. Pl plum plm

Enoch Bartlett, of Dorchester, near Boston (U.S.), introduced it into
Pllum Plllllum, pl Plluuuuuum, plum Plluum (P.P.), plllluuuum pl plum

America, and now it is cultivated so widely that it is on sale for three
Plluuum, plm plm pl pl plluuuuuum pl plluum plum pl pl pl plum plm pllum

or four months in the year, and exported also to England. Seckle, a good
pl plum pluuum pl plm plum, plm plllllum plum pl Pllluum. Plluum, p plum

October pear, but small, we have from the States; the original tree is
Pllluum plum, plm pluum, pl plum plum plm Plluum; plm plllluum plum pl

said to be near Philadelphia, about 100 years old. Clapp's Favourite
plum pl pl plum Plllllllluum, pllum plm pllum plm. Pllum'p Plllluuum

(August) comes from Dorchester, Massachusetts; Dana's Hovey, "a
(Plllum) pllum plum Plllluuuum, Plluuuuuuuuum; Plum'p Pluum, "p

veritable sweetmeat" (November and January), also comes from the same
plluuuuum pllluuuum" (Pluuuuum plm Pluuuum), plum pluum plum plm plum

State. It is sometimes called Winter Seckle. Most of our good sorts are
Pluum. Pl pl plllluuum plluum Plluum Plluum. Plum pl plm plum pllum plm

grown in the U.S., and Californian pears are now coming to us in great
pluum pl plm P.P., plm Pllluuuuuum pllum plm plm plluum pl pl pl pluum

quantities. They are sent in wooden boxes, properly graded and packed.
pllluuuuum. Plum plm plum pl pluuum pllum, pllluuum plluum plm pluuum.

Every fruit is in paper, with the name of the grower on it, and the name
Pllum pluum pl pl pluum, plum plm plum pl plm plluum pl pl, plm plm plum

of the variety on each box. The excellent quality and careful packing
pl plm pllluum pl plum plm. Plm pllllluum pllllum plm pluuuum pllluum

ensure a good demand at a high price. Good American sorts are Lawson or
plllum p plum plllum pl p plum pluum. Plum Pluuuuum pllum plm Pluuum pl

Comet, Block's Acme, Sugar Pear, Bloodgood, and others. Our growers may
Pluum, Pluum'p Plum, Pllum Plum, Pllllllum, plm pluuum. Plm pllllum plm

learn a useful lesson from Californian pears in the London market.
pluum p plllum pluuum plum Pllllllllum pluum pl plm Plluum plluum.







NOTES ON VARIETIES
PLLUM PL PLLUUUUUM




Emile d'Heyst is said to be equal to Marie Louise in quality, to be
Pllum p'Pluum pl plum pl pl pllum pl Pluum Plluum pl pllllum, pl pl

hardier, and to be a better bearer. It is not a grand grower on the
pllllum, plm pl pl p plllum pluuum. Pl pl plm p pllum plllum pl plm

Quince, nor does the fruit keep long (October, November).
Pluuum, plm plum plm pllum plum plum (Plluuum, Plllluum).




Althorp Crassanne is often a first-rate pear. Mr Knight (very eminent a
Pluuuum Pllllllum pl pluum p pllum-plum plum. Pl Plllum (plum pllluum p

century ago) called it the best of all. It lasts from October to
plluuum plm) pluuum pl plm plum pl plm. Pl pllum plum Pluuuum pl

December. The tree is hardy, and a good bearer, but the fruit is hardly
Plluuuum. Plm plum pl pllum, plm p plum plluum, plm plm pluum pl pluuum

large enough for exhibition.
pllum plluum plm plllluuuum.




Brockworth Park, almost identical with Bonne d'Ezée, was once a pear of
Plllluuuum Plum, plllum pllllllum plum Pluum p'Plum, plm plum p plum pl

great repute, being large and showy, but the flesh is coarse
pllum pluuum, pllum pluum plm pllum, plm plm pluum pl plluum

(November).
(Plllllum).




B. Bosc is largely grown in Kent as a market pear. It succeeds on a
P. Plum pl pluuuum pllum pl Plum pl p plluum plum. Pl pluuuuum pl p

chalky, warm soil. It is sometimes "first rate," Barron (October,
plllum, plum plum. Pl pl pluuuuuum "pluum plum," Plllum (Plluuum,

November).
Pllluuum).




Beurré Mortillet (new) (D. G., _i.e._ Double Grafted) is a large and
Plllum Plluuuuum (plm) (P. P., pl.p.p Plllum Pllluum) pl p pluum plm

handsome September pear; gather before it is ripe.
pluuuuum Plllluuum plum; pluuum plllum pl pl plum.




Conference (Rivers), comparatively new, is large, handsome, and a good
Pllluuuuum (Plllum), plllllluuuuum plm, pl pllum, pllluuum, plm p plum

bearer, but not first rate (November).
plluum, plm plm pluum plum (Pluuuuum).




Fondante de Thirriott, or Thiriot (new), grows and bears freely, fruit
Plllllum pl Pllllluum, pl Pllllum (plm), pllum plm pllum pluuum, pllum

large and good. "First quality," Barron (November and December).
pluum plm plum. "Pllum plluuum," Pluuum (Plllllum plm Pluuuuum).




Madame Treyve is a good September pear, red and yellow, in chalky soil.
Pluuum Plllum pl p plum Pllllluum plum, plm plm plluum, pl pluuum plum.

It bears freely, but is not first rate.
Pl pllum pluuum, plm pl plm pluum plum.




Bon Chrétien should be gathered gradually before it is ripe, and laid on
Plm Pluuuuum plluum pl plllllum pluuuuuum plluum pl pl plum, plm plum pl

the shelves. It is said that you must sit up all night to eat it just at
plm pluuuum. Pl pl plum plum plm plum plm pl plm pluum pl plm pl plum pl

the right time.
plm pluum plum.




D. du Comice is regarded as the best all round Dessert pear grown. Marie
P. pl Plllum pl plllllum pl plm plum plm pluum Pluuuum plum pllum. Pluum

Louise is tender and unreliable. Thompson's, some think, the best for
Plllum pl plluum plm plllllllum. Plllllum'p, plum pluum, plm plum plm

flavour. It is smaller, and bears best on the Pear Stock.
pllllum. Pl pl plluuum, plm pllum plum pl plm Plum Pllum.




Marie Benoist is recommended in many lists as a good late pear, but my
Pluum Pluuuum pl plluuuuuuum pl plum pllum pl p plum plum plum, plm pl

experience has not been favourable. It is late and large when it bears.
pllllluuum plm plm plum pllluuuuum. Pl pl plum plm pllum plum pl pllum.




General Todleben is large and handsome, but usually only fit for cooking
Pllllum Plluuuum pl pluum plm pluuuuum, plm plluuum plum plm plm plluuum

(October and November).
(Pluuuum plm Plllluum).




Princess (new) is a late Louise Bonne, large and good; the tree bears
Plllluum (plm) pl p plum Plllum Pluum, pluum plm plum; plm plum pllum

well.
plum.




Beurré or Doyenné Sterkmans is a medium-sized, late pear (December,
Pluuum pl Pllluum Pllluuuum pl p plllum-pluum, plum plum (Plllllum,

January, February), flushed bright red on one side; "second rate,"
Plluuum, Plluuuum), pllluum pluuum plm pl plm plum; "plluum plum,"

Barron.
Plluum.




Beurré de Jonghe is a good Christmas Pear, but a slow grower, and needs
Plllum pl Plluum pl p plum Pluuuuuum Plum, plm p plum plllum, plm pluum

a wall or orchard house.
p plum pl pluuuum pllum.




Beurré Bachelier is large, handsome, a good bearer, but quite second
Plluum Pllllluum pl pluum, pllluuum, p plum pluuum, plm pllum pluuum

rate (November).
plum (Plluuuum).




Hacon's Incomparable is large and handsome, but second rate (November).
Pllum'p Pllllluuuuum pl pluum plm plllllum, plm plluum plum (Pllluuum).




Swan's Egg was a popular pear fifty years ago for market, as the tree is
Plum'p Plm plm p pluuuum plum pluum pluum plm plm pluuum, pl plm plum pl

hardy, bears well, and the fruit is good, but rather small (October).
pluum, pllum plum, plm plm pluum pl plum, plm pluuum pllum (Pllllum).




Noveau Poiteau is a good exhibition pear, of vigorous growth, and bears
Plllum Pluuuum pl p plum pllllluuum plum, pl pllluuum plluum, plm pllum

well; the fruit is excellent but does not keep well (November).
plum; plm pluum pl pluuuuuum plm plum plm plum plum (Pllluuum).




Pitmaston Duchess is an increasingly popular pear for market. It is very
Pllluuuum Pllllum pl pl pllluuuuuuum pluuuum plum plm plllum. Pl pl plum

large, and on a cordon often handsome; in warm seasons of good quality,
pluum, plm pl p pluuum pluum plluuuum; pl plum pllluum pl plum pluuuum,

golden yellow when ripe. Bush trees on Quince bear well (October,
pluuum pluuum plum plum. Plum pluum pl Plluum plum plum (Pluuuum,

November).
Plllllum).




Duchesse d'Angoulême was a great favourite formerly, the tree growing
Pluuuuum p'Plllluuum plm p pluum pllllllum pluuuuum, plm plum plluuum

and bearing well. Fruit often very large, but coarse and gritty. Crossed
plm pllllum plum. Pluum pllum plum pllum, plm plllum plm pluuum. Pllllum

with Glou Morceau it has given us a child Pitmaston superior to the
plum Plum Pluuuum pl plm pluum pl p pllum Pllllllum plluuuum pl plm

parents.
pluuuum.




Josephine de Malines is pronounced by Mr Barron to be "always good."
Plllluuum pl Pluuuum pl plllllllum pl Pl Pluuum pl pl "plluum plum."

Hardy, and bears well on Quince (January-April).
Pluum, plm pllum plum pl Plllum (Pllluum-Pllum).




Fouqueray is a large, good pear, an improved B. Bachelier (October).
Pluuuuuum pl p pllum, plum plum, pl plluuuum P. Plluuuuum (Plluuum).




B. Hardy is a great favourite with birds; they prefer and peck the best
P. Pluum pl p pluum pllllluum plum pluum; plum pluuum plm plum plm plum

fruit.
pllum.




B. Alexandre Lucas is large and handsome; pyriform, the tree is a good
P. Pllluuuum Pllum pl pllum plm plllluum; plluuuum, plm plum pl p plum

grower (October, November).
plllum (Pluuuum, Plllluum).




Triomphe de Vienne is a large and handsome September pear tree (D. G.),
Pllluuum pl Pluuum pl p pluum plm plllllum Pluuuuuum plum plum (P. P.),

grows and bears well, comparatively new.
pluum plm pluum plum, plllllllluuum plm.




Marguerite Marillat, a very large, handsome September pear, bears well:
Pllluuuuum Plluuuum, p plum pluum, plllllum Pllluuuum plum, pllum plum:

comparatively new.
plllllluuuuum plm.




Michaelmas Nelis is a new variety, of which a specimen fruit has just
Plllllluum Pluum pl p plm pllllum, pl pllum p plluuuum pluum plm plum

been sent me by Messrs Bunyard. It is as delicious as the Winter Nelis
plum plum pl pl Pluuum Plluuum. Pl pl pl plluuuuum pl plm Pluuum Pllum

pear (December and January).
plum (Plluuuum plm Pllluum).







RECEIPTS (from Cassell's "Dictionary of Cookery," slightly
PLLLLUUM (plum Pllluum'p "Pluuuuuuum pl Pluuuum," pllluuum

abridged)
plluuuum)




1. _To bake Pears._--Rub half-a-dozen large hard pears with a soft
p. pLm plum Pllum.p--Plm plum-p-pllum pluum plum pluum plum p plum

cloth. Put them on a buttered baking tin into a slow oven, and let them
pluum. Plm plum pl p pluuuuum plluum plm plum p plum plum, plm plm plum

bake gently for five or six hours. When tender, they are done enough,
plum plllum plm plum pl plm pllum. Plum plluum, plum plm plum plluum,

and are excellent if eaten with sugar. Probably cost 4d. Sufficient for
plm plm plllluuum pl pllum plum pllum. Pluuuuum plum pl. Plluuuuuum plm

three or four persons.
pllum pl plum plluuum.




2. _Another way._--Pare very smoothly a dozen large baking pears. Halve
p. pLuuuuum plm.p--Plum plum plluuuum p pluum pluum plllum pllum. Pluum

them, take out the cores, put them side by side into a well-brightened
plum, plum plm plm pluum, plm plum plum pl plum plum p plum-pllluuuuum

block-tin saucepan with a closely fitting cover. Pour over as much cold
pluum-plm pllluuum plum p pluuuum pllluum pllum. Plum plum pl plum plum

water as will cover them, add the thin rind of a small lemon, a
pluum pl plum pllum plum, plm plm plum plum pl p pluum pluum, p

tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, an inch of stick cinnamon, and
pllluuuuuuuum pl pluuuuum pllum pluum, pl plum pl pllum plluuuum, plm

fifteen grains of allspice. Put on cover, place the dish in a gentle
pluuuum plllum pl pllluuum. Plm pl pluum, pluum plm plum pl p plluum

oven, let it remain until the pears are tender, add a little white wine
plum, plm pl plllum pllum plm pllum plm plluum, plm p plllum pluum plum

if liked. If such a saucepan is used, no cochineal will be needed. Time
pl pluum. Pl plum p plllllum pl plum, pl pllllllum plum pl plllum. Plum

to bake six hours. Probable cost 1s. 8d. Sufficient for eight or ten
pl plum plm pluum. Plllluum plum pl. pl. Pllluuuuum plm pllum pl plm

persons.
pllllum.




_To Preserve Pears._--Gather the pears before they are quite ripe, pare,
pLm Plluuuum Pluum.p--Plluum plm pllum pluuum plum plm pluum plum, plum,

halve, core and weigh them, put into a deep jar, allowing 3 lbs. of
pluum, plum plm pluum plum, plm plum p plum plm, plluuuum p plm. pl

sugar to every 4 lbs. of pears, and just enough water to moisten the
pluum pl pllum p plm. pl pluum, plm plum plllum pluum pl pllllum plm

sugar, and to keep the fruit from burning. The strained juice and
pluum, plm pl plum plm pluum plum pluuuum. Plm plluuuum pluum plm

thinly-pared rind of a lemon and an inch of whole ginger may be put with
pluuum-pluum plum pl p pluum plm pl plum pl pllum pluuum plm pl plm plum

every 2 lbs. of pears. Place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and
pluum p plm. pl pllum. Pluum plm plm pl p plllluum pl pllluum pllum, plm

let the fruit steam gently for six or seven hours. Turn it into jars,
plm plm pluum pllum pluuum plm plm pl pluum pluum. Plum pl plum plum,

and at once fasten these down securely, and store in a dry, cool place.
plm pl plum pluuum pllum plum pllluuum, plm pllum pl p plm, plum pluum.

Two or three drops of cochineal added to the pears after they are cooked
Plm pl pluum pluum pl pllllluum pllum pl plm pllum pllum plum plm plllum

improve their appearance. Pears preserved thus will not probably keep
pllluum pluum plluuuuuum. Pluum plllluuum plum plum plm plluuuum plum

good more than three or four months. Probable cost 8d. per lb.
plum plum plum pluum pl plum plllum. Plllllum plum pl. plm pl.




_Pears Preserved, Red._--If in preserving pears it is wished to give a
pLluum Plllluuum, Plm.p--Pl pl plllllluum pllum pl pl pluuum pl plum p

deep pink tinge to the fruit and syrup, use a perfectly bright block-tin
plum plum pluum pl plm pluum plm pluum, plm p pllllluum plllum pllum-plm

saucepan. If this is not convenient, add three or four drops of
plluuuum. Pl plum pl plm pllluuuuum, plm pllum pl plum pllum pl

cochineal to the syrup or a small proportion of Red Currant or Red
pluuuuuum pl plm pllum pl p pllum plllllllum pl Plm Pllllum pl Plm

Gooseberry juice.
Pllllluuum pluum.




_Pears Stewed._--Pare, core, and halve eight or ten good-sized pears,
pLuuum Plllum.p--Plum, plum, plm pluum pluum pl plm plum-pluum pllum,

leaving on the stalks or not, according to taste; put them into a tinned
plluuum pl plm pluuum pl plm, pllluuuum pl pluum; plm plum plum p pluuum

saucepan, with 6 ozs. of loaf sugar, 6 cloves, 6 whole allspice, ¾ of
plllluum, plum p plm. pl plum pllum, p pluuum, p pllum plllllum, p pl

a pint of water, and a glassful of port (?). Let them boil as gently as
p plum pl pluum, plm p plluuuum pl plum (?). Plm plum plum pl plluum pl

possible until quite soft but not broken. Lift them out, put them on a
plluuuum pllum pllum plum plm plm pluuum. Plum plum plm, plm plum pl p

glass dish, and when the syrup is cold, strain it over them. Some cream
pluum plum, plm plum plm pluum pl plum, plluum pl plum plum. Plum pllum

or custard added is a great improvement. Time to stew the pears from
pl pllllum pluum pl p pluum pllllllluum. Plum pl plum plm pluum plum

two-and-a-half to three hours. Probable cost 1s. 4d. Sufficient for five
plm-plm-p-plum pl pluum pluum. Pluuuuum plum pl. pl. Plluuuuuum plm plum

or six persons.
pl plm pluuuum.




For Compôte of Pears, Pears Frosted and Iced, Pears Pickled, and other
Plm Plluuum pl Pluum, Pluum Plluuum plm Plum, Pluum Pluuuum, plm pllum

such receipts, see same dictionary.
plum plluuuum, plm plum plllllllum.




For another method of preserving, see plums.
Plm pllluum plluum pl plllllluum, plm pluum.




_To Preserve Pears_ (from an old author).--Pare them very thinly and
pLm Pluuuuum Pluuum (plum pl plm plluum).--Plum plum plum pluuum plm

simmer in a thin syrup; let them lie a day or two in the syrup. Make the
pluuum pl p plum pluum; plm plum plm p plm pl plm pl plm pluum. Plum plm

syrup richer, and simmer again, and repeat this process till they are
pllum plllum, plm plllum pluum, plm pluuum plum pllllum plum plum plm

clear; then drain and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little
pluum; plum pllum plm plm plum pl plm plm pl p plum plum p plum plllum

time. They may be kept in syrup, which makes them more moist and rich,
plum. Plum plm pl plum pl pluum, pllum pllum plum plum pluum plm plum,

and dried as wanted. Jargonelles are said to be the best for this
plm pluum pl pluuum. Plllllluuum plm plum pl pl plm plum plm plum

purpose.
pllluum.




_To Bake Pears._--These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste
pLm Plum Pllum.p--Pluum plum plm pl pl p plum plum; plm plum pluum

better than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw are
pluuum plum pluuum, plm pllum pllum plum plm pllum plm pl plm plm plm

best for baking. Wipe, but _do not_ pare, and lay them on tin plates,
plum plm plluum. Plum, plm plm plum plum, plm plm plum pl plm plluum,

and bake in a slow oven. When soft enough to bear pressure, flatten them
plm plum pl p plum plum. Plum plum pluuum pl plum plluuuum, plluuum plum

with a silver spoon. When done thorough, put them on a dish. They should
plum p pluuum pllum. Plum plum pllluuum, plm plum pl p plum. Plum pluuum

be baked three or four times, and very gently.
pl pllum pllum pl plum pluum, plm plum pluuum.




_To Stew Pears._--Pare, halve or quarter large pears, according to their
pLm Plum Pllum.p--Plum, pluum pl pllluum pluum pllum, pluuuuuum pl pluum

size; throw them into water, as the skin is taken off, before they are
plum; pllum plum plum pluum, pl plm plum pl pllum plm, plluum plum plm

divided to prevent them turning black. Pack them round a block tin
pllluum pl plluuum plum pluuuum pllum. Plum plum pluum p pllum plm

stewpan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them pretty sweet;
plluuum, plm plllllum pl plum pllum plum pl plum plum plum plluum pluum;

add lemon-peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked; just cover
plm pluum-plum, p pllum pl plm, plm plum plllllum pllluum; plum pllum

them with water, and add a little red wine. Cover them close and stew
plum plum pluum, plm plm p pluuum plm plum. Pllum plum pllum plm plum

three or four hours; when tender, take them out, and strain the liquor
pluum pl plum pluum; plum plluum, plum plum plm, plm pluuum plm pluuum

over them.
plum plum.




FOOTNOTES:
PLLLLLLUM:




[1] _See_ Cheal, "Fruit Culture," p. 8.
[p] pLuum Pllum, "Pluum Plluuum," p. p.




[2] Rivers.
[p] Plllum.




[3] See an excellent article on Pears in new edition of Thompson's
[p] Plm pl pluuuuuum plluuum pl Pllum pl plm pllluum pl Pluuuuum'p

"Gardeners' Assistant," by R. L. C.
"Plllluuum' Plluuuuum," pl P. P. P.




[4] See elaborate account in the "Watson's G.'s Assistant," vol. iv. p.
[p] Plm pllluuuum pllllum pl plm "Pluuum'p P.'p Pluuuuuum," plm. pl. p.

116.
plm.




[5] See "Miniature Fruit Garden," p. 64.
[p] Plm "Pllllluum Pluum Plluum," p. pl.




[6] See Watson, vol. v., "Storing."
[p] Plm Pluuum, plm. p., "Pllluum."




[7] Hedge-sparrow smaller, duller in colour, eggs bluish green, builds
[p] Pluum-pllllum plluuum, plllum pl plluum, plum plllum pluum, plllum

in hedges; house-sparrow, eggs white, with brown spots, nests in trees
pl plluum; pllum-plluuum, plum pllum, plum pllum pluum, pluum pl pllum

and buildings.
plm plllluuum.




[8] John Wright, "Profitable Fruit Growing."
[p] Plum Plluum, "Pllluuuuum Pluum Pluuuum."













PLUMS AND DAMSONS
PLUUM PLM PLLLUUM







What is the finest fruit in the world? The secretary and the
Plum pl plm plllum pllum pl plm pllum? Plm pllluuuum plm plm

superintendent of the R.H.S. (in vol. xxvi., parts ii. and iii. of the
plluuuuuuuuuum pl plm P.P.P. (pl plm. plum., pllum pl. plm plm. pl plm

_Journal of the R.H.S._) agree in thinking that Goldoni, a yellow
pLuuuuum pl plm P.P.P.p) pllum pl plllllum plum Pllllum, p plluum

nectarine raised from a peach by the late Francis Rivers is, when
plllluuum plllum plum p pluum pl plm plum Pllluum Pluuum pl, plum

properly ripened, without exception, the finest fruit in the world. It
plllllum pllluum, pllllum pluuuuuum, plm plllum pllum pl plm pluum. Pl

has not been my privilege to taste it, yet I venture to think that a
plm plm plum pl plllluuum pl pllum pl, plm P pluuuum pl pluum plum p

thoroughly ripened plum of one of the best varieties must come near it.
plluuuuuum plluuum plum pl plm pl plm plum plllluuum plum plum plum pl.

The incessant demand for greengages is a testimony to the popularity of
Plm pllluuuum plluum plm pllluuuuum pl p plllluuum pl plm plllllllum pl

the plum as a dessert fruit. Next to the apple, it is the most useful of
plm plum pl p plluuum pllum. Plum pl plm pluum, pl pl plm plum plluum pl

our fruits.
plm plluum.







ORIGIN OF THE PLUM
PLLUUM PL PLM PLUM




Eminent botanists are of opinion that our plums and damsons have had
Plluuum plluuuuum plm pl pllllum plum plm pluum plm pllllum plum plm

their origin in the _Prunus Communis_ found in various parts of Europe
pluum plluum pl plm pLuuuum Pllluuuum pllum pl pluuuum pluum pl Pluuum

and Asia, but others consider that the _Prunus Domestica_ is the parent
plm Plum, plm plluum pluuuuum plum plm pLuuuum Plllllluum pl plm plluum

of the majority. Mr A. H. Pearson of Chilwell, Nott. (_v. Journal of the
pl plm plllluum. Pl P. P. Pllllum pl Plluuuum, Plum. (pl. Pluuuum pl plm

R.H.S._, vol. xxi. part ii.), thinks that "the blood" of more than one
P.P.P.p, plm. plm. plum pl.), plluum plum "plm pluum" pl plum plum plm

species is found in the plums of the present day, as varieties closely
pllllum pl pllum pl plm pluum pl plm pllllum plm, pl plluuuuum plluuum

resembling one another demand different stocks for their well-being when
plllluuuum plm pllllum pluuum plluuuuum plllum plm pllum plum-pluum plum

propagated by grafting. The cherry plum is _Prunus myrobalana_, and of
plllllllum pl pllluuum. Plm plllum plum pl pLlluum pllllllluum, plm pl

this species there are several varieties, as St Etienne, Mirabelle
plum pllluum pluum plm pluuuum pluuuuuum, pl Pl Pllluum, Pllllllum

Précoce, _i.e._ the Early Mirabelle, Mirabelle Petite, and others.
Plluuum, pl.p.p plm Pluum Plllluuum, Plluuuuum Plllum, plm plllum.

Rivers' Early Prolific is said to be of the same race.
Pluuum' Pllum Pllluuum pl plum pl pl pl plm plum plum.




The Bullace is classed by some botanists under the _Prunus Instititia_,
Plm Plluuum pl pluuuum pl plum pllluuuum pllum plm pLlluum Plluuuuuuum,

and they place the damson in the same species, but the latter is round,
plm plum pluum plm pluuum pl plm plum pllluum, plm plm plluum pl pluum,

the former oval. The damson, a small plum, may be safely classed with
plm plluum plum. Plm plllum, p pllum plum, plm pl plllum pllluum plum

the _Prunus Communis_. It derives its name from the city of Damascus.
plm pLlllum Plllluuum. Pl pluuuum plm plum plum plm plum pl Plllluum.

Damascena is the word used in Pliny for the district round Damascus, and
Plllluuum pl plm plum plum pl Pllum plm plm pluuuuum pllum Plluuuum, plm

damson originally meant the Damascus plum. The Chinese have for
plluum pllllluuum pllum plm Pllluuum plum. Plm Plluuum plum plm

centuries cultivated plums, and in the United States plums from Japan
pluuuuuum pllllluuum pllum, plm pl plm Plllum Plllum pluum plum Pllum

are coming rapidly into use, and appear to be more successful there than
plm plluum plluuum plum plm, plm plluum pl pl plum pllluuuuum pllum plum

in the British Isles. We find the word _prunum_, a plum, in Vergil,
pl plm Pllllum Pluum. Pl plum plm plum plluuuum, p plum, pl Pluuum,

Ovid, Martial, and other Roman writers. _Prunus_, a plum tree, is
Plum, Plluuum, plm pllum Pluum pllllum. pLllllum, p plum plum, pl

derived directly from the Greek; _prunus silvestris_, in Columella and
pllluum plllluum plum plm Pluum; plluuum pllllllluum, pl Pllluuuum plm

Pliny, is supposed to mean the black thorn or sloe tree. These
Pluum, pl plllllum pl plum plm pluum pllum pl plum plum. Pluum

illustrations prove that the plum has been known for ages, and that its
pllllllluuuum pluum plum plm plum plm plum pluum plm plum, plm plum plm

value is recognised in every part of the world. Our word plum is plainly
pllum pl pllllluuum pl pllum plum pl plm pluum. Plm plum plum pl pluuuum

derived from the Latin (probably through the Anglo-Saxon), and the word
pllluum plum plm Pllum (pllluuum plluuum plm Pluum-Pluum), plm plm plum

prune is almost identical with _prunum_.
pluum pl plllum pllllluum plum plllllum.







SOIL AND SITUATION
PLUM PLM PLLLLLLUM




The plum is not so particular as the pear about soil, yet it has its
Plm plum pl plm pl plllllllum pl plm plum pllum plum, plm pl plm plm

preferences. It is not so deep-rooting as the apple and pear are; the
pluuuuuuuum. Pl pl plm pl plum-pllluum pl plm pluum plm plum plm; plm

character therefore of the lower soil is not so important. But
pluuuuuum pluuuuuum pl plm pllum plum pl plm pl pllluuuum. Plm

stone-fruits require lime. In planting for profit, no site should be
pluum-pluuum plluuum plum. Pl plluuuum plm pluuum, pl plum plllum pl

selected for a large plantation if the soil is deficient in lime. It is
pluuuuum plm p pluum pllluuuuum pl plm plum pl pllllllum pl plum. Pl pl

true that lime can be added, but this plan may suit a private garden,
plum plum plum plm pl pluum, plm plum plum plm plum p pllluum plllum,

not a large plantation for profit. The plum being hardier than the pear
plm p pllum plllllluum plm pluuum. Plm plum pllum pllluum plum plm plum

will flourish in most soils, even in a heavy loam, but not in light
plum plluuuum pl plum pluum, plum pl p pllum plum, plm plm pl pllum

sandy or gravelly soil. In the latter case, something may be done by
pluum pl plllllum plum. Pl plm pluuum plum, plluuuuum plm pl plum pl

heavy manuring and frequent removal. The trees in the R.H.S.'s garden
pluum plluuuum plm plluuuum plluuum. Plm pllum pl plm P.P.P.'p plllum

at Chiswick are a triumph of skilful culture, as good crops are raised
pl Plluuuum plm p plluuum pl pllllum plluuum, pl plum pluum plm plllum

on many trees in a hot and gravelly soil. Some damsons, however, do not
pl plum pllum pl p plm plm pluuuuum plum. Plum pluuuum, plluuum, pl plm

thrive there. But such culture is costly. In soils of an intermediate
plluum pluum. Plm plum plluuum pl pluuum. Pl pllum pl pl plllllluuuum

character, much may be done by adding other materials as suggested for
plllluuum, plum plm pl plum pl pluuum pluum pluuuuuum pl pllllllum plm

pears. If there is any doubt about the amount of lime in the soil, an
pluum. Pl pllum pl plm pllum pllum plm plllum pl plum pl plm plum, pl

analysis should be obtained, and special notice taken of the trees in
pluuuuum plllum pl pllluuum, plm pluuuum plluum pluum pl plm pllum pl

the neighbourhood. The plum (like the pear) will not thrive in a low,
plm plllllluuuuum. Plm plum (plum plm plum) plum plm pluuum pl p plm,

wet, undrained locality, nor in one that is very dry or exposed.
plm, plllluuum plllllum, plm pl plm plum pl plum plm pl pluuuum.

Drainage is essential to success. If, in a rainy season, water in a clay
Plluuuum pl pllluuuum pl pllluum. Pl, pl p pluum plluum, pluum pl p plum

soil is allowed to remain round the roots, canker or gumming is pretty
plum pl pllllum pl plluum pllum plm pluum, pluuum pl plluuum pl plllum

sure to follow. Excessive moisture is as bad as extreme dryness. The
plum pl pluuum. Plllluuum plluuuum pl pl plm pl pluuuum plluuum. Plm

slope of the ground, therefore, is a matter of importance. In Essex
pllum pl plm plluum, pllllllum, pl p plllum pl plllluuuum. Pl Pluum

there is often land quite level with a heavy clay soil difficult to
pluum pl pluum plum pllum pluum plum p pllum plum plum plllluuum pl

drain; such soil would not suit plums, though it might suit quinces. The
pllum; plum plum pllum plm plum pllum, plllum pl pllum plum pllluum. Plm

aspect as well as the slope must also be considered. For the better
pluuum pl plum pl plm pluum plum plum pl pllllluuum. Plm plm plluum

class of plums, _i.e._ dessert varieties, where sweetness is expected, a
pluum pl pluum, pl.p.p pluuuum plllluuum, pllum pluuuuuum pl pllluuum, p

position open to the southern sun is best, but they will also thrive if
plllluum plum pl plm plluuuum plm pl plum, plm plum plum plum pluuum pl

the aspect is S.-E. or even S.-W. Culinary and hardy varieties might be
plm plllum pl P.-P. pl plum P.-P. Pllluuum plm pluum pllllllum pluum pl

planted in the colder aspects to the N., N.-E. or N.-W. Proper shelter
pllluum pl plm pluuum pluuuum pl plm P., P.-P. pl P.-P. Plluum pllllum

must by no means be forgotten. Bitter north winds may injure the bloom
plum pl pl pllum pl pllllluum. Plllum pllum pllum plm pluuum plm pluum

almost as much as frost or rain; strong winds from the E. or S.-W. may
plllum pl plum pl pluum pl plum; plllum pllum plum plm P. pl P.-P. plm

do great damage to heavy crops. Mr Lewis Castle in "Plums for Profit"
pl pllum pluuum pl pllum pluum. Pl Pluum Plllum pl "Pllum plm Plluum"

(edited by myself, S.P.C.K.) suggests that "Canadian and Italian poplars
(plluum pl plluum, P.P.P.P.) plllluum plum "Plllllum plm Pllllum pllllum

make a good break if tall growers are required, but cherry plums, the
plum p plum pllum pl plum pllllum plm plllluum, plm plllum pllum, plm

myrobalan, will grow into a strong hedge in two or three years' time if
plluuuuum, plum plum plum p plllum pluum pl plm pl pllum pluum' plum pl

the height be sufficient." Damson hedges serve a double purpose and
plm plluum pl pllllluuum." Plluum pluuum pllum p plllum pllllum plm

afford good protection. He also suggests that some of the ornamental
pluuum plum pluuuuuuum. Pl plum pllluuum plum plum pl plm plluuuuuum

crabs are similarly useful for protection. Of these the Transcendant
pluum plm pllluuuum plluum plm pllllluuum. Pl pllum plm Pllllluuuuum

and Hyslop or Dartmouth produce good crops of lovely fruit which are
plm Plllum pl Pllllllum pllllum plum pllum pl pluuum pllum pluum plm

excellent for cooking purposes and would probably sell well.
pluuuuuum plm plluuum plllluum plm pllum plllluum plum plum.







PROPAGATION AND STOCKS
PLLLLUUUUUM PLM PLLUUM




The usual method of propagation is by budding and grafting. The stocks
Plm pluum plluum pl pluuuuuuuum pl pl pllllum plm plllluum. Plm pluuum

on which the different varieties are grafted are raised from stones. Mr
pl pluum plm plllluuum plllluuum plm plluuum plm plluum plum plluum. Pl

Pearson states that six kinds of stocks are used in the best
Pllluum plllum plum plm pluum pl plllum plm plum pl plm plum

nurseries--_i.e._ the common plum, the Brussels, the Mussel, the
pllllllum--pl.p.p plm plluum plum, plm Plllllum, plm Plluum, plm

Brompton, the Damas Noir or St Julien, and the Myrobalan. The secret of
Pluuuuum, plm Pllum Plum pl Pl Plllum, plm plm Pllluuuum. Plm pluuum pl

success is to work the stock with a variety which is of common
plluuum pl pl plum plm pllum plum p pllllum pluum pl pl plluum

parentage. Nearly all plums will grow upon the common plum stock, though
pluuuuuum. Plluum plm pluum plum plum plum plm plluum plum pluum, pluuum

some of them thrive much better upon other stocks. Prince Englebert and
plum pl plum pluuum plum plluum plum pllum plllum. Plluum Plluuuuum plm

Diamond flourish upon Mussel, but not upon the Brompton. Belgian Purple
Pllluum plllluum plum Plllum, plm plm plum plm Pluuuuum. Pllllum Pluuum

will not grow upon either Brussels or common plum, but succeeds upon
plum plm plum plum pluuum Pluuuuum pl plluum plum, plm plllllum plum

Damas Noir, Mussel, or Myrobalan. The accurate knowledge required points
Pllum Plum, Plllum, pl Plluuuuum. Plm pluuuuum plluuuuum pluuuuum plluum

to the wisdom of purchasing trees only from nurserymen who make such
pl plm plluum pl plluuuuuum pllum plum plum plllllluum plm plum plum

trees a specialty.
pluum p plllluuum.




The late Archdeacon Lea in his excellent book "Small Farms" dwells
Plm plum Pllluuuuum Plm pl plm pllllllum plum "Pllum Pllum" pluuum

strongly on the folly of buying cheap stuff. Trees on unsuitable stocks
pluuuuum pl plm pluum pl plllum pluum pllum. Pluum pl plllllllum plluum

or not true to name bring bitter disappointment after a few years.
pl plm plum pl plum pllum plllum plllluuuuuuuum pluum p plm pllum.

"Never purchase trees because they are cheap. Visit the nurseries, and
"Pluum plllluum pluum pllluum plum plm pluum. Pllum plm pluuuuuum, plm

pick out trees with clean healthy bark, even though they are smaller
plum plm pluum plum pluum pllluum plum, plum pluuum plum plm pluuuum

than others." If you cannot go or send a reliable man, write in good
plum plllum." Pl plm plllum pl pl plum p plllluum plm, pluum pl plum

time and get an early choice. Select and accept only young trees not
plum plm plm pl pllum plluum. Plluum plm pluuum plum pllum pluum plm

more than two or three years' old. Budded trees are better than those
plum plum plm pl pllum pllum' plm. Pluuum pllum plm plluum plum pllum

grafted, as a general rule, the union being better; indeed grafting is
pllllum, pl p plluuum plum, plm pluum pluum plllum; pluuum pluuuuum pl

usually adopted because budding has failed. In trees that have been
pluuuum plluuum pllluum pluuuum plm pluuum. Pl pluum plum plum plum

budded, there will probably be less gumming.
plluum, pllum plum plllllum pl plum pllllum.







PLANTING
PLLLUUUM




Planting is a matter of supreme importance, but the rules for pears and
Pluuuuum pl p pluuum pl pllllum pllllluuum, plm plm pluum plm pllum plm

plums are very much the same. Especial care must be taken if the soil is
pluum plm plum plum plm plum. Plluuuum plum plum pl pllum pl plm plum pl

heavy and loaded with moisture. Put the trees on arrival in a trench
pluum plm pluuum plum pluuuuum. Plm plm pluum pl pllllum pl p pluuum

(see before), and wait until the ground is fit and the soil as fine as
(plm plllum), plm plum pluum plm pluuum pl plm plm plm plum pl plum pl

possible so that the roots may run freely through it. Get the stakes
plllluum pl plum plm pluum plm plm plluum pllluum pl. Plm plm pluuum

ready and place them in position before planting. Bind the tree, if
pllum plm pluum plum pl plllllum plllum pluuuuum. Plum plm plum, pl

tall, at once when planted to the stake by soft willow twigs or other
plum, pl plum plum plluuum pl plm pllum pl plum pluuum pllum pl pluum

means, taking every care that the bark is not rubbed by the stake. Old
pllum, plllum pllum plum plum plm plum pl plm plluum pl plm pluum. Plm

cloth or carpet may be used for this purpose, tarred twine or cord being
pllum pl plllum plm pl plum plm plum plluuum, plllum pluum pl plum pllum

passed round it. Dry stakes well tarred, often last as long as they are
pluuum pllum pl. Plm plllum plum plllum, pluum plum pl plum pl plum plm

needed.
pluuum.







WHAT IS YOUR OBJECT?
PLUM PL PLUM PLUUUM?




What is your object? Before choosing varieties, or planting, it is
Plum pl plum plllum? Plllum pllluuum pllllllum, pl pluuuuum, pl pl

advisable to ask yourself, what is my object? On the answer the form of
pllllluum pl plm plllluum, plum pl pl plllum? Pl plm plluum plm plum pl

plantation and the choice of trees must depend. If for a private house
plllluuuum plm plm pluuum pl pluum plum pluuum. Pl plm p plluuum pluum

only, the answer is easy. Then comes the question, Is there a wall, and
plum, plm plllum pl plum. Plum pllum plm pluuuuum, Pl pllum p plum, plm

if so, what is the soil and the aspect? Is there an Orchard House? If
pl pl, plum pl plm plum plm plm pluuum? Pl pllum pl Pluuuum Pluum? Pl

for market, for what market are you preparing? In the Midlands, the
plm plllum, plm plum pluuum plm plm plllluuum? Pl plm Plllluum, plm

Pershore (= Gisborne's) is a great favourite; in London, the Early
Pllluuum (= Plllluum'p) pl p pllum pluuuuuum; pl Plllum, plm Pluum

Orleans and the Egg Plum; in the North, the Black Diamond, the Wydale
Pllluum plm plm Plm Plum; pl plm Pllum, plm Pllum Plluuum, plm Plluum

and others. In planting damsons the same question should be put. The
plm pluuum. Pl plluuuum pllllum plm plum pllluuum plllum pl plm. Plm

Midland people won't have the Farleigh Prolific so popular in Kent, and
Pllllum plllum plm'p plum plm Pluuuuum Plllluum pl pllllum pl Plum, plm

they are right; the Shropshire folks think their damson the best of all
plum plm pllum; plm Pllllluuum pllum pllum pluum pluuum plm plum pl plm

and many agree with them. Are you near a jam factory? What plums do they
plm plum pluum plum plum. Plm plm plum p plm pluuuum? Plum pllum pl plum

desire or require? Local circumstances and wants should have great
pluuum pl pllluum? Pluum pllluuuuuuuum plm pluum pluuum plum pllum

weight. If you are near a wood and birds are numerous, you may be wise
pluuum. Pl plm plm plum p plum plm pluum plm plllllum, plm plm pl plum

in not growing greengages, yet otherwise they may be the best sort for a
pl plm plluuum plllllllum, plm pllluuuum plum plm pl plm plum plum plm p

large outlay as the demand for them is universal.
pluum plllum pl plm plllum plm plum pl plluuuuum.







PLUMS FOR A PRIVATE GARDEN
PLLUM PLM P PLLUUUM PLLUUM




Let us suppose that the soil is fairly good; the choice of trees is not
Plm pl pllluum plum plm plum pl plluum plum; plm plluum pl pllum pl plm

difficult. We have a selection made in 1892 by a committee of the
pllluuuum. Pl plum p pllllllum plum pl plum pl p plllluuum pl plm

R.H.S., consisting of forty experts, and their choice has been confirmed
P.P.P., pluuuuuuum pl pluum pluuuum, plm pllum pluuum plm plum pllllllum

in a remarkable degree by a report of the trial of plums at the Chiswick
pl p plllllluum plluum pl p plluum pl plm pluum pl pllum pl plm Pllluuum

Garden of the R.H.S. in 1901. At this trial on a soil that in a good
Pluuum pl plm P.P.P. pl plum. Pl plum pllum pl p plum plum pl p plum

year is said to suit them generally, ninety-five varieties were tested,
plum pl plum pl plum plum plllluuum, pluuum-plum pllluuuum plum plllum,

and a good account was given of the following ten:--
plm p plum pluuuum plm pllum pl plm pllluuuum plm:--




Plums for Eating.
Pluum plm Plluum.




_Rivers' Early Transparent Gage._--"Green or greenish yellow, flushed
pLluuum' Pllum Pllllluuuum Plum.p--"Pllum pl plllluum pluuum, pllllum

with red, the finest early dessert plum, a good cropper, habit bushy,
plum plm, plm plluum pllum pluuuum plum, p plum pluuuum, pllum pluum,

compact, vigorous."--R.[9] August 21.
pluuuum, plluuuum."--P.[p] Pluuum pl.




_Dennistoun's Superb Gage._--"Green and of greengage flavour, a
pLlllllluum'p Plllum Plum.p--"Pluum plm pl plluuuuum plluuum, p

first-rate dessert variety, of exquisite flavour, cropping well as a
pluum-plum pllluum pllluum, pl pllllllum pluuuum, plllllum plum pl p

bush tree in the open air, habit erect, compact, vigorous."--R. August
plum plum pl plm plum plm, pluum pllum, pllluum, plluuuum."--P. Plllum

26.
pl.




_Jefferson's._--"Fruit larger than the two former, yellow, covered with
pLllluuuum'p.p--"Pluum pluuum plum plm plm plllum, pluuum, pllluum plum

small red dots, habit erect, compact, very vigorous, the best 'all
pluum plm plum, pllum pllum, pluuuum, plum pluuuuum, plm plum 'plm

round' table kind, succeeds in every form."--R. September 6.
pllum' pluum plum, pllluuum pl pllum plum."--P. Pllllllum p.




In the list of 1892 _Belgian Purple_ was named as a plum for eating, but
Pl plm plum pl plum pLlluuum Pluuuum plm pluum pl p plum plm pluuum, plm

it is only fit for the table in warm seasons, "dark purple, of medium
pl pl plum plm plm plm pllum pl plum pllluum, "plum plluum, pl plluum

size, bears well, habit erect, compact, vigorous."--R. August 19.
plum, pluum plum, pluum pluum, pllluum, plluuuum."--P. Plluum pl.







Plums for Cooking.
Pluum plm Pllllum.




[Illustration: PLUM--RIVERS' EARLY PROLIFIC]
[Plllllluuuum: PLUM--PLLUUM' PLLUM PLUUUUUM]




_Rivers' Early Prolific_, a dark purple fruit, rather small but one
pLuuuum' Pluum Pllllllum, p plum plluum pllum, plllum pllum plm plm

which comes in early so that it is often first in the market; thus the
pllum pluum pl pllum pl plum pl pl pluum pllum pl plm plllum; plum plm

tree has time to rest and recover before winter. "A very early and
plum plm plum pl plum plm pluuuum pluuum plllum. "P plum pluum plm

valuable cooking plum; of fair quality for dessert, a great and constant
plllllum pllluum plum; pl plum pluuuum plm plluuum, p pluum plm pluuuuum

bearer." The tree does not thrive everywhere, nor is it very
pluuum." Plm plum plum plm pluuum plllllluum, plm pl pl plum

vigorous.--R. July 23.
plluuuum.--P. Plum pl.




[Illustration: PLUM--CZAR]
[Plllllluuuum: PLUM--PLUM]




_Rivers' Czar._--"Dark red or purple, of medium size, very good bearer,
pLlluum' Plum.p--"Plum plm pl plluum, pl plllum plum, plum plum plluum,

habit erect, compact, vigorous."--R. August 2.
pluum pllum, pluuuum, plluuuum."--P. Plllum p.




_Victoria_, "Fruit large and bright red, very heavy cropper, the most
pLlluuuuum, "Pllum pllum plm plluum plm, plum pluum pluuuum, plm plum

popular plum and best for general purposes."--R. August 22.
pllluum plum plm plum plm plluuum plllllum."--P. Plluum pl.




_Cox's Emperor_, or Denbigh, or Denbigh Seedling, "a large dark red of
pLum'p Plllllum, pl Plluuum, pl Pluuuum Plluuuum, "p pllum plum plm pl

the Orleans type, habit erect, compact, vigorous, a very good free
plm Pluuuum plum, pllum pllum, plluuum, plllluum, p plum plum plum

bearing plum that always cooks well."--R. August 22.
pllllum plum plum pluuum pllum plum."--P. Plllum pl.




_Gisborne's_ (like Pershore), "Fruit deep yellow, rather large, habit
pLlllllum'pl (plum Plluuuum), "Pluum plum pluuum, plluum pllum, pluum

erect, compact, vigorous, a great bearer."--Early September.
pllum, plluuum, pluuuuum, p pllum plllum."--Pluum Pllllllum.




_Rivers' Monarch_, "Fruit large, bluish-purple, the best late C.
pLluuum' Plllluum, "Pluum pllum, plluum-plllum, plm plum plum P.

(Cooking) plum, habit rather diffuse and vigorous."--R. September 13.
(Pluuuum) plum, pllum plllum plluuum plm plllllum."--P. Pllllllum pl.




These ten varieties have borne the test of time, and won approval from
Pllum plm pllluuuum plum pllum plm plum pl plum, plm plm plllllum plum

the R.H.S. in 1892 and 1901. The descriptions are those of the R.H.S. Mr
plm P.P.P. pl plum plm plum. Plm plllluuuuuum plm pllum pl plm P.P.P. Pl

Lewis Castle omits Cox's Emperor and adds;--
Pluum Plllum pllum Plm'p Pluuuum plm plum;--




_Early Orleans_, "medium size, reddish purple, good bearer and good C.
pLllum Pluuuuum, "pluuum plum, pllllum plluum, plum plluum plm plum P.

variety, habit diffuse and moderately vigorous."--R. August 2.
pluuuum, pluum pllllum plm pllllluuum pluuuuum."--P. Plllum p.




_Greengage._--If this is planted, choose July greengage, "rather large
pLluuuuuum.p--Pl plum pl pluuuum, plllum Plum pllllluum, "plluum pluum

for a greengage, habit erect, compact, vigorous, better bearer than old
plm p pllllluum, pluum pllum, pllluum, plllllum, pluuum plluum plum plm

G., fine-flavoured Dessert plum."--R. August 7.
P., plum-pluuuuuum Pllllum plum."--P. Plluum p.




_Diamond_, "very large, blue-black, very heavy cropper, habit bushy,
pLuuuuuum, "plum pllum, plum-pluum, plum pluum pluuuum, pluum pluum,

compact, vigorous, good C. plum."--R. August 23.
pluuuum, plllluum, plum P. plum."--P. Plluum pl.




_Pond's Seedling_, "Fruit very large, deep red, habit bushy, compact,
pLlum'p Plllluuum, "Pluum plum pllum, plum plm, pllum pluum, plluuum,

vigorous, rather late, free bearing C. plum."--R. September 7.
plllllum, pluuum plum, plum pllluum P. plum."--P. Pllllluum p.




_Prince Englebert_, "Rather large, dark purple, habit erect, compact,
pLluuum Plluuuuuum, "Plluum pllum, plum plllum, pluum pllum, pllluum,

vigorous, reliable C. plum."--R. August 13.
plluuuum, plllluum P. plum."--P. Plluum pl.




_Coe's Golden Drop_, "Fruit large, pale yellow, habit bushy, compact,
pLum'p Pluuum Pllum, "Pllum pluum, plum plluum, pluum pluum, pllluum,

vigorous, a delicious late D. plum, an indifferent bearer on bush trees,
plllllum, p pllllllum plum P. plum, pl pllluuuuuum plllum pl plum pllum,

most reliable on walls."--R. September 13.
plum plllluum pl pllum."--P. Pllluuuum pl.




These remarks are based on the Report of trials at Chiswick in 1901.
Pluum pluuuum plm pluum pl plm Pluuum pl pluuum pl Pluuuuum pl plum.




If one plum only is wanted, choose Victoria, if three, Early Prolific,
Pl plm plum plum pl plluum, pluuum Plllluum, pl pluum, Pllum Plluuuum,

Victoria and Monarch; to these Dennistoun's Superb and Jefferson might
Pluuuuum plm Plluuum; pl pluum Plllluuuum'p Plllum plm Pllllluum pluum

be added for dessert if five are desired.
pl pllum plm pluuuum pl plum plm plluuum.




All these varieties may be planted as Standards, but are better as
Plm pluum pllllllum plm pl pllluum pl Pluuuuuum, plm plm pluuum pl

half-standards or bushes. If as cordons they must be two feet or more
plum-plluuuuum pl plluum. Pl pl pluuuum plum plum pl plm plum pl plum

apart, and lifted about once in three years. There is no dwarfing plum
pluum, plm plllum pluum plum pl pllum pluum. Pllum pl pl plllllum plum

stock like the paradise for apples or the quince for pears.
pluum plum plm plluuuum plm pluuum pl plm pluuum plm pllum.




If the dessert varieties are on walls, special attention must be given
Pl plm pluuuum plluuuuum plm pl pllum, pluuuum pllluuuum plum pl pllum

to pruning and to root-pruning. The growth of coarse thick stems and
pl pluuuum plm pl plum-plluuum. Plm pluuum pl plllum pllum pluum plm

branches is often fatal to the prospect of good crops.
pllluuum pl pllum pllum pl plm pllluuum pl plum pllum.







PRUNING AND TRAINING
PLUUUUM PLM PLLLUUUM




Plums as a rule do not need nor will they bear as much close pruning as
Pllum pl p plum pl plm plum plm plum plum plum pl plum pluum pllluum pl

pears and apples. But they need special attention in early life.
pllum plm pluuum. Plm plum plum pllllum plluuuuum pl pluum plum.




STANDARDS.--These must be planted, when other crops are to be grown
PLUUUUUUM.--Pluum plum pl plluuum, plum pllum pluum plm pl pl pluum

beneath. Quincunx fashion is the best. The rows, as a rule, should be 24
pllluum. Plllluum pllllum pl plm plum. Plm plum, pl p plum, pluuum pl pl

feet apart, and the trees in each row about 20 feet. Plums do not shade
plum pllum, plm plm pllum pl plum plm pllum pl plum. Pluum pl plm pluum

as much as apples and pears, yet it is always wise to avoid overcrowding.
pl plum pl plllum plm pllum, plm pl pl pluuum plum pl pllum plllluuuuuum.

Some sorts are not as spreading or as vigorous as others. Weak growers
Plum pluum plm plm pl plllluuum pl pl plllllum pl plllum. Plum pllllum

like the Early Prolific might be placed between Jefferson and Monarch.
plum plm Pluum Pluuuuum pllum pl plllum plluuum Plllluuum plm Pllllum.

Good trees in six or seven years should bring good returns, but the
Plum pllum pl plm pl pllum pllum plllum pluum plum pllllum, plm plm

intermediate space may meanwhile be utilised for strawberries,
pllllluuuuum pluum plm pllllluum pl plluuuum plm pllllllluuum,

gooseberries, and so on. Standards should be 6 feet high or more. After
plllllllllum, plm pl pl. Pllllluum pluuum pl p plum plum pl plum. Pluum

planting, cut back the shoots to about one-third of their length, the
plllllum, plm plum plm pluuum pl pllum plm-pluum pl pluum plluum, plm

weakest still more, to promote vigorous growth, and cut just above an
pllllum pluum plum, pl pllllum plluuuum plluum, plm plm plum pluum pl

outer eye. Keep the centre open. In later years stop gross or robber
pllum plm. Plum plm pluuum plum. Pl pllum pluum plum pllum pl pluuum

shoots in June, clipping some leaves of the latter, if necessary. Never
plluum pl Plum, pllluuum plum pluuum pl plm pluuum, pl pllllluum. Pluum

allow boughs to cross, and keep all the tree fairly open. When the tree
pluum plluum pl pluum, plm plum plm plm plum pluuum plum. Plum plm plum

begins to bear, little pruning is necessary. But stopping luxuriant
plllum pl plum, pluuum pllllum pl plllluuum. Plm plllluum pllluuuum

shoots about midsummer is good for the other branches, and for the
pluuum pllum pllluuuum pl plum plm plm pluum plluuuum, plm plm plm

production of fruit buds before winter. Complete pruning early in
pllluuuuum pl pllum plum plllum plluum. Pllluuum pluuuum pluum pl

August. In winter cut out dead wood, and shorten boughs wherever fresh
Pluuum. Pl pluuum plm plm plum plum, plm pllluum plllum pllluuum pluum

wood is required. The wood of the Victoria plum is very brittle, and
plum pl plllluum. Plm plum pl plm Pluuuuum plum pl plum pllllum, plm

requires special treatment. Shorten the strong growing luxuriant
pluuuuum pllllum plllluuum. Pllllum plm pluuum pllluum plluuuuum

branches of this variety in July; otherwise later on they will break
pluuuuum pl plum pluuuum pl Plum; pllluuuum pllum pl plum plum pllum

when loaded with fruit. Messrs Bunyard's choice of six for market
plum plluum plum pluum. Plllum Pllllum'p plllum pl plm plm plluum

standards is: Rivers' Early Prolific, Czar, Early Orleans, Victoria,
plllluuum pl: Pluuum' Pllum Pllluuum, Plum, Pllum Pluuuum, Plllllum,

Pond's Seedling, Rivers' Monarch.
Plum'p Plluuuum, Pluuum' Pllluum.




HALF STANDARDS (3-½ feet to 4 feet high) are better, and more
PLUM PLLUUUUUM (p-p plum pl p plum plum) plm plllum, plm plum

manageable. Planted 12 feet apart, gooseberries, etc., may be placed
plllllluum. Pllllum pl plum pluum, pllllluuuuum, plm., plm pl pluuum

around them; otherwise they may be nearer, even up to 6 or 8 feet. These
plllum plum; pllllllum plum plm pl pluuum, plum pl pl p pl p plum. Pluum

should be pruned in August unless strong shoots require pinching back.
plllum pl plllum pl Plluum plluum plluum plllum pllluum plllllum plum.

Stop new side shoots at the sixth leaf to produce fruit-buds. Avoid
Plum plm plum plllum pl plm pluum plum pl plluuum pllum-plum. Pluum

excess. Wounds made in August have a better chance of healing while the
pluuum. Plluum plum pl Pluuum plum p plluum pluuum pl plluuum pllum plm

sap is still active. Pyramids are not as useful as bushes; the former
plm pl pluum plluum. Plllluum plm plm pl plllum pl plllum; plm plllum

require a central stem and special training.
plluuum p plluuum plum plm pllluum pllluuum.




IN BUSHES, keep the tree open, stop strong shoots at midsummer,
PL PLLLUM, plum plm plum plum, plum plllum plllum pl plllluuum,

prune new (side) shoots back to six leaves about mid-August, and take
pllum plm (plum) plluum plum pl plm pluuum pluum plm-Plllum, plm plum

out wood that is not wanted, admitting the sun and air. In winter cut
plm plum plum pl plm plluum, pllluuuum plm plm plm plm. Pl plllum plm

back any boughs where fresh shoots are wanted to a wood bud at an outer
plum plm plllum pluum pluum pluuum plm pluuum pl p plum plm pl pl pllum

eye.
plm.




TREES ON WALLS.--Plums are usually put on east walls, but the
PLLUM PL PLUUM.--Pllum plm plluuum plm pl plum pllum, plm plm

best repay a south as well as a west aspect. They require and repay
plum pllum p pllum pl plum pl p plum pluuum. Plum pllllum plm pluum

care and skill in training. If the wall is low, the horizontal form is
plum plm pllum pl plluuuum. Pl plm plum pl plm, plm pllllluuum plum pl

best. The branches should be taken several inches below the line along
plum. Plm plllllum plluum pl pllum pluuuum pluuum pllum plm plum pllum

which they are to be trained, and not at right angles; the sap will flow
pluum plum plm pl pl pluuuum, plm plm pl pluum plluum; plm plm plum plum

better, and the tendency of branches to die off will be lessened. The
plllum, plm plm pllluuum pl pllluuum pl plm plm plum pl plllllum. Plm

first branch should be 1 foot from the ground, the rest 9 inches apart.
pllum plluum plluum pl p plum plum plm plluum, plm plum p pluuum pluum.

Coarse stems and branches must be avoided by moderate root-pruning. The
Pluuum pllum plm plllluum plum pl pllllum pl plllluum plum-pllluum. Plm

wood must be kept near the wall, that wood and fruit may be better
plum plum pl plum plum plm plum, plum plum plm pllum plm pl pluuum

ripened. The fan system is better for a high wall. Train shoots on the
plluuum. Plm plm plllum pl pluuum plm p plum plum. Pllum plluum pl plm

tree from the nursery in regular order at equal intervals, cutting back
plum plum plm plluuum pl pllllum pluum pl pllum pllllllum, plluuum plum

only to ripe wood. Pick off growths on the side next the wall, and
plum pl plum plum. Plum plm plluuum pl plm plum plum plm plum, plm

others badly placed. Lay in new wood every year, and in August or Early
plluum pluum plllum. Plm pl plm plum pluum plum, plm pl Pluuum pl Pluum

September cut out unsightly branches or spurs if there is other wood to
Pllllluum plm plm pllllluum pluuuuum pl pllum pl pllum pl pllum plum pl

replace them. Prune upper part of tree first, and encourage foliage and
pluuuum plum. Pluum pllum plum pl plum pluum, plm plluuuuum pllluum plm

fruit spurs over every part. Stop strong growing branches at midsummer,
pllum pllum plum pllum plum. Plum plllum pllllum plllluum pl plluuuuum,

and pinch back side shoots to six leaves about mid-August. Fruit buds
plm pluum plum plum pluuum pl plm plllum pllum plm-Plllum. Pllum plum

will follow. Wire on the wall should be 1-½ inch out, with an interval
plum pluuum. Plum pl plm plum plluum pl p-p plum plm, plum pl pluuuuum

of 1 foot between each wire.
pl p plum pluuuum plum plum.







MANURES
PLLLUUM




The absence of moisture and the consequent exhaustion have a serious
Plm pluuuum pl pluuuuum plm plm plllllllum pllluuuuum plum p pllllum

effect on plums, and should never be allowed. Mulch newly-planted trees
plluum pl pluum, plm plllum pllum pl plluuum. Pllum pluum-pluuuum pluum

in light or poor soil; give liquid manure or irrigate in dry weather.
pl pluum pl plum plum; plum pluuum pluuum pl plllllum pl plm pluuuum.

Should the crops be heavy, and the soil at all deficient in lime, the
Plllum plm pllum pl pluum, plm plm plum pl plm plluuuuum pl plum, plm

deficiency should be made up by scattering lime some distance around the
pllllluuum plllum pl plum pl pl plllllllum plum plum pllluuum plluum plm

stems and working it gently in. "An annual dressing of decayed vegetable
pluum plm pluuuum pl plluum pl. "Pl pluuum plluuuum pl pllluum pllluuuum

matter, old manure and lime-rubbish, laid about a yard round the stems,
plluum, plm plluum plm plum-pluuuum, plum pllum p plum pluum plm pllum,

produces very satisfactory results" ("Plums for profit"). Supply this
plllluum plum pllllluuuuum pllllum" ("Pluum plm plllum"). Pluuum plum

in November. The artificials recommended by R.H.S. for pears are also
pl Plluuuum. Plm plluuuuuuum pllllllluum pl P.P.P. plm pllum plm plum

good for plums. Dr Griffiths recommends cow dung and a mixed manure,
plum plm pluum. Pl Pllluuuum plluuuuuum plm plum plm p pllum pluuum,

composed of 5 parts of kainit, 1 part of magnesium sulphate, 2 parts of
plllluum pl p pllum pl pluuum, p plum pl pllluuuum plllluum, p pluum pl

superphosphate; 7 lbs. of the mixture to be applied to each tree in
plllllllluuuum; p plm. pl plm pllluum pl pl pllluum pl plum plum pl

autumn, two more pounds in the spring.
pluuum, plm plum plllum pl plm plluum.




Established trees in full health need no aid in an ordinary season if
Pluuuuuuuum pllum pl plum plllum plum pl plm pl pl plllllum pluuum pl

they carry no crop. Damsons should be fed as well as plums.
plum pllum pl plum. Pluuuum pluuum pl plm pl plum pl pluum.







THINNING
PLLLLLUM




must be carried out severely if the crop is thick. In a good plum
plum pl pllllum plm plllllum pl plm plum pl pluum. Pl p plum plum

season, only very fine and first-rate fruits fetch a good price, and
pluuum, plum plum plum plm pluum-plum pluuum pllum p plum pllum, plm

these can only be obtained by thinning the fruit and feeding the trees.
pllum plm plum pl plllllum pl pluuuuum plm pluum plm pllluum plm pluum.

An annual crop (if frost does not interfere) may then be expected. Half
Pl plllum plum (pl pllum plum plm pllluuuum) plm plum pl pllluuum. Plum

the crop in some years should be taken off long before the fruit is
plm plum pl plum pllum plluum pl pllum plm plum plllum plm pllum pl

ripe. The jam-makers utilise green and half-ripe plums.
plum. Plm plm-plluum pllllum pllum plm plum-plum pluum.







GAGES
PLUUM




These are dessert plums, some of the highest excellence, but they
Pluum plm pllllum pluum, plum pl plm pllluum pluuuuuuum, plm plum

usually require a wall or the best soil and situation. The demand for
pluuuum pllllum p plum pl plm plum plum plm pluuuuuum. Plm plluum plm

them is very great. Preserved with proper care, they last until plums
plum pl plum pluum. Pllllluum plum pluuum plum, plum plum pllum pluum

come again, and often fetch a higher price than the red or dark plums.
plum pllum, plm pluum pllum p plluum pllum plum plm plm pl plum pllum.




The following are the five best:--
Plm pluuuuuum plm plm plum plum:--




1. July Greengage (see before) early in August.
p. Plum Pllllllum (plm plluum) pllum pl Plllum.




2. Dennistoun's Superb (see before) mid-August.
p. Plllllllum'p Plluum (plm plllum) plm-Plllum.




3. Early Transparent (see before) end of August.
p. Pllum Pluuuuuuuum (plm pluuum) plm pl Plllum.




4. Reine Claude Comte d'Althann, briefly Comte d'Althann, a
p. Pllum Plllum Pllum p'Pllluum, pllllum Pllum p'Pllluum, p

comparatively new plum from Bohemia. First-class certificate R.H.S.
plllllluuuuum plm plum plum Pllluum. Pluum-pluum pllllllllum P.P.P.

"Medium to large, greyish green, deeply flushed and dotted with red,
"Plluum pl pllum, plluuum pluum, plluum pllllum plm plllum plum plm,

covered with a beautiful white bloom, very heavy crop, habit bushy,
pllluum plum p pllllllum pllum pluum, plum pluum plum, pluum pluum,

compact, vigorous, remarkably good dessert plum, succeeding equally well
pllllum, plluuuum, pluuuuuuum plum pllllum plum, plllluuuum pluuuum plum

as a wall tree, bush, or standard, remarkably prolific." R.H.S., R.
pl p plum plum, plum, pl plllluum, plllllllum plllluum." P.P.P., P.

August 22.
Plluum pl.




5. Jefferson (see before).
p. Plluuuuum (plm pluuum).




6. If more are wanted M'Laughlin's Gage is "rather large, pale yellow,
p. Pl plum plm plluum P'Pllluuum'p Plum pl "plluum pllum, plum plluum,

flushed with red, a good cropper, habit erect, compact, vigorous, one of
pluuuum plum plm, p plum pllluum, pllum pluum, pllllum, plllllum, plm pl

the finest dessert plums." R. August 17.
plm pluuum pllluum pluum." P. Plluum pl.




7. Guthrie's Late Green, "very good cropper, habit bushy, compact,
p. Plluuum'p Plum Pllum, "plum plum pllluum, pllum pluum, pllluum,

vigorous, a most delicious dessert plum." R. August 30.
pluuuuum, p plum pllluuuum pllluum plum." P. Pluuum pl.




Nos. 2, 5 and 6 are splendid specimens of American plums, No. 7 is
Plm. p, p plm p plm plluuuum plluuuuum pl Pllluuum pluum, Pl. p pl

Scotch, named after the late Mr Guthrie of Dundee.
Pluuum, pllum pllum plm plum Pl Pluuuum pl Plllum.




The following are well known but not so good in some respects: Bryanston
Plm plllluuum plm plum pluum plm plm pl plum pl plum pllluuum: Pllllllum

Gage, Oullin's Golden Gage, Golden Transparent. Coe's Golden Drop has
Plum, Pluuum'p Plllum Plum, Plluum Plluuuuuuum. Plm'p Pluuum Plum plm

been described. Angelina Burdett is sometimes classed with the gages. It
plum plllluuum. Pluuuuum Pllluum pl plllluuum plluuum plum plm pluum. Pl

is "dark red, shaded with purple, a good cropper, habit bushy and
pl "plum plm, pluuum plum pluuum, p plum pllluum, pllum pllum plm

compact, a delicious dessert variety that hangs well in the trees for
pluuuum, p plluuuuum pllluum pluuuum plum pllum plum pl plm pllum plm

some time after it is ripe." R. August 22.
plum plum pluum pl pl plum." P. Pluuum pl.







MARKET PLUMS
PLLLUM PLLUM




If a planter prefers to grow gages, he must protect his trees from
Pl p pluuuum pllluum pl plum pluum, pl plum pllluum plm pluum plum

bullfinches and other birds. The former often carry off the buds in
pllllllllum plm pluum pluum. Plm plllum pllum pluum plm plm plum pl

winter, and ruin all hopes of a crop. Such a plantation near a wood
plluum, plm plum plm pllum pl p plum. Plum p plllluuuum plum p plum

would usually be a failure. If the trees are washed in early winter with
pllum pluuuum pl p pluuuum. Pl plm pluum plm pluuum pl pllum plluum plum

No. II. mixture, the buds will have some protection. Lime should be
Pl. PL. plluuum, plm plum plum plum plum pllluuuuum. Plum pluuum pl

thrown over the branches on a damp day. The gun in many cases must be at
plluum plum plm plllluum pl p plum plm. Plm plm pl plum pluum plum pl pl

work from dawn to dusk. The gardener must learn to distinguish between
plum plum plum pl plum. Plm plluuuum plum pluum pl pluuuuuuuum pluuuum

friend and foe. Mr Lea's list in "Small Farms in the Midlands" is as
plluum plm plm. Pl Plm'p plum pl "Pluum Pllum pl plm Plllllum" pl pl

follows: Early Prolific, Victoria, Black Diamond ("the wood is
pluuuum: Pluum Plllluum, Pluuuuum, Pllum Pllluum ("plm plum pl

remarkably tough"), Pond's Seedling ("tolerably tough"), Pershore Egg
plluuuuuum pluum"), Plum'p Pluuuuum ("pluuuuuum pllum"), Plllluum Plm

Plum, _i.e._ Gisborne ("hardiest of all plums, surest cropper, comes
Plum, pl.p.p Plluuuum ("plllllum pl plm pluum, pluuum pllluum, pluum

early into bearing, the wood tough, and though the price is low, pays
pluum plum pllllum, plm plum pllum, plm pluuum plm pllum pl plm, plum

well"). He also mentions Prince Englebert and Jemmy Moore ("alias Cox's
plum"). Pl plum plllluum Plluum Plluuuuum plm Pluum Pllum ("pluum Plm'p

Emperor, alias Denbigh"), but wisely adds, these come in about the same
Pluuuum, pluum Pllluum"), plm plluum plum, pllum plum pl pllum plm plum

time as Victoria, when there is a glut. Early or late varieties usually
plum pl Plluuuum, plum pluum pl p plum. Pllum pl plum plllluuum pluuuum

sell best. A new variety, Bittern, raised (as so many varieties have
plum plum. P plm pllllum, Plluuum, plllum (pl pl plum pllllluum plum

been) at Sawbridgeworth, by the late Francis Rivers, seems well worth
plum) pl Plllllluuuuuum, pl plm plum Pllluum Pluuum, pllum plum pllum

trying: "Fruit rather large, deep purple, very heavy crop, habit bushy,
plluum: "Pluum pluuum pluum, plum pluuum, plum pluum plum, pluum pluum,

compact, vigorous, excellent early free-bearing variety. R. August 2."
pluuuum, plllllum, pllluuuum pllum plum-pllluum pluuuum. P. Pluuum p."




Curlew is another "early free-cropping purple plum, habit erect,
Pluuum pl plluuum "pllum plum-plllllum plllum plum, pluum pllum,

vigorous," also raised by Francis Rivers. Monarch is a late, good, and
pllluuum," plum plllum pl Pllllum Plllum. Pllllum pl p plum, plum, plm

very saleable plum. It is said that 75 per cent. or more of the plums
plum pluuuuum plum. Pl pl plum plum pl plm plum. pl plum pl plm pluum

planted in recent years have been Victorias. Planters should avoid the
pluuuum pl plllum pllum plum plum Pllllllum. Pllluuum plluum pllum plm

Victoria glut. Pond's Seedling, red and very large, coming in after
Pluuuuum plum. Plum'p Plllluum, plm plm plum pluum, plluum pl pluum

Victoria, often sells well. Put up in a small basket it is inviting, and
Pluuuuum, pllum pluum plum. Plm pl pl p pluum plluum pl pl pluuuuum, plm

sells for an eating though properly a cooking plum. Early Prolific is
pllum plm pl plllum plllum plllllum p pluuuum plum. Pluum Plllllum pl

also largely planted, but does not suit all soils. The white Magnum
plum pllluum pluuuum, plm plum plm plum plm pluum. Plm pllum Plluum

Bonum or egg plum (very large), good for cooking and preserving, sells
Pllum pl plm plum (plum pllum), plum plm plluuum plm pluuuuuuum, pllum

well in London, but needs a strong soil. It is an early September fruit.
plum pl Plluum, plm pluum p pluuum plum. Pl pl pl pllum Pluuuuuum pllum.

Wyedale is popular in Yorkshire, valuable for its lateness, and for
Pllllum pl plluuum pl Plllluuum, plllllum plm plm pluuuuum, plm plm

keeping sound on the trees when ripe; its habit is diffuse, size rather
pllluum pluum pl plm pllum plum plum; plm pllum pl pllllum, plum pluuum

small, a good cropper. Mr Pearson names Goliath, a large reddish purple
pluum, p plum pllluum. Pl Pllllum pllum Pllluum, p pluum pllllum plluum

plum, "a good cropper, habit diffuse and vigorous, a very useful cooking
plum, "p plum plluuum, pluum pllluum plm plluuuum, p plum plluum pluuuum

plum. R. September 7."
plum. P. Pluuuuuum p."




At the Plum Congress held at Edinburgh in September 1889 an election of
Pl plm Plum Pluuuuum plum pl Pllllllum pl Pllllllum plum pl pluuuuum pl

sorts was made with the following result:--
pluum plm plum plum plm plluuuuum plluum:--




              _Dessert Plums_
              pLllllum Plluum

                                             Votes.
                                             Pllum.

  Jefferson                                    72
  Pluuuuuum                                    pl

  Coe's Golden Drop                            69
  Plm'p Plluum Plum                            pl

  Green Gage                                   57
  Pluum Plum                                   pl

  Kirke's                                      57
  Pluum'p                                      pl

  Early Transparent                            25
  Pluum Pllllllluum                            pl

  Oullin's Golden Gage                         16
  Plllum'p Plllum Plum                         pl

  Reine Claude de Bavay                        14
  Pluum Pluuum pl Pllum                        pl




                _Culinary_
                pLluuuuuum

                                             Votes.
                                             Pluum.

  Victoria                                     74
  Plllluum                                     pl

  Pond's Seedling                              54
  Plum'p Pluuuuum                              pl

  White Magnum Bonum                           52
  Pllum Plluum Pllum                           pl

  Early Prolific                               40
  Pllum Pluuuuum                               pl

  Goliath                                      31
  Pluuuum                                      pl

  Early Orleans                                27
  Pllum Pluuuum                                pl




The friend who sent me this list remarks: "Newer plums supersede some of
Plm plllum plm plum pl plum plum pllllum: "Pluum pluum pluuuuuum plum pl

these. Czar does not crack with the wet as Orleans does. I prefer
pluum. Plum plum plm pllum plum plm plm pl Pluuuum plum. P plluum

Diamond to Goliath." Kirke's is better on a wall than in the open. The
Pllluum pl Pllluum." Pluum'p pl pluuum pl p plum plum pl plm plum. Plm

same may be said of Oullin's; neither are grand croppers. Reine Claude
plum plm pl plum pl Pluuum'p; pllluum plm pllum plluuuum. Pluum Plllum

de Bavay is a late gage, richly flavoured, but not a good cropper.
pl Pluum pl p plum plum, plllum plluuuuum, plm plm p plum pluuuum.







GATHERING, PACKING, MARKETING
PLLLLUUUM, PLUUUUM, PLLLLLLUM




A step ladder or a Heathman's combined ladder is best for gathering as
P plum plluum pl p Plluuuum'p plllluum plluum pl plum plm pluuuuuum pl

plum wood is often brittle. Look over the trees several times and gather
plum plum pl pluum pllluum. Plum plum plm pluum plluuum pllum plm plllum

gradually. Fruit for home use should not be gathered until it is ripe,
plluuuuum. Pluum plm plum plm plluum plm pl plllluum pllum pl pl plum,

but for market it should not be quite ripe. Early morning when the
plm plm pluuum pl plllum plm pl pllum plum. Pluum pluuuum plum plm

fruit is cool is the best time. Dessert fruits generally should be
pllum pl plum pl plm plum plum. Pllllum plluum plluuuuum pluuum pl

handled as little as possible, otherwise the bloom on them and the
pllluum pl plllum pl pllluuum, pllllluum plm pllum pl plum plm plm

appearance are spoilt. Plums are often sent away in round baskets, or
pluuuuuuum plm plllum. Pllum plm pllum plum plum pl pluum pluuuum, pl

oblong flat baskets. The former in the London markets are termed sieves
plllum plum pllllum. Plm pluuum pl plm Plllum plluuum plm plllum pluuum

or half-sieves. A sieve holds seven imperial gallons; the diameter is 15
pl plum-pluuum. P pllum pllum pluum plluuuum pllllum; plm pluuuuum pl pl

inches, the depth 8 inches. Flat baskets with lids protect the fruit
plllum, plm pllum p pluuum. Plum plluuum plum plum pllllum plm pluum

from injury. Stout and strong paper, above, below and around, assist in
plum plluum. Pllum plm pluuum pllum, pllum, pluum plm pluuum, plluum pl

saving it. Oblong baskets with handles and without a lid are used in the
plluum pl. Pluuum pluuuum plum plluuum plm pllluum p plm plm plum pl plm

Midlands and the N. They are called "pots," and local inquiry as to
Pluuuuum plm plm P. Plum plm plluum "plum," plm pluum pllllum pl pl

weight should be made. Strong brown paper is useful on the top. The cost
plllum plluum pl plum. Pluuum pllum pllum pl plluum pl plm plm. Plm plum

per ream is from 10s. to 20s. But non-returnable boxes are better. The
plm plum pl plum plm. pl plm. Plm plm-pllllluuum pluum plm pluuum. Plm

baskets are often missing or lost. The sizes of unplaned boxes with lids
pllllum plm pluum pllluum pl plum. Plm pllum pl pllluuum pluum plum plum

to be nailed on are usually as follows:--[10]
pl pl plllum pl plm pllluum pl pllluum:--[pl]




                                              Gross.    Doz.
                                              Pllum.    Plm.

  lbs.  Length.       Width.       Depth.     s. d.     s. d.
  plm.  Plllum.       Pllum.       Pllum.     p. p.     p. p.

  14    10-¾ in.     10-½ in.     6-¼ in.     26 6      2  6
  pl    pl-p pl.     pl-p pl.     p-p pl.     pl p      p  p

  28    22    "      10-¾  "      6-¼  "      46 0      4  2
  pl    pl    "      pl-p  "      p-p  "      pl p      p  p

  42    27    "      15    "      8    "      84 0      7  6
  pl    pl    "      pl    "      p    "      pl p      p  p




                                                   --GLOVER.
                                                   --PLLLUM.




Choice dessert plums sent in light boxes (one or two layers only in a
Pluuum pllllum pluum plum pl pllum pluum (plm pl plm pluuum plum pl p

box) placed in wood-wool, and with tissue paper covering the inside of
plm) plluum pl plum-plum, plm plum plllum pllum plluuuum plm pluuum pl

the box, and lying between each layer, often sell well. White paper-lace
plm plm, plm pluum pllllum plum pllum, pllum plum plum. Pluum pllum-plum

(such as is used for honey sections) sets off good fruit, and makes it
(plum pl pl plum plm pluum plllllum) plum plm plum pluum, plm pluum pl

more attractive. Pink tissue paper is often used for light fruits. The
plum pllllluuum. Plum plluum pluum pl pllum plum plm pllum plluum. Plm

boxes should be uniform in size and quality of fruit as far as possible.
pluum plluum pl pluuuum pl plum plm pllluum pl pllum pl plm pl plllluum.

Tissue paper can be bought at 2s. 6d. to 5s. or more a ream, and should
Plllum pluum plm pl plluum pl pl. pl. pl pl. pl plum p plum, plm pluuum

not be grudged. The best wood-wool ranges from 18s. to 25s. per cwt. A
plm pl pllluum. Plm plum plum-plum plluum plum plm. pl plm. plm plm. P

few visits to Covent Garden, the best shops, and the Crystal Palace
plm plllum pl Plllum Plluum, plm plum pluum, plm plm Pluuuum Pluuum

Fruit Shows, will not be time or labour lost.
Pluum Pllum, plum plm pl plum pl pluuum plum.




Plums and damsons for market should be gathered and sent before they are
Pllum plm plluuum plm plllum plluum pl pluuuuum plm plum pluuum plum plm

quite ripe; if soft and pulpy on arrival, they are valueless. Sort in
pllum plum; pl plum plm pluum pl pllllum, plum plm pllllluum. Plum pl

size and quality as even as possible: keep back all inferior stuff. Only
plum plm pluuuum pl plum pl plllluum: plum plum plm plllluum pluum. Plum

good produce, well sorted and properly packed, placed on the market in
plum pluuuum, plum plllum plm plllluum plllum, plllum pl plm plluum pl

good condition, is likely to sell well. Foreigners as well as neighbours
plum plllluuum, pl plluum pl plum plum. Plllluuuum pl plum pl plllllllum

compete for custom. In large establishments a packing room with every
pllllum plm plluum. Pl pllum pllluuuuuuuuum p pluuuum plum plum pllum

convenience close at hand is necessary.[11] The market-agent should
pluuuuuuuum pllum pl plum pl pllllllum.[pl] Plm pluuum-pluum pluuum

daily advise what goods are needed.
pllum plluum plum pllum plm plllum.







STORING AND KEEPING
PLUUUUM PLM PLUUUUM




Plums, as a rule, do not remain good for any length of time after being
Pllum, pl p plum, pl plm pluuum plum plm plm plllum pl plum pluum pllum

gathered. They will however last a week or two if laid out in a cool,
pllluuum. Plum plum pluuuum plum p plum pl plm pl plum plm pl p plum,

dark, well constructed place. Slate slabs assist to keep baskets and
plum, plum pllluuuuuum pllum. Pluum pluum plluum pl plum pllluum plm

fruit cool. Some of the late dessert varieties gathered before they are
pllum plum. Plum pl plm plum plluuum pluuuuuum pllluuum plllum plum plm

quite ripe, wrapped in paper, will last in a dry place for a long
pllum plum, pluuuum pl pllum, plum plum pl p plm pluum plm p plum

period. Dr Hogg says that "Ickworth Impératrice," a large late dessert
pluuum. Pl Plum plum plum "Pllluuum Plllllluuum," p pllum plum plluuum

variety, if allowed to remain on the tree until it shrivels, then wrapt
plluuum, pl plluuum pl plluum pl plm plum pllum pl plllllum, plum pllum

in silk paper and placed in a dry shelf, will last for many weeks. It is
pl plum pllum plm plluum pl p plm pllum, plum plum plm plum pllum. Pl pl

a richly-flavoured plum. The remark is probably true of other late
p pluuum-pllllluum plum. Plm plllum pl pluuuuum plum pl pluum plum

varieties; _e.g._, the lovely Golden Transparent, "a delicious plum
plluuuuum; pl.p.p, plm plllum Pluuum Pllllllllum, "p plluuuuum plum

grown against a wall, but not a success in the open" (R. September 12),
pllum pluuuum p plum, plm plm p pllllum pl plm plum" (P. Pllllllum pl),

or Reine Claude de Bavay, which is late, but a poor bearer. The Ickworth
pl Pluum Pluuum pl Pluum, pllum pl plum, plm p plum plllum. Plm Plllluum

Impératrice was not tested by the R.H.S., and is not now often grown.
Pllllllllum plm plm plllum pl plm P.P.P., plm pl plm plm pllum pllum.

Guthrie's late Green, "a most delicious dessert plum and the heaviest
Pluuuum'p plum Pluum, "p plum pluuuuuum pluuuum plum plm plm plluuuum

cropper here (_i.e._ Chiswick R.H.S.) of all the gages," is probably
pllllum plum (pl.p.p Plllluum P.P.P.) pl plm plm pluum," pl pllluuum

one of the best sorts for keeping as described above. Angelina Burdett
plm pl plm plum pluum plm plluuum pl pllluuuum pluum. Pluuuuum Pllluum

(see gages) "if allowed to hang till it shrivels becomes a perfect
(plm pluum) "pl pllluum pl plum plum pl plllllum pllllum p pllllum

sweetmeat" (Hogg).
pluuuuuum" (Plum).







INSECT ENEMIES
PLLUUM PLLLLUM




1. APHIDES are often a great trouble. There are three sorts or
p. PLLLLUM plm pluum p pluum pluuuum. Pluum plm pluum pluum pl

more, one called the plum aphis. They attack in spring and cause the
plum, plm pluuum plm plum pluum. Plum plluum pl plluum plm pluum plm

leaves to curl up, and so check growth. Steep 4 ozs. of quassia chips in
plluum pl plum pl, plm pl pluum pluuum. Pllum p plm. pl pllllum pllum pl

a gallon of soft water for twenty-four hours. Dissolve 2 ozs. of soft
p pluuum pl plum pluum plm pluuum-plum pllum. Pllluuum p plm. pl plum

soap in this mixture, and add to the infusion. Apply by a painter's
plum pl plum pluuuum, plm plm pl plm plluuuum. Pllum pl p pllluum'p

brush, and carefully wash the under side of the leaves (Rivers). On a
pllum, plm pllluuuum plum plm pluum plum pl plm pluuum (Plllum). Pl p

larger scale: "Boil 1 lb. of chips in a gallon of water for twenty
plllum pluum: "Plum p pl. pl pllum pl p plllum pl pllum plm plllum

minutes, strain off the chips and add 38 gallons of water. Put 1 lb. of
pluuuum, plllum plm plm pluum plm plm pl pluuuum pl pluum. Plm p pl. pl

soft soap in a gallon of water until dissolved, then add to the rest.
plum plum pl p pluuum pl pluum pluum pllllluum, plum plm pl plm plum.

Apply by a syringe or sprayer. Where the foliage is young follow the
Pllum pl p pllllum pl pllluum. Pllum plm plluuum pl pllum pluuum plm

spraying by syringing half-an-hour afterwards" (Castle). Tobacco water
pllluuum pl plllluuum plum-pl-plum plllllllum" (Pluuum). Pllllum pluum

made as follows is also a good remedy: "Pour soft boiling water at the
plum pl plluuum pl plum p plum pluuum: "Plum plum pllllum pluum pl plm

rate 1 gallon to 2 ozs. of the strongest shag tobacco, allow it to stand
plum p pluuum pl p plm. pl plm pllllllum plum pluuuum, pluum pl pl pllum

till cool. Its efficacy is increased by dissolving 2 ozs. of soft soap
plum plum. Plm plluuuum pl plllluuum pl pllllluuum p plm. pl plum plum

in each gallon at the time it is poured on the tobacco" (Wright). This
pl plum plluum pl plm plum pl pl plluum pl plm pluuuum" (Plllum). Plum

mixture may be applied with some force by the garden engine. The great
pluuuum plm pl pllllum plum plum pluum pl plm pluuum plllum. Plm pluum

point is to syringe or paint with one of these remedies as soon as the
pluum pl pl pluuuum pl pluum plum plm pl pllum pluuuuum pl plum pl plm

evil is perceived.
plum pl pllllluum.




2. RED GRUB is often very injurious. The moth measures about
p. PLM PLUM pl pllum plum pllllluum. Plm plum pllluuum pluum

½ inch across, the caterpillars are pale red, with brown neck and
p plum pluuum, plm pllluuuuuuum plm plum plm, plum pluum plum plm

black head. They pierce and drop with the fruit, seek shelter in the
pllum plum. Plum plllum plm plum plum plm pllum, plum pllluum pl plm

bark, where they spin a cocoon and pass the winter. If the trees have
plum, pluum plum plum p plluum plm plum plm plluum. Pl plm pllum plum

been scraped, then washed with a mixture of lime and soot, paraffin and
plum pllllum, plum plllum plum p pluuuum pl plum plm plum, plllluum plm

grease (see No. III. pears), or sprayed before the buds open with
pluuum (plm Pl. PLM. pluum), pl pluuuum pluuum plm plum plum plum

Bordeaux mixture (see No. II.), and also afterwards, they probably will
Plllllum pllluum (plm Pl. PL.), plm plum pllluuuuum, plum plluuuum plum

not suffer. Lime and soot scattered over the ground under the trees will
plm plluum. Plum plm plum pllluuuum plum plm plllum pllum plm pllum plum

also be useful. If the plums are attacked, collect all fallen fruits and
plum pl pluuum. Pl plm pluum plm pllluuum, pluuuum plm plllum plllum plm

shake the trees every morning, burn the fruits affected or give them to
pluum plm pluum pluum pllluum, plum plm plluum pluuuuum pl plum plum pl

the pigs.
plm plum.




3. The PLUM SAWFLY also attacks the fruit, laying an egg in the
p. Plm PLUM PLLUUM plum pllluum plm pllum, plluum pl plm pl plm

calyx of each flower. The grub is whitish, with brown head. It enters
pluum pl plum plllum. Plm plum pl pluuuum, plum pluum plum. Pl pluuum

the fruits, feeds on the stone, and causes them to drop. A spraying of
plm plluum, pllum pl plm pluum, plm plllum plum pl plum. P pllluuum pl

the modified mixture No. II. after the fruit has set would be useful,
plm plllllum plluuum Pl. PL. pllum plm pluum plm plm pluum pl plllum,

but as the grub pupates in the soil, lime and soot will again be
plm pl plm plum pllluum pl plm plum, plum plm plum plum pluum pl

serviceable. Collect and destroy fallen fruit daily.
pllluuuuuum. Plluuum plm plluuum pluuum pllum pllum.




4. RED SPIDER, a spinning mite, is a great pest in dry summers.
p. PLM PLUUUM, p pllluuum plum, pl p pllum plum pl plm plluuum.

It must be checked by the free use of the syringe or water engine as
Pl plum pl pllluum pl plm plum plm pl plm pllluum pl pluum plluum pl

soon as seen. Yellow spots on the leaves are a proof of its presence.
plum pl plum. Plllum pllum pl plm pluuum plm p pllum pl plm plllllum.

Mix 4 gallons of soft soap solution with ½ lb. of flowers of sulphur;
Plm p pllluum pl plum plum plllluum plum p pl. pl pllllum pl pllllum;

apply with syringe. Strong soap-suds, or even clear water forcibly given
pllum plum plluuum. Plluum plum-plum, pl plum pllum pluum pluuuuum pluum

are better than nothing.
plm pluuum plum pllluum.




FUNGOID ATTACKS injure the trees. The Bordeaux mixture (No.
PLLLLUM PLLUUUM plluum plm pluum. Plm Plllluum pluuuum (Pl.

II.) is the best preventive and remedy if there are any signs of fungus.
PL.) pl plm plum plllluuuum plm pluuum pl pllum plm plm pluum pl plllum.

Cut away all diseased twigs, boughs and branches, and burn them. Fungus
Plm plum plm plllllum pluum, plllum plm plllllum, plm plum plum. Plllum

spores are scattered by the wind and spread the disease. Drench the
pluuum plm pllluuuum pl plm plum plm plluum plm pluuuum. Plllum plm

trunk and bark in winter with this mixture before the buds swell. Care
pllum plm plum pl pluuum plum plum pluuuum plluum plm plum pllum. Plum

must be taken not to apply the mixture in full strength to tender leaves
plum pl pllum plm pl pluum plm plluuum pl plum plluuuum pl plllum pluuum

and buds.
plm plum.




For the fungus mildew, half an ounce of sulphide of potassium mixed in a
Plm plm plllum plluum, plum pl pluum pl plluuuum pl pluuuuuum pllum pl p

gallon of water and applied by a syringe is recommended (Wright).
pluuum pl pluum plm plluuum pl p pluuuum pl plllluuuuum (Plllum).

Finely-powdered quick-lime mixed with sulphur (double the quantity of
Plllum-pllluuum pluum-plum pluum plum plluuum (plluum plm pluuuuum pl

the former), and distributed by a special bellows (see before, page 39),
plm plllum), plm pllllllluum pl p pllluum pllluum (plm pluuum, plum pl),

is also said to be a good remedy.
pl plum plum pl pl p plum plllum.







ORCHARD HOUSE
PLLUUUM PLUUM




For dimensions see under pears. Plums are best in pots or tubs, as they
Plm pllluuuuum plm pllum pllum. Pluum plm plum pl plum pl plum, pl plum

can be taken out when at rest. They are very liable to attacks from
plm pl pllum plm plum pl plum. Plum plm plum pluuum pl pllllum plum

aphides, but the insecticide for pears in pots is good also for plums.
pluuuum, plm plm pluuuuuuuum plm pluum pl plum pl plum plum plm pllum.

The house must be fumigated, and the trees syringed on the least
Plm pllum plum pl pllllluum, plm plm pllum plllluum pl plm pluum

appearance of aphis. Place the pots on bricks (_v._ pears). When growth
plllllllum pl pllum. Pllum plm plum pl plllum (pl.p pllum). Plum pluuum

is being started the temperature should be from 45° at night to 50° by
pl pluum pllllum plm pllluuuuuum plllum pl plum pl° pl pllum pl pl° pl

day. Soft or tepid water should be given freely. Fumigate again just
plm. Plum pl pllum pluum plllum pl pluum plluum. Plllluum pluum plum

before the flowers come out. As the buds increase, raise the temperature
pluuum plm pluuuum plum plm. Pl plm plum plluuuum, pluum plm plllluuuuum

5° to 10° and syringe once or twice a day with tepid water. But a dry
p° pl pl° plm pluuuum plum pl pllum p plm plum pllum pllum. Plm p plm

atmosphere is important while the trees are in flower. Admit air as well
plluuuuuum pl plllluuum pllum plm pluum plm pl pluuum. Pluum plm pl plum

as bees in the forenoon, and pass a camel-hair or light brush over the
pl plum pl plm plllllum, plm plum p pluum-plum pl pluum pluum plum plm

flowers about the middle of the day. When the fruit is set, syringe at
pllllum pluum plm plllum pl plm plm. Plum plm pluum pl plm, pllluum pl

least once a day; if the weather is hot, twice or even three times a
pluum plum p plm; pl plm pllluum pl plm, pluum pl plum pllum pluum p

day, and give all the air possible. Thin the fruits (if the crop is
plm, plm plum plm plm plm plllluum. Plum plm pluuum (pl plm plum pl

large) with scissors; mulch and feed with weak liquid manure (see
pluum) plum plllllum; pluum plm plum plum plum plllum plllum (plm

pears). The shoots must be pinched if the trees are of any age, at the
pllum). Plm plluum plum pl pluuuum pl plm pluum plm pl plm plm, pl plm

fifth or sixth leaf. Not much heat is needed generally, but when the
pllum pl pluum plum. Plm plum plum pl plllum pllluuuum, plm plum plm

stoning period is passed, the ripening process may be hastened by a
pluuuum pluuum pl plllum, plm pluuuuum pllluum plm pl pluuuuum pl p

higher temperature. The house may be closed at an earlier hour if
pluuum plllluuuuum. Plm pllum plm pl pluuum pl pl pllllum plum pl

necessary. Avoid extremes. As the fruits ripen, cease gradually to
plluuuuum. Pluum pllluuum. Pl plm plluum pllum, pllum plllluuum pl

syringe, but keep the house moist by sprinkling water over the paths,
pllluum, plm plum plm pluum pluum pl pllluuuuum pluum plum plm pllum,

etc. Choose the choicest dessert sorts: Early Transparent, Dennistoun's
plm. Pluuum plm plllluum pllllum pllum: Pllum Pllllllluum, Pllluuuuum'p

Superb, July Greengage, Jefferson, Count Althann, Coe's Golden Drop,
Pluuum, Plum Plllluuum, Plluuuuum, Pllum Pllllum, Plm'p Plllum Plum,

Guthrie's Late Green, Angelina Burdett, Bryanstone Gage, and Golden
Pluuuum'p Plum Pluum, Plluuuum Pllllum, Pllllluuum Plum, plm Pluuum

Transparent; and if darker colours are desired: Early Prolific, Belgian
Pllllllluum; plm pl plllum pluuuum plm pllluum: Pllum Plllluum, Pllluum

Purple and Czar. Bryanston Gage was recommended by the R.H.S. in 1892,
Pluuum plm Plum. Pllllluum Plum plm plluuuuuuum pl plm P.P.P. pl plum,

and is a very richly-flavoured dessert variety, but is not a good
plm pl p plum plluum-pluuuuuum plluuum pllluum, plm pl plm p plum

cropper in the open, and needs a wall or house.
pluuuum pl plm plum, plm pllum p plum pl pllum.







DAMSONS
PLLUUUM




are often very valuable, and also make good outside hedges. Bradley's
plm pluum plum plllluum, plm plum plum plum pluuuum plluum. Plluuum'p

"King of the Damsons" is the best. The fruit is large, the tree
"Plum pl plm Plluuum" pl plm plum. Plm pllum pl pllum, plm plum

"free-cropping, bushy, vigorous, erect." R. September 20. Frogmore
"plum-pluuuuum, pllum, plllllum, pllum." P. Plllluuum pl. Plluuuum

Prolific (earlier) is also large and free-bearing. R. September 9. Both
Pluuuuum (pllllum) pl plum pluum plm plum-pllllum. P. Plluuuuum p. Plum

these are late. Mirabelle and Rivers' Early Damson are August damsons,
pluum plm plum. Plllluuum plm Pluuum' Pluum Plllum plm Plluum pluuuum,

small, the former vigorous.
pllum, plm plluum plluuuum.







BULLACES
PLLUUUUM




Shepherd's is the best, and hangs late on the tree. A few trees in a
Plllllum'p pl plm plum, plm pluum plum pl plm plum. P plm pluum pl p

large garden are useful. R. September 20.
pllum plluum plm plllum. P. Pllllllum pl.







IMPORTANT POINTS
PLLLLUUUM PLUUUM




Good sorts on suitable stocks in good soil and proper aspect; lime in
Plum pllum pl plllluum plllum pl plum plum plm plluum plllum; plum pl

the soil, added or otherwise; winter washing or spraying; thinning
plm plum, pllum pl pluuuuuum; plllum pllluum pl plllluum; plluuuum

fruit; early training; moderate pruning; root-pruning in very strong
pllum; pluum pluuuuum; plllllum pllluum; plum-plluuum pl plum plllum

soils; lifting in shallow soils; liquid and other manures; immediate
pluum; pluuuum pl pluuuum pllum; plluum plm pluum plluuum; pllllluum

action if aphides or red spider appear.
plluum pl pluuuum pl plm plllum plluum.







DRYING BY EVAPORATION
PLLUUM PL PLLLLLUUUUM




This important subject cannot be treated here at length. In a hot season
Plum pluuuuuum pluuuum plllum pl pllluum plum pl plllum. Pl p plm plluum

with abundant crops, good results may be obtained with some prospect of
plum plllllum pluum, plum plluuum plm pl plllluum plum plum plllluum pl

profit. But the apparatus has been expensive. Mr Udale's Report to the
pluuum. Plm plm pllluuuum plm plum pllllllum. Pl Pluum'p Plluum pl plm

Worcestershire _C.C._ on dried fruits, vegetables and herbs, with the
Pluuuuuuuuuuum PL.P.p pl pluum pluuum, pllluuuuum plm pluum, plum plm

article in _Journal of R.H.S._, vol. xxvi., part ii., should be
pllluum pl pLluuuum pl P.P.P.p, plm. plum., plum pl., plluum pl

consulted, and "Fruit Preserving," by R.L.C., in Watson, vol. v.
pllllllum, plm "Pluum Plllluuuum," pl P.P.P., pl Pluuum, plm. p.

Thick-skinned plums, _e.g._, Czar, Prince Englebert, Diamond and Monarch
Pllum-pllllum pllum, pl.p.p, Plum, Pluuum Pllluuuum, Pllllum plm Pluuuum

are best for the purpose. Plums placed on trays, dried in a very slow
plm plum plm plm pluuuum. Pluum plluum pl pluum, pluum pl p plum plum

oven, and allowed to cool several times, are often equal to French
plum, plm pllluum pl plum plluuum pllum, plm pllum pllum pl Plllum

prunes.
plllum.







BOTTLING
PLLLLUUM




This is a simple and most useful process. Plums well bottled will last
Plum pl p plluum plm plum pluuum pllluum. Pllum plum pllluum plum plum

for years. Gather clean and dry fruit before it is quite ripe, that the
plm pllum. Plllum pllum plm plm pluum plluum pl pl pllum plum, plum plm

heat may not crack the plums. Remove the stalks and pack closely in
plum plm plm pluum plm pllum. Plluum plm plllum plm plum pllluum pl

bottles not over 11 inches high, without bruising, up to shoulder of
pllluum plm plum pl pluuum plum, plluuum pluuuuum, pl pl pllluuum pl

bottle. Provide a boiler a foot deep; place hay or canvas at the bottom,
plluum. Plluuum p pluuum p plum plum; pllum plm pl plllum pl plm pluuum,

then put the bottles in the boiler with hay or canvas around them to
plum plm plm pllllum pl plm plluum plum plm pl pluuum pluuum plum pl

prevent fracture. Now fill the boiler up to the necks of the bottles,
plluuum pluuuuum. Plm plum plm plluum pl pl plm pluum pl plm plluuum,

and place it on a slow fire. Heat very gradually until the water is at
plm pluum pl pl p plum plum. Plum plum pllllllum pluum plm pluum pl pl

boiling point. Then take each bottle out with a cloth, fill with boiling
pluuuum pluum. Plum plum plum plluum plm plum p pllum, plum plum pllluum

water kept close at hand, and cover _while boiling_ with air-tight
pluum plum pllum pl plum, plm pluum pluuum pllluuum plum plm-pluum

stoppers. Another method is to fill the bottles nearly full with cold
plluuuum. Pluuuum pluuum pl pl plum plm plluuum plluum plum plum plum

water or thin syrup, and boil for fifteen minutes. Messrs De Luca have
pluum pl plum pllum, plm plum plm plluuum pluuuum. Pluuum Pl Plum plum

received silver and bronze medals from the R.H.S. for self-closing
plllluum plluum plm plluum pluuum plum plm P.P.P. plm plum-pllluum

bottles now sold by Messrs Abbott of Southall, near London. Their method
pllllum plm plum pl Pluuum Plllum pl Plluuuum, plum Plluum. Pllum pluuum

is as follows: "Pour in water or cold thin syrup (one tablespoonful of
pl pl pllllum: "Plum pl pluum pl plum plum pluum (plm plllllluuuuum pl

crystalised cane-sugar to the pint) sufficient to cover the fruit.
pllllllluum plum-pluum pl plm plum) plluuuuuum pl pllum plm pluum.

Adjust the indiarubber in the groove made for it on neck of the bottle,
Plllum plm pllluuuuuum pl plm pluuum plum plm pl pl plum pl plm plluum,

place the disc on it, and _lightly_ screw down the outer ring. (Steam
pllum plm plum pl pl, plm pluuuuuum pluum plum plm pluum plum. (Pluum

must be allowed to escape.) Boil as before for twenty minutes; take out
plum pl pllllum pl pluuum.) Plum pl plllum plm pluuum pluuuum; plum plm

each bottle, and at once screw the outer ring as tightly as possible.
plum pluuum, plm pl plum pllum plm pllum plum pl pllluum pl pllluuum.

Leave bottles until cold. Next day examine by unscrewing the outer ring,
Pllum plluuum pluum plum. Plum plm pluuuum pl pllllluuum plm pluum plum,

and try whether the disc is firmly fastened down. If so, replace the
plm plm pllllum plm plum pl plllum pluuuuum plum. Pl pl, plluuum plm

ring, screw down tightly and store away in a cool place, standing them
plum, pluum plum plluuum plm pluum plum pl p plum pluum, plluuuum plum

upright. The bottles by having new discs and indiarubber rings may be
plluuum. Plm pluuuum pl plllum plm pluum plm plllllluuum pluum plm pl

frequently used."
plllluuuum plum."




The Rev. W. Wilks, secretary of the R.H.S., recommends pears, especially
Plm Plm. P. Pluum, pllllluum pl plm P.P.P., pllluuuuum pllum, pllluuuuum

Pitmaston D., as suitable for bottling. "Bottled it is delicious." He
Pllllluum P., pl pllluuum plm plllllum. "Pllluum pl pl plluuuuum." Pl

thinks fifteen minutes from the time the water boils sufficient for
plluum pllllum plluuum plum plm plum plm pllum pllum pluuuuuuum plm

plums. Messrs De Luca mention an hour as the time for pears.
pllum. Plllum Pl Plum plluuum pl plum pl plm plum plm pluum.




Messrs Lee & Co. of 19 Knightrider St., Maidstone, have received medals
Pluuum Plm & Pl. pl pl Pllllluuuum Pl., Pllllluum, plum plllllum pluuum

from the R.H.S. and others for their fruit bottling apparatus and
plum plm P.P.P. plm pluuum plm pllum pluum pllluuum pllllllum plm

bottled fruit.
pllluum pllum.




They supply a patent economic fruit bottling apparatus at 21s. A
Plum plllum p plluum plllluum pllum pllluuum plllluuum pl plm. P

thermometer at the side records the temperature of the bottles and of
pllllllllum pl plm plum plluuum plm pllllllluum pl plm plluuum plm pl

their contents. The following is the method given in the _Journal of the
pluum plluuuum. Plm plllluuum pl plm plllum pluum pl plm pLuuuuum pl plm

R.H.S._
P.P.P.p




"The fruit must, of course, be fresh and good and the bottles clean. The
"Plm pllum plum, pl pluuum, pl pluum plm plum plm plm pluuuum pluum. Plm

fruit is first packed into the bottles, which are then filled up to the
pllum pl pllum plluum plum plm plluuum, pluum plm plum plllum pl pl plm

neck with cold water, or if preferred, with thin syrup made by
plum plum plum pluum, pl pl pllllluum, plum plum pluum plum pl

dissolving ½ lb. of loaf-sugar in hot water and leaving it to cool.
plllllllum p pl. pl plum-pluum pl plm pllum plm pluuuum pl pl plum.

The bottles are then put into the cooking pot where they must remain for
Plm pllluum plm plum plm plum plm pllluum plm pluum plum plum pluuum plm

certainly not less than two hours at a temperature of between a minimum
pllllllum plm plum plum plm pllum pl p plluuuuuuum pl pllluum p pllllum

of 145 degrees and a maximum of 160 degrees. This low sterilising
pl plm pllluum plm p pllllum pl plm pllluum. Plum plm plluuuuuuum

temperature being maintained for two, three, or four hours will destroy
pluuuuuuuum pluum plluuuuuum plm plm, pluum, pl plum pluum plum pllluum

all germs without cooking the fruit, and is the great secret of
plm pllum plluuum pluuuum plm pluum, plm pl plm pluum plluum pl

successful bottling. No actual harm is done by the heat rising above 160
plllllluum plluuuum. Pl plluum plum pl plum pl plm plum plllum pluum plm

degrees, but if it does the fruit will probably burst, lose its shape,
pllllum, plm pl pl plum plm pluum plum plllluum pllum, plum plm pllum,

and not look so nice. Vegetables may be preserved in exactly the same
plm plm plum pl plum. Plllllllum plm pl pllluuuum pl pllluum plm plum

way, but they must be done twice over with an interval of twenty-four
plm, plm plum plum pl plum pllum plum plum pl plluuuum pl plllum-plum

hours to allow of their becoming quite cold. Jams and fruit jellies can
pluum pl pllum pl pllum plllluum pluum plum. Plum plm pluum pluuuum plm

be preserved fresh and good for years in the same way."
pl pllluuuum pluum plm plum plm pllum pl plm plum plm."




Success in bottling and preserving fruit depends chiefly on two points:
Pluuuum pl pluuuuum plm plllllluum pluum plluuum pllllum pl plm plluum:

(1) The destruction of every germ of mildew, etc., by keeping the
(p) Plm plllluuuuum pl pluum plum pl plluum, plm., pl pllluum plm

bottles at a certain temperature for a certain time; (2) the absolute
pllluum pl p pllluum pllluuuuuum plm p pluuuum plum; (p) plm plllllum

prevention of any possible re-entry of air into the bottles afterwards.
plllllllum pl plm plllllum pl-pllum pl plm plum plm pluuuum plllllllum.

The bottles must be hermetically sealed while in the steam or standing
Plm pluuuum plum pl pllluuuuuuum plluum pluum pl plm pluum pl pluuuuum

in almost boiling water (see _Journal R.H.S._, vol. xxvi. part iii. p.
pl plllum plluuum pluum (plm pLllllum P.P.P.p, plm. plum. plum plm. p.

365).
plm).




BOTTLING OR CANNING IN SYRUP.--This is done by boiling together
PLLLLUUM PL PLLLUUM PL PLUUM.--Plum pl plum pl pllllum plllllum

at the rate of 3 lbs. of cane-sugar to 1 quart of water and the white of
pl plm plum pl p plm. pl plum-pllum pl p pluum pl pluum plm plm pluum pl

1 egg; pour the fruit whole into the syrup while boiling, and continue
p plm; plum plm pllum pluum plum plm pluum pluum pllluum, plm plllllum

to boil together for only a few minutes, then pour into bottles or cans,
pl plum plllllum plm plum p plm pllluum, plum plum plum pluuuum pl plum,

and stopper or seal air-tight immediately whilst boiling. Pears may be
plm pllluum pl plum plm-pluum pllllluuuum plllum pllllum. Pluum plm pl

preserved in the same way. Cheal, _Journal of R.H.S._, vol. xxi. 1.
plllluuum pl plm plum plm. Pllum, pLuuuuum pl P.P.P.p, plm. plm. p.




PLUM JAM makes a rich preserve. Take equal quantities of fruit
PLUM PLM pluum p plum plllluum. Plum pllum pllllluuum pl pluum

and cane-sugar; boil quickly half to three-quarters of an hour, then put
plm plum-pluum; plum pluuuum plum pl pllum-plllluum pl pl plum, plum plm

into hot jars and cover well at once. Exclude the air as much as
plum plm plum plm pllum plum pl plum. Plluuum plm plm pl plum pl

possible. The colour of the flesh is said to make a difference in the
plluuuum. Plm plllum pl plm pluum pl plum pl plum p plllllluum pl plm

sale. Red jam is usually preferred, but greengage is also popular. Coe's
plum. Plm plm pl pluuuum plllluuum, plm pllllluum pl plum pllllum. Plm'p

Golden Drop or Autumn Compôte (September, hardy, fairly productive, but
Plluum Plum pl Plllum Pllllum (Pluuuuuum, pllum, plluum pluuuuuuum, plm

the fruit often splits) are good for yellow ("Amber"--Dr Hogg) jam;
plm pluum pllum plllum) plm plum plm pluuum ("Pluum"--Pl Plum) plm;

Belle de Septembre (September, "a good late cooking variety," good
Pluum pl Plllluuum (Pluuuuuum, "p plum plum pllllum pllllum," plum

bearer, but fruit prone to split) for crimson colour. Free-stones are
plluum, plm pllum pllum pl pluum) plm pluuuum plluum. Plum-plluum plm

better than cling-stones. The following are free-stones: Bittern, Coe's
plllum plum pluum-plluum. Plm plluuuuum plm plum-plluum: Pllllum, Plm'p

Late Red ("fruit small, good bearer, a very useful late cooking plum"),
Plum Plm ("pllum pllum, plum plllum, p plum plllum plum plluuum plum"),

Early Orleans, Early Transparent Gage, Old Greengage, Orleans, Oullin's
Pluum Pllluum, Pluum Pllllluuuum Plum, Plm Pllllluum, Pllluum, Plllum'p

Golden Gage, Red Magnum Bonum, Comte d'Althann, Victoria. The following
Pluuum Plum, Plm Plluum Pllum, Pllum p'Pllllum, Pluuuuum. Plm plllluuum

are nearly so: Early Prolific, Czar, Cox's Emperor, Jefferson.
plm plluum pl: Pllum Plluuuum, Plum, Plm'p Pllluum, Pllllllum.




Belle de Septembre is a cling-stone. Damsons make good jam, the colour
Pluum pl Pluuuuuum pl p pllum-pllum. Pllllum plum plum plm, plm plluum

being a dark rich red.
pllum p plum plum plm.







PLUM JELLY
PLUM PLUUM




Plums are rich in "vegetable jelly." 1. Boil alone for half-an-hour,
Pllum plm plum pl "plluuuuum pllum." p. Plum pllum plm plum-pl-plum,

then strain the juice through a fine sieve or cloth; add 2 lbs. of
plum plllum plm pluum pllluum p plum pllum pl pllum; plm p plm. pl

cane-sugar to each quart of juice, boil again for twenty minutes, pour
plum-pluum pl plum pluum pl pluum, plum pluum plm pluuum plluuum, plum

into jars and glasses, cover at once. A firm, clear and bright jelly
plum plum plm pluuuum, pllum pl plum. P plum, pllum plm pluuum pluum

should result (Watson).
pluuum plllum (Pluuum).




2. "During the preserving season I generally have a few pots of jelly
p. "Pluuum plm plllllllum plluum P pllllluum plum p plm plum pl pluum

made from each pan of preserves without spoiling my jams. I make
plum plum plum plm pl pluuuuuum plluuum plllluum pl plum. P plum

currant, gooseberry, and plum jelly this way.
pluuuum, pluuuuuuum, plm plum pluum plum plm.




"For all common preserves I allow ¾ of a pound of loaf-sugar to each
"Plm plm plllum pllllllum P pllum p pl p pluum pl plum-pllum pl plum

pound of fruit. The sugar must be broken small. Put the fruit and sugar
pluum pl pllum. Plm pllum plum pl pluuum pllum. Plm plm pllum plm pluum

into your pan, let the sugar melt, then boil quickly for twenty to
plum plum plm, plm plm pllum plum, plum plum pllluum plm pluuum pl

thirty minutes. Skim carefully, take the pan off the fire, take from it
pluuum pluuuum. Plum pllllllum, plum plm plm plm plm plum, plum plum pl

three or four cupfuls of juice, or as much as you think can be spared
pluum pl plum plluuum pl pluum, pl pl plum pl plm pllum plm pl plluum

without making your jam dry. Strain the juice through a small gravy
plluuum pluuum plum plm plm. Plllum plm pllum pllllum p pllum pluum

sieve into small jars. This will be found to jelly well. In this way a
pluum plum pluum plum. Plum plum pl pllum pl pllum plum. Pl plum plm p

nice stock of jelly can be procured, and no fruit is wasted." (From
plum pluum pl pllum plm pl pllluuum, plm pl pluum pl pluuum." (Plum

Weldon's "Menu Cookery Book," 1s., published by Weldon, 31 Southampton
Plllum'p "Plum Plluuum Plum," pl., pluuuuuum pl Pluuum, pl Pllllllllum

Street, Strand.)
Plllum, Plluum.)




FOOTNOTES:
PLLLLLLUM:




[9] The dates refer to the time when the fruits were "ready" (ripe, fit
[p] Plm pluum pllum pl plm plum plum plm pluuum plum "pluum" (plum, plm

for gathering) at the Chiswick Garden of the R.H.S.
plm pluuuuuum) pl plm Pluuuuum Plllum pl plm P.P.P.




[10] From Watson, vol. v. p. 369.
[pl] Plum Pluuum, plm. p. p. plm.




[11] For many useful details see Watson, vol. v.
[pl] Plm plum pluuum pllluum plm Plluum, plm. p.













CHERRIES
PLLLUUUM







It is useless to plant cherries unless the fruit can be protected from
Pl pl pluuuum pl pluum plllllum plluum plm pluum plm pl plllluuum plum

the birds. The cost of "keeping" a few trees would absorb all profit. In
plm pllum. Plm plum pl "pllllum" p plm pluum pluum pluuum plm plllum. Pl

planting for sale, select two or three varieties only; and these should
plllllum plm plum, pluuum plm pl pllum pluuuuuum plum; plm pllum plluum

come in together, if possible, to lessen the cost of "keep." They should
plum pl pluuuuum, pl plllllum, pl pluuum plm plum pl "plum." Plum plluum

be intermingled, for reasons already mentioned (see pears, p. 12).
pl plllllllluum, plm plluuum pluuuum plluuuuum (plm pllum, p. pl).




Cherries like a deep, mellow, and rather sandy soil, but they also
Pluuuuum plum p plum, plluum, plm plllum pluum plum, plm plum plum

thrive on a good loam lying on chalk. Stiff moist soils and dry gravelly
plluum pl p plum plum pluum pl pluum. Pllum pluum pllum plm plm pluuuuum

soils are not suitable. The trees require much moisture, especially
pllum plm plm pllluuum. Plm pluum pllluum plum plluuuum, plluuuuuum

sorts with large leaves, such as the Bigarreau and Heart Cherries. Plant
pluum plum pluum plluum, plum pl plm Pllllllum plm Pluum Plllllum. Pluum

varieties to suit the soil. Inquire carefully what sorts do best in your
pllluuuum pl plum plm plum. Pluuuum plllluuum plum pllum pl plum pl plum

neighbourhood. Cherries do well in open ground, not shaded nor in a
plluuuuuuuuum. Plllluum pl plum pl plum plluum, plm pluuum plm pl p

valley. They prefer a south aspect, but Morellos thrive on a north wall.
plllum. Plum plluum p pllum plllum, plm Plllllum plluum pl p pllum plum.

Kentish and Late Duke might also be tried there. Plant as you would
Pluuuum plm Plum Plum pluum plum pl pllum pluum. Pluum pl plm pllum

pears or plums. Protect your trees from rabbits by wire, and from cattle
pluum pl pluum. Pllluum plum pluum plum pllllum pl plum, plm plum pluuum

by "cradles," 6 feet high at least,[12] or iron guards. Cattle fed on
pl "pluuuum," p plum plum pl pllum,[pl] pl plum pluuum. Plllum plm pl

cake are useful in cherry orchards, and improve the produce.
plum plm plluum pl plluum plllluum, plm pluuuum plm pllllum.




CHERRIES FOR EATING, recommended by R.H.S. in 1892, are:--
PLLLUUUM PLM PLLLUM, plllllluuum pl P.P.P. pl plum, plm:--




_a._ DUKES.--(1) _May Duke_, dark red and early; (2) _Archduke_
pl.p PLUUM.--(p) pLum Pluum, plum plm plm pllum; (p) pLlllluuum

(large blackish red), mid-season, both tender-skinned, and so beloved by
(pllum plluuuum plm), plm-pluuum, plum plluum-plluuum, plm pl pllllum pl

birds. Both are close growers.
pllum. Plum plm pluum pllllum.




_b._ YELLOW-FRUITED (_i.e._ White Heart or Bigarreau).--(1)
pl.p PLLUUM-PLUUUUM (pl.p.p Pluum Pllum pl Pllluuuum).--(p)

_Elton_, very early, good on heavy soil, tree spreading; (2) _Kent
pLlluum, plum pllum, plum pl pluum plum, plum plllluuum; (p) pLlum

Bigarreau_, early, large, hardy, makes a large tree, best for general
Plllllluum, pllum, pllum, pllum, pluum p pllum plum, plum plm pllluum

crop.
plum.




_c._ BLACK-FRUITED.--(1) _Black Eagle_, very large, travels
pl.p PLLUM-PLLUUUM.--(p) pLllum Plluum, plum pllum, plluuum

well, free grower, mid-season; (2) _Early Rivers_, first-rate, earliest
plum, plum pluuum, plm-plluum; (p) pLuuum Pllllum, pllum-plum, plluuuum

black, a good cropper and grower.
pllum, p plum pllllum plm plluum.




COOKING CHERRIES.--(1) _Kentish_, bright red, mid-season, a
PLLLUUM PLLLUUUM.--(p) pLluuuuum, plllum plm, plm-pluuum, p

compact grower, best for jam; (2) _Morello_, very late, only fit for
pllllum pluuum, plum plm plm; (p) pLuuuuuum, plum plum, plum plm plm

wall, fence, or bush.
plum, pluum, pl plum.




Other good sorts are _Governor Wood_ (mottled red, early) and _Black
Pllum plum pluum plm pLllluuum Pluum (pllluum plm, pllum) plm pLllum

Tartarian_, a strong grower, fruit large, late. _Florence_ is very large
Pluuuuuuum, p plluum plllum, pllum pluum, plum. pLuuuuuuum pl plum pllum

and late, succeeding the Bigarreau, but requires a warm soil and aspect.
plm plum, plllllllum plm Pllluuuum, plm plluuuum p plum plum plm plllum.




Where there is no wall, Morellos and other sorts should be planted as
Pllum pluum pl pl plum, Plllluum plm pllum pllum plllum pl plluuum pl

bushes in a garden 5 or 6 feet apart. They should be covered with nets
plllum pl p pluuum p pl p plum pluum. Plum plllum pl pllllum plum plum

when the fruit is colouring. Morellos last a long while on a north wall,
plum plm pllum pl pllluuuum. Plluuuum plum p plum pluum pl p pluum plum,

protected by a net. These are often in great demand, and in a plantation
pllluuuum pl p plm. Pluum plm pluum pl pluum plllum, plm pl p pllluuuuum

succeed as standards. But the cost of "keeping" for a long time would be
plluuum pl pllluuuum. Plm plm plum pl "plluuum" plm p plum plum pluum pl

excessive.
pluuuuuum.







PRUNING AND TRAINING
PLUUUUM PLM PLLUUUUM




Allow the trees to grow a year before pruning them. Then cut back the
Pllum plm pluum pl plum p plum plluum pllluum plum. Plum plm plum plm

branches to about 1 foot in length to an outer eye; the Bigarreau to 15
plluuuum pl pllum p plum pl pluuum pl pl pluum plm; plm Pluuuuuum pl pl

inches. Encourage two shoots from each branch, one at the end, the other
plluum. Pllluuuum plm pluuum plum plum pluuum, plm pl plm plm, plm pllum

3 inches from the stem, and on the outside. Thus the branches will not
p pluuum plum plm plum, plm pl plm plluuum. Plum plm plluuuum plum plm

grow into each other. Maintain the chief branches at nearly equal length
plum plum plum pluum. Plllllum plm pllum pllluuum pl pluuum pluum plluum

for some years. Standards do not require much pruning. Cut back in
plm plum pluum. Pllllllum pl plm pllllum plum plluuum. Plm plum pl

summer (July) all shoots crowding the tree or threatening to cross
plluum (Plum) plm plllum plllluum plm plum pl plllluuuuum pl pluum

others. In winter look over the trees again. Keep the trees open to
plllum. Pl pluuum plum plum plm pluum pluum. Plum plm pluum plum pl

sun and air. Cherries on wall should be on the fan system, and pinched
plm plm plm. Plluuuum pl plum plllum pl pl plm plm plllum, plm pluuuum

back in July. The branches should be 9 inches apart for Duke Cherries,
plum pl Plum. Plm plllllum pluuum pl p plllum pluum plm Plum Pllluuum,

12 for Bigarreau. If trained horizontally or as espaliers, shorten the
pl plm Plllluuum. Pl plluuum plllllllllum pl pl pluuuuuum, pluuuum plm

shoots on the upper branches a week or two before those on the lower.
plluum pl plm pluum pllluuum p plum pl plm plluum pluum pl plm pluum.

Keep the shoots near the wall. When sufficient main branches are formed
Plum plm plllum plum plm plum. Plum pllllluuum plum plluuuum plm plllum

to cover the wall, do not cut back the leaders again. Be sparing with
pl pluum plm plum, pl plm plm plum plm pluuuum pluum. Pl pluuuum plum

the knife. After two or three years fruit spurs will form, but not much
plm pllum. Pllum plm pl pllum pllum pluum pluum plum plum, plm plm plum

surplus wood. Morellos require special treatment. The fruit is usually
pllluum plum. Plllluum pluuuum pluuuum pllluuuum. Plm pllum pl pllllum

found on the wood of the previous year. Train young shoots in to replace
pluum pl plm plum pl plm plluuuum plum. Pluum pllum pluuum pl pl pllllum

the old, and cut out, when the fruit is off, all the old that can be
plm plm, plm plm plm, plum plm pllum pl plm, plm plm plm plum plm pl

spared. In standards, pyramids and bushes, thin out the branches.
plluum. Pl plllluuum, plluuuum plm plllum, plum plm plm plluuuum.




[Illustration: A CHERRY ORCHARD]
[Pllllluuuuum: P PLUUUM PLLLUUM]




APHIDES are the chief enemy, especially on walls. Syringe with
PLUUUUM plm plm pluum pllum, plllllluum pl pluum. Plluuum plum

tobacco water made by pouring 1 gallon of soft boiling water on 2 ozs.
pllluum pluum plum pl pllllum p plllum pl plum pluuuum pluum pl p plm.

of strong shag tobacco; add 2 ozs. of soft soap to the water when poured
pl plllum plum plluuum; plm p plm. pl plum plum pl plm pluum plum plllum

on the tobacco. Strain off and use cold. This solution is also good
pl plm pllluum. Plluum plm plm plm plum. Plum pluuuuum pl plum plum

against the pear slug-worm, which attacks cherries as well as pears.
pluuuum plm plum plum-plum, pllum pluuuum pllluuum pl plum pl pllum.

Follow this prescription by a good syringing of cold water the following
Plluum plum pllllluuuuum pl p plum plllluuum pl plum pllum plm pllluuuum

morning. The roots of cherries are near the surface so that the ground
pllllum. Plm pluum pl pllluuum plm plum plm pllllum pl plum plm plllum

above them must not be dug.
pllum plum plum plm pl plm.







STANDARDS
PLLLLLLUM




in strong soil should be 30 feet apart, 24 feet in lighter ground. They
pl pluuum plum plllum pl pl plum pluum, pl plum pl plluuum plllum. Plum

are best on grass which is used for pasture. The trees then should be 30
plm plum pl pllum pllum pl plum plm pllluum. Plm pluum plum plllum pl pl

feet from each other. The Kentish Red are sometimes 15 or 18 feet only.
plum plum plum pllum. Plm Pllluum Plm plm pllllluum pl pl pl plum plum.

Between standards at 24 feet apart bush trees of various kinds may be
Pllluum pllluuuum pl pl plum pluum plum pluum pl pluuuum pluum plm pl

planted (apples, pears, plums), the two former on dwarfing stocks; there
plluuum (pluuum, pluum, pllum), plm plm plluum pl pluuuuum pluuum; pluum

should be two between each standard 8 feet apart.
plluum pl plm pluuuum plum plllllum p plum pllum.




Ordinary manure is not often given. It may cause rank growth. Dr
Pllluuum pluuum pl plm pllum pllum. Pl plm pllum plum pluuum. Pl

Griffiths recommends the following artificials: 3 parts weight of
Pllllllum plllllllum plm pllllluum pllllllluum: p pluum plllum pl

kainit, 2 parts of superphosphate, 1 part of nitrate of soda. Three lbs.
pluuum, p pllum pl plllllllluuuum, p plum pl plluuum pl plum. Pluum plm.

of this mixture should be applied to each tree shortly before active
pl plum pllluum plllum pl pllluum pl plum plum pllluum plluum plluum

growth begins. If the land is deficient in lime or chalk some should be
plllum plllum. Pl plm plum pl pllllluum pl plum pl pllum plum pluuum pl

given to each tree.
pllum pl plum plum.




W. C. (in Watson): "Superphosphate of lime, 5 lbs., sulphate of potash,
P. P. (pl Plluum): "Plluuuuuuuuuum pl plum, p plm., pluuuuum pl plluum,

2 lbs., sulphate of magnesia, ½ lb., chloride of soda, ½ lb. Apply
p plm., pllluuum pl plllluum, p pl., pluuuuum pl plum, p pl. Pllum

during mild weather in February at the rate of 4 ozs. to the square yard
plllum plum pllluum pl Plluuuum pl plm plum pl p plm. pl plm plluum plum

of border, or the full quantity 8 lbs. to each rod of orchard ground."
pl plllum, pl plm plum plllluum p plm. pl plum plm pl pllllum plllum."




Gather fruit dry before it is quite ripe. Cherries are usually sent to
Pluuum pllum plm pluuum pl pl pllum plum. Pllluuum plm pllllum plum pl

market in baskets which contain 24 lbs. nett; very choice fruit in 12
plluum pl pluuuum pllum pllluum pl plm. plum; plum plluum pllum pl pl

lb. baskets.
pl. pluuuum.




The word cherry comes from the old English cheri, chiri, and that
Plm plum plluum pluum plum plm plm Plluuum pluum, pluum, plm plum

probably from the French cerise, that from the Latin cerasus, and that
plluuuum plum plm Plllum pluuum, plum plum plm Pllum pllllum, plm plum

from the Greek (κερασός) kerasos. "Cheri or chiri was a corruption of
plum plm Pluum (plluuum) pluuuum. "Pllum pl pluum plm p pllluuuuum pl

cheris or chiris, the final _s_ being mistaken for the plural
plllum pl plluum, plm pluum plm pluum pluuuuum plm plm plluum

inflection; the same mistake occurs in several other words, notably in
pllluuuuum; plm plum pllluum pluuum pl pllluum pllum pllum, pllllum pl

pea as shortened from pease, Latin pisum" (Skeat).
plm pl pluuuuuum plum pllum, Pluum pluum" (Pluum).




FOOTNOTE:
PLLLUUUM:




[12] Cradles in Kent are often made of chestnut wood split, and last as
[pl] Pllluum pl Plum plm pllum plum pl pllluuum plum pluum, plm plum pl

long as they are needed. For form see pears, p. 7.
plum pl plum plm plluum. Plm plum plm pllum, p. p.













THE MULBERRY
PLM PLLLLLUM







The mulberry is a very handsome tree well worthy of cultivation in a
Plm pluuuuum pl p plum plllllum plum plum plllum pl plllluuuuum pl p

large garden, if only it receives the care and culture which it
pllum plllum, pl plum pl plllluum plm plum plm plluuum pllum pl

deserves. Its proper name derived from the Latin through the Anglo-Saxon
pllluuum. Plm plluum plum plluuum plum plm Pluum pllluum plm Pllum-Pllum

is Murberry. Mulberry is certainly more euphonious. It is said to be a
pl Pllluuum. Plluuuum pl pllluuuum plum plluuuuuum. Pl pl plum pl pl p

native of Persia, but it has been known in this country for three
plluum pl Plllum, plm pl plm plum pluum pl plum pluuuum plm pllum

centuries and a half at least. It is stated that there are trees still
pllllluum plm p plum pl pllum. Pl pl pluuum plum pluum plm pllum pluum

living among us several centuries old. The black mulberry is the one
plllum pluum pl pluuuum pluuuuuum plm. Plm pluum pllluuum pl plm plm

commonly grown in England; the white does better in a warmer clime, and
pluuuuum pluum pl Plluuum; plm pluum plum plllum pl p plluum pllum, plm

has been largely planted in France and other lands, where the leaves are
plm plum plluuum pllluum pl Pluuum plm pllum pllum, pluum plm plllum plm

required for silkworms. The white, however, can be grown in this
plluuuum plm pllluuuum. Plm pluum, pllllum, plm pl pluum pl plum

country. The mulberry will thrive in any good soil, but the ground
pluuuum. Plm pllluuum plum plllum pl plm plum plum, plm plm plllum

should not be very wet. It should be placed in a sheltered southern
pluuum plm pl plum plm. Pl plllum pl plllum pl p pllllluum plllluum

aspect, and is likely to do well in the south rather than the north of
pluuum, plm pl pluuum pl pl plum pl plm pluum plllum plum plm pllum pl

England. It is propagated by layers, cuttings and seeds. Trees with good
Pllluum. Pl pl plllluuuum pl plllum, pllluuum plm pllum. Pluum plum plum

straight stems should be had from the nurserymen, and a few shillings
plllluum pluum pluuum pl plm plum plm plluuuuuum, plm p plm pllllllum

spent in buying a straight, strong tree may save years. Plant in late
pllum pl plluum p plllluum, plllum plum plm plum pllum. Pllum pl plum

autumn without manure with the usual care (see planting pears); the
plllum pluuuum plllum plum plm pllum plum (plm pllluuum pllum); plm

roots should not be exposed to frost or cold winds. Brick and
pllum plluum plm pl pluuuum pl pllum pl plum pluum. Pluum plm

lime-rubbish below in a heavy wet soil should be given. In a lighter
plum-pllluum pllum pl p pllum plm plum plluum pl pluum. Pl p pllllum

soil put decayed manure round the tree after planting. In spring fork
plum plm plluuum plllum pluum plm plum pllum plllluum. Pl plluum plum

the soil up lightly, as trees thrive better when the soil is stirred. If
plm plum pl plluuum, pl pluum pluuum pluuum plum plm plum pl pluuuum. Pl

you plant early in November under favourable circumstances leave four
plm pluum pluum pl Pllluuum pluum pllllluuum pllllllllluum pllum plum

branches only, and cut these hard back to an outer eye. If you plant
pllluuum plum, plm plm pllum plum plum pl pl pluum plm. Pl plm pllum

late, don't prune until the following winter. The first branches if cut
plum, plm'p pllum pllum plm plluuuuum plluum. Plm pllum pluuuuum pl plm

back to three or four inches will probably throw out strong shoots. In
plum pl pluum pl plum plllum plum plluuuum pllum plm plluum plllum. Pl

August choose four of the best placed and strongest of these, cutting
Pluuum pluuum plum pl plm plum plluum plm pllllllum pl pllum, plluuum

out the rest that those left may grow and the wood be ripened. The tree
plm plm plum plum pllum plum plm plum plm plm plum pl plluuum. Plm plum

bears on short-jointed young wood, and on spurs, not on gross shoots.
pluum pl pluum-pllllum pluum plum, plm pl pluum, plm pl pluum plluum.

Keep the tree open, especially the middle, removing weak, watery spray,
Plum plm plum plum, plllllluum plm plluum, plllllum plum, plluum pluum,

and train the shoots upwards. It will be a pleasure to go under the tree
plm pllum plm plllum pllluum. Pl plum pl p pluuuuum pl pl pllum plm plum

in time and enjoy its shade. The sun and air must have free access if
pl plum plm pluum plm pllum. Plm plm plm plm plum plum plum pluuum pl

the fruit is to ripen. Sometimes the berries fall prematurely. Drought
plm pluum pl pl pluum. Plllluuum plm pllluum plum pluuuuuuuum. Pllluum

or want of food may be the cause. Liquid manure in summer as the fruit
pl plum pl plum plm pl plm pluum. Pluuum plluum pl plllum pl plm pllum

comes on, and the artificial manures recommended for all fruit trees
pluum pl, plm plm pllllluuum plluuum pllluuuuuum plm plm pllum pllum

(see pears) will be helpful. In the winter-pruning, cut out all cross
(plm pluum) plum pl pluuuum. Pl plm pluuum-pluuuum, plm plm plm pluum

boughs, beginning from below, so as not to tear the bark. Check only
plllum, plllluuum plum pllum, pl pl plm pl plum plm plum. Pluum plum

branches that are rampant and running away from others. Keep the tree as
plllluum plum plm pllllum plm plluuum plum plum pluuum. Plum plm plum pl

uniformly round as you can. When the tree has (in four or five years)
pllluuuum pllum pl plm plm. Plum plm plum plm (pl plum pl plum pluum)

gained size and fruits well, grass may be grown around the tree, but it
pluuum plum plm plluum plum, pllum plm pl pllum pluuum plm plum, plm pl

should be kept closely mown, especially when the fruit is ripening. All
pluuum pl plum pllllum plum, plllluuuum plum plm pluum pl pllluuum. Plm

coarse grasses should be spudded out. If the fruit were thinned and the
plluum pluuuum plluum pl pllllum plm. Pl plm pluum plum pluuuum plm plm

tree well fed, no doubt the berries would be finer. In any case feed
plum plum plm, pl pluum plm pllluum pluum pl pllum. Pl plm plum plum

well in July. The fruit is not very marketable, as it does not travel
plum pl Plum. Plm pllum pl plm plum plllluuuum, pl pl plum plm plluum

well, nor last long. But in cider counties it is sometimes mixed with
plum, plm plum plum. Plm pl pllum pluuuuum pl pl pllllllum pllum plum

apples, to make mulberry cider. The trees bear forcing in pots, and give
plllum, pl plum plllluum pluum. Plm pllum plum pllluum pl plum, plm plum

good fruit in July. They will bear a high temperature. The fruit mixed
plum pllum pl Plum. Plum plum plum p plum plllllluuum. Plm pllum pllum

with apples in a tart or pudding is described as "delicious." If it is
plum plllum pl p plum pl pllluum pl pllluuuum pl "plluuuuum." Pl pl pl

gathered perfectly dry, it can be used to make a jelly in a similar
plllluum pllllllum plm, pl plm pl plum pl plum p pllum pl p pllluum

manner to red currant jelly, and used for light puddings, etc. Mulberry
plllum pl plm plluuum pllum, plm plum plm pllum plluuuum, plm. Pllluuum

syrup is said to be good for sore throat; mulberry water to be
pllum pl plum pl pl plum plm plum pluuum; plluuuum pllum pl pl

refreshing as a drink in cases of fever, mulberry vinegar to be
plllllllum pl p pllum pl pllum pl pllum, pluuuuum pluuuum pl pl

efficacious for medicinal purposes just as raspberry vinegar, which it
pllllluuuum plm plllluuum pllluuum plum pl pllllluum pllllum, pllum pl

somewhat resembles. "Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery" explains these
pluuuuum plllluuum. "Pllllum'p Pllllluuum pl Pluuuum" plllluum pllum

details, and also how to make mulberry preserve.
pllluum, plm plum plm pl plum plllllum pllluuum.













APPENDIX
PLLUUUUM







THE PROPAGATION OF THE PEAR
PLM PLLLLLLLUUM PL PLM PLUM




It is not proposed to enter into elaborate details with reference to the
Pl pl plm plluuuum pl pluum plum plluuuuum pllllum plum pluuuuuum pl plm

propagation of the pear, for the general cultivator is far more
pllluuuuuum pl plm plum, plm plm plluuum pllluuuuum pl plm plum

concerned with and interested in its successful treatment when
pllllluum plum plm pllllluuum pl plm plllllllum pllllllum plum

established than before, for he can now obtain prepared trees so readily
pllllllluum plum plllum, plm pl plm plm pluuum plluuuum pluum pl plluuum

and cheaply from nurserymen, who propagate them by the thousand, that it
plm pllluum plum plllllllum, plm pllluuuum plum pl plm plluuuum, plum pl

is not at all worth his while to attempt their propagation himself.
pl plm pl plm pluum plm pllum pl pllllum pluum plllluuuuum pluuuum.




Pear trees are propagated either by budding or grafting. The first
Plum pllum plm pluuuuuuum pluuum pl plluuum pl pllluuum. Plm pllum

mentioned process is performed during July and August, and grafting is
pluuuuuum pluuuum pl plluuuuum plllum Plum plm Plllum, plm plllluum pl

done in the month of March.
plum pl plm pluum pl Pluum.




Budding consists in removing a bud from one tree and inserting it under
Pllluum plllluum pl pluuuuum p plm plum plm plum plm pllluuuum pl pllum

the bark of the stock or branch of another tree. This work is done in
plm plum pl plm pluum pl pluuum pl pluuuum plum. Plum plum pl plum pl

the months of July and August, because the bark is during that time more
plm pluuum pl Plum plm Pluuum, pllluum plm plum pl plllum plum plum plum

easily raised, and a union more easily effected between the cambium (an
plllum pluuum, plm p pluum plum pluuum plluuuum pllluum plm pllllum (pl

inner growing layer) of both bud and stock. The buds inserted are taken
pllum pluuuum pllum) pl plum plm plm pllum. Plm plum plllllum plm pluum

from the current year's shoots, choosing shoots that are firm and
plum plm pluuuum plum'p plluum, plllllum pluuum plum plm plum plm

short-jointed. After having removed a shoot, say nine or ten inches
pllum-pluuuum. Pluum plluum pluuuum p pllum, plm plum pl plm plluum

long, and cut the leaves to half their lengths, next proceed to cut out
plum, plm plm plm pluuum pl plum pluum pllluum, plum pllllum pl plm plm

a bud. This is done by inserting a knife below the bud at a distance of
p plm. Plum pl plum pl pluuuuuum p pluum pllum plm plm pl p pllluuum pl

about half an inch, and then drawing it upwards behind the bud, emerging
pluum plum pl plum, plm plum pllluum pl pluuuum pluuum plm plm, plllllum

again about half an inch above the bud. The cut must, of course, turn
pllum pluum plum pl plum pllum plm plm. Plm plm plum, pl plllum, plum

inwards--that is to say, towards the centre of the shoot. When removed,
pluuuum--plum pl pl plm, pllluum plm plluum pl plm pllum. Plum pluuuum,

the bud therefore will be about an inch long, with the "eye" in the
plm plm pllluuuum plum pl pllum pl plum plum, plum plm "plm" pl plm

centre, and with a certain amount of wood attached to it behind. This
plllum, plm plum p plluuum plllum pl plum plluuuum pl pl pluuum. Plum

should be removed, and the best way to do it is to insert the point of
pluuum pl pllllum, plm plm plum plm pl pl pl pl pl plllum plm pllum pl

one's knife just underneath, so as slightly to raise the wood. Then,
plm'p pluum plum plluuuuuum, pl pl pllluuum pl pluum plm plum. Plum,

with the blade of the knife and one's thumb above, it can easily be
plum plm pllum pl plm pluum plm plm'p pllum pluum, pl plm plllum pl

removed with a slight jerk. Take great care that the root of the bud is
pluuuum plum p pluuum plum. Plum pllum plum plum plm plum pl plm plm pl

not removed also. The stock to be budded should have a T-shaped incision
plm plluuum plum. Plm pluum pl pl plluum plllum plum p P-pluuum plllllum

made in the bark. With the ivory handle, which a proper budding knife
plum pl plm plum. Plum plm pllum plllum, pluum p plllum plluuum pluum

will have, raise the bark on either side of the longitudinal slit,
plum plum, pluum plm plum pl plluum plum pl plm plllllllluum plum,

commencing at the corners just below where it joins the transverse
plluuuuuum pl plm plluuum plum pluum pllum pl pllum plm plluuuuuum

incision. Take great care that the knife handle does not penetrate
plllllum. Plum pluum plum plum plm pllum pluuum plum plm pllllllum

beneath the inner bark, but press it against the latter, slipping it
pllluum plm pluum plum, plm pluum pl pllluum plm plllum, pluuuuum pl

along. When the bark is sufficiently raised, carefully insert the bud
pluum. Plum plm plum pl pluuuuuuuuum pluuum, plluuuuum plluum plm plm

beneath, taking hold of it by the remaining portion of the leaf stalk.
pluuuum, plllum plum pl pl pl plm pllllllum pllllum pl plm plum pllum.

It must not be forced down, but introduced as gently as can be,
Pl plum plm pl plluum plum, plm plllllllum pl plllum pl plm pl,

otherwise there will be danger of injuring the vital cambium layer,
pllllllum pluum plum pl plluum pl plllluum plm pllum pllllum pllum,

where the union is effected. Afterwards tie the bud around with matting,
pluum plm pllum pl plllllum. Plllllllum plm plm plm plllum plum pluuuum,

to keep it in position and to prevent the entrance of air. Tie both
pl plum pl pl pllluuum plm pl plluuum plm plllluum pl plm. Plm plum

above and below the "eye," leaving this of course free. An excellent
pllum plm pllum plm "plm," pllllum plum pl pluuum plum. Pl plllluuum

indication as to whether or not the bud has taken is afforded by the
pllluuuuum pl pl pllluum pl plm plm plm plm pllum pl pllluuum pl plm

petiole (leaf stalk). If this, a few weeks afterwards, falls completely
pllllum (plum pllum). Pl plum, p plm pluum pllllluuum, pllum plluuuuuum

away, one may be fairly certain that the bud has taken; if, on the other
plum, plm plm pl plllum pllllum plum plm plm plm pluum; pl, pl plm pluum

hand, it withers away, one may be almost equally sure that the operation
plum, pl pllluum plum, plm plm pl plluum pllllum plum plum plm pllllluum

has not been successful. The buds that have taken will commence to grow
plm plm plum pluuuuuuum. Plm plum plum plum pllum plum plluuuum pl plum

in the following spring, and then the stocks must be cut back to within
pl plm pllluuuum plllum, plm plum plm pluuum plum pl plm plum pl plllum

a few inches of where the buds are inserted. Many nurserymen, if they
p plm plllum pl pllum plm plum plm plllluum. Plum pluuuuuuum, pl plum

find that the bud has not taken, graft the same stock in the following
plum plum plm plm plm plm pluum, pluum plm plum pllum pl plm plluuuuum

spring, instead of waiting to bud again in summer.
plluum, pllluum pl pluuuum pl plm pllum pl plluum.




_Grafting_ consists in so attaching one shoot to another that they unite
pLllllllum pllluuum pl pl plluuuuum plm pllum pl pluuuum plum plum pllum

and grow together. There are many different methods of grafting, but
plm plum plllllum. Pluum plm plum pllllluum plluuum pl pluuuuum, plm

that most usually employed in the grafting of pear trees is tongue or
plum plum pluuuum pluuuuum pl plm pluuuuum pl plum pllum pl plllum pl

splice grafting. This is done in the month of March, with firm growth of
plluum plllllum. Plum pl plum pl plm pluum pl Pluum, plum plum plllum pl

the preceding year. First cut the stock in a sloping direction, and so
plm pllluuuum plum. Pluum plm plm pluum pl p plluuum plllluuum, plm pl

that the cut may terminate just above a bud if possible. "Great care
plum plm plm plm pllllluum plum pluum p plm pl pluuuuum. "Pllum plum

must be taken that the scions fit the stocks," is the recommendation of
plum pl pllum plum plm plluum plm plm plllum," pl plm pllllllllluuum pl

one of our large nursery growers of pear trees, and one that should be
plm pl plm pluum pllluum plluuum pl plum pllum, plm plm plum pluuum pl

closely followed. Therefore choose a graft as nearly as possible of the
plluuum pllluuum. Plllluuum plluum p pluum pl plllum pl plllluum pl plm

same size as the stock. Having cut the graft to a suitable length, say
plum plum pl plm pluum. Plllum plm plm pllum pl p plllllum plllum, plm

nine or ten inches, cut the lower end (that is, the thicker one) exactly
plum pl plm plluum, plm plm pluum plm (plum pl, plm pllllum plm) pluuuum

as the top of the stock was cut, so that when placed together they will
pl plm plm pl plm pllum plm plm, pl plum plum pluuum plluuuum plum plum

properly fit upon each other. The essential point is, of course, to make
plllluum plm plum plum pluum. Plm pllllllum pluum pl, pl plllum, pl plum

sure that the inner bark of the one coincides with the inner bark of the
plum plum plm pllum plum pl plm plm plllluuum plum plm pllum plum pl plm

other, as then the cambium layers will also coincide. The graft should
pllum, pl plum plm pluuuum pluuum plum plum pllluuum. Plm pluum pluuum

be carefully and securely tied on to the stock with raffia, and then
pl pllllluum plm pllluuum plum pl pl plm pllum plum plllum, plm plum

covered over with either clay or grafting wax, so as effectually to
pluuuum plum plum plluum plum pl pllluuum plm, pl pl pllllluuuum pl

prevent the entrance of air. It is advisable to place moss over the
pllllum plm pllluuum pl plm. Pl pl plluuuuum pl pllum plum plum plm

clay, so that in dry weather this can be watered to prevent the clay
plum, pl plum pl plm pllluum plum plm pl pllluum pl pllllum plm plum

from becoming dry. Unless there were a covering of some material capable
plum pluuuuum plm. Pluuum pluum plum p pllluuum pl plum plluuuum pluuuum

of holding moisture, it would be impossible to keep the clay in anything
pl plluuum plllluum, pl pluum pl pluuuuuuum pl plum plm plum pl plllllum

like a moist condition. When it is seen that the graft commences to grow
plum p pllum pllllluum. Plum pl pl plum plum plm pluum plluuuuum pl plum

freely, the clay may be partly removed so as to allow of the ligatures
pluuum, plm plum plm pl plluum plluuum pl pl pl pllum pl plm pllllluum

being loosened. It is wise to tie the graft to a stake attached to the
pluum plllllum. Pl pl plum pl plm plm pllum pl p pllum plluuuum pl plm

stock when the clay is finally removed, as in rough weather it might
pluum plum plm plum pl pllluum plluuum, pl pl pllum pluuuum pl pllum

possibly be broken off.
plluuuum pl pluuum plm.




_The above is reprinted from "The Book of the Apple" in the present
pLum pluum pl pllluuuum plum "Plm Plum pl plm Pluum" pl plm pllllum

series of handbooks._
plluum pl plllluuum.p













Handbooks of Practical Gardening
Plllluuum pl Pllllluum Plluuuuum




Under the General Editorship of
Pluum plm Pluuuum Plluuuuuum pl




HARRY ROBERTS
PLLUM PLLLLUM




Crown 8vo. Illustrated. Cloth.
Pllum plm. Plllllluuum. Pllum.




Price 2s. 6d. net per volume. Price $1.00 net.
Pllum pl. pl. plm plm plluum. Pluum $p.pl plm.




_SOME OPINIONS OF THE PRESS._
PLLUM PLLLLLUM PL PLM PLLUM.p




      _Scotsman_--"A series which has already elicited warm
      pLllllllum--"P plllum pllum plm pluuuum plllluum plum

      recognition."
      pllllluuuum."




      _Western Daily Mercury_--"The invaluable series."
      pLllluum Pllum Plllluum--"Plm pllluuuuum plllum."




      _Literary World_--"In every respect these Handbooks will
      pLluuuuum Pluuum--"Pl pluum plluuum pllum Plluuuuum plum

      delight the heart of the gardener. They are written by men
      plluuum plm pllum pl plm pllluuum. Plum plm plluuum pl plm

      of wide experience, and are well got up and well
      pl plum plluuuuuum, plm plm plum plm pl plm plum

      illustrated."
      pllluuuuuum."




      _Churchwoman_--"Delightfully got up, well and freely
      pLllllllluuum--"Pllluuuuuuum plm pl, plum plm pluuum

      illustrated, and full of useful and practical information
      plluuuuuuum, plm plum pl plllum plm pllllllum pllllllllum

      simply expressed."
      plluum pluuuuuum."




      _Bradford Observer_--"An elegant and compendious series, the
      pLlllluum Pluuuuuum--"Pl pluuuum plm pllllluuuum plllum, plm

      great excellence of which is that they are written by men
      pluum plluuuuuum pl pluum pl plum plum plm plluuum pl plm

      having special authority, and that they convey in succinct
      pluuum pllllum pllluuuum, plm plum plum plluum pl plluuuum

      and practical form what the cultivator wants to know."
      plm plllluuum plum plum plm plllllluum pluum pl plum."




      _Pilot_--"The series is remarkable for the amount of
      pLluuum--"Plm pluuum pl plllluuuum plm plm pluuum pl

      practical information and advice compressed within each
      plllluuum plluuuuuuum plm plluum pllllluuum plllum plum

      volume."
      plluum."




      _World_--"This very useful series should by no means be
      pLuuuum--"Plum plum pluuum plluum plllum pl pl pllum pl

      missed from the library of the sincere gardener."
      pluuum plum plm pllllum pl plm plluuum plluuuum."




      _Liverpool Courier_--"A useful and attractive series."
      pLllllluum Pllluuum--"P plllum plm plllllllum plluum."







      Vol. I.--THE BOOK OF ASPARAGUS. With sections also on
      Plm. P.--PLM PLUM PL PLLUUUUUM. Plum pluuuuum plum pl

      Celery, Salsify, Scorzonera, and Seakale; together with a
      Pluuum, Pluuuum, Pllllluuum, plm Plluuum; plluuuum plum p

      chapter on their cooking and preparation for the table. By
      pllluum pl pluum plluuum plm plllluuuuum plm plm pluum. Pl

      CHARLES ILOTT, F.R.H.S., Lecturer on Horticulture to the
      PLLLLUM PLLUM, P.P.P.P., Plluuuum pl Plllllllluum pl plm

      Cornwall County Council.
      Pllluuum Pluuum Plluuum.




      Vol. II.--THE BOOK OF THE GREENHOUSE. By J. C. TALLACK,
      Plm. PL.--PLM PLUM PL PLM PLLLLLLUUM. Pl P. P. PLLLUUM,

      F.R.H.S., Head Gardener at Shipley Hall.
      P.P.P.P., Plum Plluuuum pl Pluuuum Plum.




      Vol. III.--THE BOOK OF THE GRAPE. Together with a chapter on
      Plm. PLM.--PLM PLUM PL PLM PLLUM. Plllluum plum p pllllum pl

      the History and Decorative Value of the Vines. By H. W.
      plm Pllllum plm Plluuuuuum Pllum pl plm Pllum. Pl P. P.

      WARD, F.R.H.S., for twenty-five years Head Gardener at
      PLUM, P.P.P.P., plm plllum-plum pllum Plum Plllllum pl

      Longford Castle.
      Pluuuuum Pluuum.




      Vol. IV.--THE BOOK OF OLD-FASHIONED FLOWERS. By HARRY
      Plm. PL.--PLM PLUM PL PLM-PLUUUUUUM PLLUUUM. Pl PLLUM

      ROBERTS, author of "The Chronicle of a Cornish Garden."
      PLLLUUM, pluuum pl "Plm Pllllluum pl p Pllluum Plllum."




      Vol. V.--THE BOOK OF BULBS. By S. ARNOTT, of Carsethorne,
      Plm. P.--PLM PLUM PL PLUUM. Pl P. PLLUUM, pl Pllllluuuum,

      near Dumfries.
      plum Plluuuum.




      Vol. VI.--THE BOOK OF THE APPLE. By H. H. THOMAS, Assistant
      Plm. PL.--PLM PLUM PL PLM PLUUM. Pl P. P. PLLLUM, Pluuuuuum

      Editor of "The Garden," late of the Royal Gardens, Windsor.
      Plluum pl "Plm Plllum," plum pl plm Pluum Pllllum, Plluuum.

      Together with chapters by the Editor on the History and
      Pluuuuum plum plluuuum pl plm Plluum pl plm Plluuum plm

      Cooking of the Apple and the Preparation of Cider.
      Pluuuum pl plm Pluum plm plm Pllluuuuuum pl Pluum.




      Vol. VII.--THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES. By GEORGE WYTHES, V.M.H.,
      Plm. PLM.--PLM PLUM PL PLLLLLLLUM. Pl PLLUUM PLLLUM, P.P.P.,

      Head Gardener at Syon House. Together with chapters on
      Plum Plllllum pl Plum Pllum. Pluuuuum plum plllllum pl

      History and Cookery, by the Editor.
      Pllluum plm Pllluum, pl plm Plllum.




      VOL. VIII.--THE BOOK OF ORCHIDS. By W. H. WHITE,
      PLM. PLUM.--PLM PLUM PL PLLLLUM. Pl P. P. PLUUM,

      F.R.H.S., Orchid Grower to Sir Trevor Lawrence, President of
      P.P.P.P., Pluuum Plllum pl Plm Pluuum Pluuuuum, Pllllllum pl

      the Royal Horticultural Society.
      plm Pluum Pllluuuuuuuum Pllllum.




      VOL. IX.--THE BOOK OF THE STRAWBERRY. With chapters
      PLM. PL.--PLM PLUM PL PLM PLLLUUUUUM. Plum plllluum

      on the Raspberry, Blackberry, Loganberry, Japanese Wineberry
      pl plm Pllluuuum, Pluuuuuuum, Pluuuuuuum, Plluuuum Plllluuum

      and allied fruits. By EDWIN BECKETT, F.R.H.S., Head Gardener
      plm pluuum plluum. Pl PLUUM PLLLUUM, P.P.P.P., Plum Plllllum

      at Aldenham Park.
      pl Plllllum Plum.




      VOL. X.--THE BOOK OF CLIMBING PLANTS. By S. ARNOTT,
      PLM. P.--PLM PLUM PL PLLLLLUM PLLLUM. Pl P. PLLUUM,

      F.R.H.S., author of "The Book of Bulbs."
      P.P.P.P., pluuum pl "Plm Plum pl Pluum."




      VOL. XI.--THE BOOK OF PEARS AND PLUMS. By the Rev.
      PLM. PL.--PLM PLUM PL PLUUM PLM PLLUM. Pl plm Plm.

      E. BARTRUM, D.D.
      P. PLLLLUM, P.P.




      VOL. XII.--THE BOOK OF HERBS. By LADY ROSALIND
      PLM. PLM.--PLM PLUM PL PLUUM. Pl PLUM PLLLLLUM

      NORTHCOTE.
      PLLLUUUUM.




      VOL. XIII.--THE BOOK OF THE WILD GARDEN. By S. W.
      PLM. PLUM.--PLM PLUM PL PLM PLUM PLUUUM. Pl P. P.

      FITZHERBERT.
      PLLLLLLLUUM.




      VOL. XIV.--THE BOOK OF BEES. By CHARLES HARRISON.
      PLM. PLM.--PLM PLUM PL PLUM. Pl PLLUUUM PLLLLUUM.













BOOKS FOR COUNTRY HOUSES
PLLUM PLM PLUUUUM PLLLUM







BY "E. V. B."
PL "P. P. P."




Author of "Days and Hours in a Garden."
Pluuum pl "Plum plm Pluum pl p Plluum."




Seven Gardens and a Palace. Illustrated by
Pluum Pllluum plm p Plllum. Pluuuuuuuum pl

F. L. B. GRIGGS and ARTHUR GORDON. _Third Edition._
P. P. P. PLLUUM plm PLUUUM PLLUUM. pLluum Pllluum.p




Price 5s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.50.
Pluum pl. plm.  Pluum plm.  Pllum $p.pl.







BY HARRY ROBERTS
PL PLLUM PLLLUUM




The Chronicle of a Cornish Garden.
Plm Plllluuum pl p Pluuuum Plluum.




With Seven ideal Illustrations by F. L. B. GRIGGS.
Plum Pluum pluum Pllllllluuuum pl P. P. P. PLLLUM.

Price 5s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.50 net.
Pluum pl. plm.  Pluum plm.  Pluum $p.pl plm.







BY FRANCIS BACON
PL PLUUUUM PLLUM




Of Gardens: An Essay. With an Introduction
Pl Pluuuum: Pl Pllum. Plum pl Pluuuuuuuuum

by HELEN MILMAN and a Cover Design and Frontispiece
pl PLLUM PLLLUM plm p Pllum Pluuum plm Plllllllllum

by EDMUND H. NEW.
pl PLLLUM P. PLM.




Price 2s. 6d. net.  Demy 16mo.  Price 50 cents net.
Pllum pl. pl. plm.  Plum plum.  Pluum pl pllum plm.







BY MRS LESLIE WILLIAMS
PL PLM PLUUUM PLLUUUUM




A Garden in the Suburbs. With Eight
P Plluum pl plm Pllllum. Plum Pluum

Illustrations.
Pllllllllllum.




Price 5s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.25 net.
Pluum pl. plm.  Pluum plm.  Pluum $p.pl plm.







BY MARY P. MILNE-HOME
PL PLUM P. PLUUM-PLUM




Stray Leaves from a Border Garden.
Pluum Pluuum plum p Plluum Plluum.




With Eight Illustrations by F. L. B. GRIGGS.
Plum Pluum Plllllllluuum pl P. P. P. PLUUUM.




Price 6s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.50 net.
Pluum pl. plm.  Pluum plm.  Pluum $p.pl plm.







BY HELEN MILMAN
PL PLUUM PLLUUM




In the Garden of Peace. With 24 Illustrations
Pl plm Plllum pl Pluum. Plum pl Plllllllluuum

and Cover designed by EDMUND H. NEW.  _Third Edition._
plm Pllum plllllum pl PLLLUM P. PLM.  pLllum Plluuum.p

Price 5s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.50.
Pllum pl. plm.  Pluum plm.  Pluum $p.pl.




Outside the Garden. With 24 Illustrations and
Pllluum plm Plluum. Plum pl Plllllllluuum plm

Cover by EDMUND H. NEW.
Pluum pl PLLUUM P. PLM.

Price 5s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.50.
Pluum pl. plm.  Pllum plm.  Pllum $p.pl.




My Roses and How I Grew Them.
Pl Pluum plm Plm P Plum Plum.

With a Cover designed by EDMUND H. NEW. _Third
Plum p Pllum plllluum pl PLLUUM P. PLM. pLuuum

  Edition._
  Pluuuum.p

Price 1s. 6d. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price 75 cents.
Pllum pl. pl. plm.  Pllum plm.  Pllum pl pllum.




From the Heart of the Rose. With a
Plum plm Pllum pl plm Plum. Plum p

  Frontispiece in Photogravure.
  Pllluuuuuuum pl Pluuuuuuuuum.

Price 5s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.50 net.
Pllum pl. plm.  Pllum plm.  Pllum $p.pl plm.




In a Tuscan Garden. With numerous Illustrations,
Pl p Pluuum Plllum. Plum plllluum Pllllluuuuuum,

  and a Cover Design.
  plm p Pluum Pluuum.

Price 5s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.50 net.
Pluum pl. plm.  Pluum plm.  Pllum $p.pl plm.







BY CANON ELLACOMBE
PL PLLUM PLUUUUUUM




Author of "In a Gloucestershire Garden," &c.
Plllum pl "Pl p Plluuuuuuuuuuum Plllum," &p.




In My Vicarage Garden. With illustrations
Pl Pl Pllluuum Pluuum. Plum plllllllluuum

by F. L. B. GRIGGS.
pl P. P. P. PLLLUM.




Price 5s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.50 net.
Pllum pl. plm.  Pluum plm.  Pluum $p.pl plm.







BY FORBES WATSON
PL PLLUUM PLUUUM




Flowers and Gardens. With Photogravure
Pllluum plm Pllllum. Plum Pllllluuuuum

Portrait of the Author. Edited, with a Biographical Note,
Pllluuum pl plm Pluuum. Plllum, plum p Pllllluuuuum Plum,

by Canon ELLACOMBE.
pl Pluum PLLLLUUUM.




Price 5s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.50 net.
Pllum pl. plm.  Pllum plm.  Pluum $p.pl plm.







BY JOHN D. SEDDING
PL PLUM P. PLLLLUM




Garden-Craft Old and New. With a
Plllum-Pluum Plm plm Plm. Plum p

Memorial Notice by the Rev. E. F. RUSSELL, and nine
Pllluuum Plluum pl plm Plm. P. P. PLLLUUM, plm plum

full-page Illustrations. New Edition.
plum-plum Pllllluuuuuum. Plm Plluuum.




Price 7s. 6d. net.  Demy 8vo.  Price $2.50 net.
Pllum pl. pl. plm.  Plum plm.  Pluum $p.pl plm.







BY E. H. POLLARD
PL P. P. PLUUUUM




The Natural History of Selborne. Edited,
Plm Pluuuum Pluuuum pl Pllluuum. Plllum,

with an Introduction, by GRANT ALLEN. With nearly
plum pl Pllllluuuuum, pl PLLUM PLUUM. Plum plllum

200 Illustrations by EDMUND H. NEW.
plm Pluuuuuuuuuum pl PLUUUM P. PLM.




Price 5s. net.  Crown 8vo.  Price $1.50 net.
Pllum pl. plm.  Pllum plm.  Pllum $p.pl plm.







BY IZAAK WALTON AND CHARLES COTTON
PL PLLUM PLUUUM PLM PLLLUUM PLLUUM




The Compleat Angler. Edited, with an Introduction,
Plm Pllluuum Plllum. Plluum, plum pl Plllllllluum,

by RICHARD LE GALLIENNE. With Photogravure
pl PLLUUUM PL PLLLLLLUM. Plum Plluuuuuuuum

Portraits of Walton and Cotton, and over 250 Illustrations
Pllluuuum pl Plllum plm Plluum, plm plum plm Pllllluuuuuum

and Cover designed by EDMUND H. NEW.
plm Pluum plllllum pl PLLLUM P. PLM.




Price 15s. net.  Fcap. 4to.  Price $6.00.
Pllum plm. plm.  Plum. plm.  Pllum $p.pl.







BY CHARLES HENRY LANE
PL PLLLLUM PLLUM PLUM




All About Dogs. A Book for Doggy People.
Plm Pllum Plum. P Plum plm Pluum Plllum.




With 85 Full-page Illustrations (including nearly 70
Plum pl Plum-plum Pllllllluuuum (plluuuuum plluum pl

champions) by R. H. MOORE. Gilt top.
pllllluum) pl P. P. PLLUM. Plum plm.




Price 7s. 6d. net.  Demy 8vo.  Price $2.50 net.
Pllum pl. pl. plm.  Plum plm.  Pluum $p.pl plm.







JOHN LANE: LONDON: VIGO STREET, W.
PLUM PLUM: PLLUUM: PLUM PLLLUM, P.

           NEW YORK: 67 FIFTH AVENUE.
           PLM PLUM: pl PLLUM PLLLUM.













    +------------------------------------------------+
    +------------------------------------------------+

    |             Transcriber's Note:                |
    |             Pllllllluum'p Plum:                |

    |                                                |
    |                                                |

    | Some inconsistent hyphenation and spelling in  |
    | Plum pllluuuuuuum plllluuuuum plm plllllum pl  |

    | the original document have been preserved.     |
    | plm plllllum plllllum plum plum pllluuuum.     |

    |                                                |
    |                                                |

    | Typographical errors corrected in the text:    |
    | Plllllluuuuum plllum plllluuum pl plm plum:    |

    |                                                |
    |                                                |

    | Page   22  Josephines changed to Josephine     |
    | Plum   pl  Plllllllum plluuum pl Pluuuuuum     |

    | Page   24  Cornice changed to Comice           |
    | Plum   pl  Pllllum plluuum pl Plllum           |

    | Page   28  it's changed to its                 |
    | Plum   pl  pl'p pluuuum pl plm                 |

    | Page   51  Josephines changed to Josephine     |
    | Plum   pl  Pllllluuum pluuuum pl Plllluuum     |

    | Page   54  Marrillat changed to Marillat       |
    | Plum   pl  Pllllllum pllluum pl Pluuuuum       |

    | Page   61  Engelbert changed to Englebert      |
    | Plum   pl  Plllluuum pllluum pl Plllluuum      |

    | Page   63  Denniston's changed to Dennistoun's |
    | Plum   pl  Pllluuuum'p pllllum pl Plluuuuuum'p |

    +------------------------------------------------+
    +------------------------------------------------+
















End of Project Gutenberg's The Book of Pears and Plums, by Edward Bartrum
Plm pl Pllluum Plluuuuum'p Plm Plum pl Pluum plm Pllum, pl Plluum Pllllum




*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOOK OF PEARS AND PLUMS ***
*** PLM PL PLUM PLLUUUM PLUUUUUUM PLUUM PLM PLUM PL PLLUM PLM PLLUM ***




***** This file should be named 31251-0.txt or 31251-0.zip *****
***** Plum plum plllum pl pllum pluum-p.plm pl pllum-p.plm *****

This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
Plum plm plm plllllllum pluum pl pllluum pllllum plum pl pllum pl:

        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/2/5/31251/
        plum://plm.pllllluum.plm/p/p/p/p/pluum/




Produced by Steven Giacomelli, Barbara Kosker and the
Pluuuuum pl Pluuum Plllllluum, Pllluum Plluum plm plm

Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
Plllum Pllluuuuuum Pluuuuuuuuum Plum pl plum://plm.plum.plm

(This file was produced from images produced by Core
(Plum plum plm plluuuum plum pluuum pluuuuum pl Plum

Historical Literature in Agriculture (CHLA), Cornell
Pllluuuuum Plllluuuum pl Pllllllllum (PLUM), Plluuum

University)
Pllllluuum)







Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
Plluuum plluuuum plum pllllum plm plluuuum plm--plm plm pluuuuum

will be renamed.
plum pl pllluum.




Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
Pllluuum plm pllum plum plluum pluuum pluum plluuuum pluum plum pl

one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
plm plum p Plluum Plllum pluuuuuum pl pluum pluum, pl plm Pluuuuuuum

(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
(plm plm!) plm plum plm plllllllum pl pl plm Pluuum Pluuum pluuuum

permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
pllllluuum plm pllllum pluuum plllluuum plluuuuum.  Pluuuum pluum,

set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
plm pluum pl plm Pllllum Pllum pl Plm plum pl plum pluuuum, pllum pl

copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
pllluum plm pllllllluuum Pllluum Pllluuuum-pl pllllluuum pluum pl

protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
pluuuum plm PLUUUUM PLLLLUUUM-pl pllllum plm pllllllum.  Pllluum

Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
Pllllluum pl p plllllluum pllluuuum, plm plm plm pl plum pl plm

charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
plllum plm plm pLllum, plllum plm pluuuum plllluum pllluuuuum.  Pl plm

do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
pl plm plllum pllluuum plm pluuum pl plum pLlum, pluuuuuum plum plm

rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
pllum pl plum plum.  Plm plm plm plum pLlum plm pluuum plm plluuum

such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
plum pl plluuuum pl plllllllum pllum, pllllum, plllllllllum plm

research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
plllluum.  Plum plm pl plllluum plm pllluum plm pllum plum--plm plm pl

practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
plluuuuuuum PLUUUUUM plum plllum plluum pLuuum.  Pllluuuuuuuuum pl

subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
pllluum pl plm pluuuuuum pluuuum, pllluuuuum plllllluum

redistribution.
plllllluuuuuum.










*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
*** PLUUM: PLUM PLLUUUM ***




THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLM PLUM PLLUUUM PLLLLUUUM PLLLLUM

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
PLLUUM PLUM PLUM PLUUUM PLM PLUUUUUUUM PL PLM PLUM PLUM




To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
Pl pllluum plm Pluuuum Plllluuum-pl pluuuum pl pluuuuuum plm plum

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
pllluuuuuuum pl pllluuuuum pluum, pl pluum pl plllllluuuum plum plum

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
(pl plm pllum plum plllllluum pl plm plm plum plm plluum "Pllluum

Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Plllluuum"), plm pllum pl plluum plum plm plm pllum pl plm Plum Pluuuum

Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
Plllluuum-pl Pllllum (plluuuuum plum plum plum pl plllum pl

http://gutenberg.org/license).
plum://pllluuuum.plm/plluuum).







Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
Pllluum p.  Pllllum Pllum pl Plm plm Plllllllluuuum Pllllum Pllluuuum-pl

electronic works
pllluuuuum pluum




1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
p.P.  Pl pluuuum pl pluum plm plum pl plum Pllluum Pllllllum-pl

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
pllllluuum plum, plm pluuuuum plum plm plum plum, plluuuuuum, pluum pl

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
plm pluuum plm plm pluum pl plum pluuuum plm plllllllluum plllllum

(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
(pllluuuum/plluuuuum) pllluuuum.  Pl plm pl plm pllum pl pluum pl plm

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
plm pllum pl plum pluuuuuum, plm plum pllum pllum plm pluuum pl plluuum

all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
plm plluum pl Pllluum Pllluuuum-pl plluuuuuum pluum pl plum pllluuuuum.

If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Pl plm plum p plm plm pluuuuuum p plum pl pl pluuum pl p Pllllum

Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Plluuuuum-pl pluuuuuuum plum plm plm pl plm pllum pl pl pllum pl plm

terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
pllum pl plum plluuuuum, plm plm plllum p pluuum plum plm pluuum pl

entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
plllum pl plum plm plum plm plm pl plm pllum pl pllllluum p.P.p.




1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
p.P.  "Pluuuum Pllllllum" pl p pllllluuum pluuuuuum.  Pl plm plum pl

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
plum pl pl pllllluuum pl plm plm plum pl plllllllum plum pl pluuum plm

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
pllum pl pl pluum pl plm pllum pl plum pllluuuum.  Pllum plm p plm

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
pluuum plum plm plm pl plum plum Plluuum Plluuuuum-pl plllllllum pllum

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
plum pluuuum pluuuuuum plum plm plum pluum pl plum plllluuum.  Plm

paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
plluuuuum p.P pluum.  Pllum plm p plm pl pluuum plm plm pl plum Pllllum

Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Pllluuuum-pl plluuuuuum pllum pl plm plluum plm pllum pl plum plllluuum

and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
plm plum plllllum plum plluum pluuum pl Pllllum Pllluuuum-pl plllllluum

works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
pllum.  Plm pllluuuum p.P pluum.




1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
p.P.  Plm Pllllum Pllllllum Plluuuum Plluuum Plllllllum ("plm Plllluuuum"

or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
pl PLLUM), plum p pllllllluum pllluuuum pl plm plllllllum pl Pllluum

Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Pllllllum-pl pluuuuuuum pluum.  Pluuum plm plm pluuuuuuum pluum pl plm

collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
pllluuuuum plm pl plm pluuum plluum pl plm Plllum Pluuum.  Pl pl

individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
pllluuuuum plum pl pl plm plllum plllum pl plm Pluuum Plllum plm plm plm

located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
pluuuum pl plm Plluum Plluum, pl pl plm pllum p pllum pl pluuuum plm plum

copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
pluuuum, pllluuuuuuum, pllllluuum, pllluuuuum pl plluuuum pllllluuum

works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
pluum pllum pl plm plum pl plum pl plm pllluuuuum pl Pllllum Pllluuuum

are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
plm pllllum.  Pl plluum, pl plum plum plm plum plluuum plm Pllluum

Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
Pllluuuum-pl plluuum pl pluuuuuum plum plluum pl pllluuuuum pluum pl

freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
plluum plluuum Pllllum Pllluuuum-pl pllum pl pllluuuuum plum plm pluum pl

this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
plum pllluuuum plm pllluum plm Pllluum Pluuuuuum-pl plum plllllluum plum

the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
plm plum.  Plm plm plluum plluum plum plm pluum pl plum pllluuuum pl

keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
plluuum plum plum pl plm plum pluuum plum plm pluuuuum plum Plluuum

Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
Pllllllum-pl Pluuuum plum plm pluum pl pluuuum pluuum plum pluuum.




1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
p.P.  Plm pllllllum plum pl plm pllum pllum plm plm pllluum plum plluum

what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
plum plm plm pl plum plum plum.  Pllllluum plum pl plum pluuuuuum plm pl

a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
p pluuuuum pllum pl pluuum.  Pl plm plm pllluum plm Pluuum Plllum, pllum

the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
plm plum pl plum pllluum pl pluuuuum pl plm pluum pl plum pllllluum

before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
plllum pllllllluum, pluuuum, plllllllum, pllluuuuum, plllllluuuum pl

creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
plllluum pllllluuum pluum pluum pl plum plum pl plm pllum Plluuum

Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
Pluuuuuum-pl plum.  Plm Plluuuuuum pllum pl pllllllllllllum plllllllum

the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
plm pllluuuum plluum pl plm plum pl plm pluuuum plluuum plm Pluuum

States.
Plllum.




1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
p.P.  Plllum plm plum pllllum plm plllluuuum pl Pllllum Plllluuum:




1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
p.P.p.  Plm pluuuuuum plllluum, plum pluuum pllum pl, pl pluum pllluuuum

access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
plllum pl, plm plum Pllllum Plllluuum-pl Plluuum plum plllum plluuuuuuum

whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
plluuuum plm plum pl p Pllllum Plllluuum-pl plum (plm plum pl pllum plm

phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
plllum "Plluuum Plluuuuum" pluuuum, pl plum pluum plm plllum "Pllluum

Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
Plllluuum" pl pluuuuuuum) pl pluuuuum, plllluuum, pllluuuum, plllum,

copied or distributed:
plluum pl pllllllluum:




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Plum pLlum pl plm plm plm pl plluum plllllum pl pl plum plm plum

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
plllum pl pluuuuuuuuum plllllluum.  Plm plm plum pl, plum pl plum pl

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
pl-plm pl pluum plm pluum pl plm Plluuum Pllllllum Pllluum pllluuum

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
plum plum pLlum pl pluuum pl plm.pluuuuuum.plm




1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
p.P.p.  Pl pl plllllluum Plluuum Plllluuum-pl plluuuuuum plum pl pllluum

from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
plum plm pluuum pluuum (plum plm pllluum p plluum plllllluum plum pl pl

posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
plllum plum pluuuuuuum pl plm plluuuuum plluum), plm plum plm pl plllum

and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
plm pllllllluum pl pluuum pl plm Plluum Plluum plluuum plllum plm plum

or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
pl pluuuum.  Pl plm plm pllluuuuuuuuum pl pluuuuuum pluuum pl p plum

with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
plum plm plluum "Pllluum Plllluuum" plllllluum plum pl plluuuuum pl plm

work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
plum, plm plum plluum plllum plum plm plluuuuuuuum pl plluuuuuum p.P.p

through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
pllllum p.P.p pl plluum plllllluum plm plm plm pl plm plum plm plm

Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
Pllllum Pllllllum-pl pllllllum pl plm pluum pl pllllluuum p.P.p pl

1.E.9.
p.P.p.




1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
p.P.p.  Pl pl pllluuuuum Pluuuum Pluuuuuum-pl pllluuuuum plum pl pluuum

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
plum plm pluuuuuuum pl plm pllluuuum plllum, plum plm plm pllluuuuuuum

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
plum pluuum plum plum pllllluuum p.P.p plluuum p.P.p plm plm plllllllum

terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
pluum pllllum pl plm pllllluum plluum.  Plllllllum pluum plum pl plluum

to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
pl plm Pluuuum Pllllluum-pl Pllluum plm plm pluum plluum plum plm

permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
plllllluum pl plm plluuuuum pluuum pluum pl plm pluuuuuum pl plum plum.




1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
p.P.p.  Pl plm pluuum pl pluuum pl plllum plm plum Pllllum Pllllluum-pl

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
Plluuum pluum plum plum plum, pl plm pluum plllllluum p plum pl plum

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
plum pl plm pllum plum plllluuuum plum Pluuuum Pllluuuum-pl.




1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
p.P.p.  Pl plm plum, pllllum, pllluum, plluuuuuum pl plllllllllum plum

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
plllllluum plum, pl plm plum pl plum plluuuuuum plum, pllllum

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
pllllluuuum pllllluuum plm plllluum plm pllum pl pllluuuum p.P.p plum

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
plluum pluum pl pluuuuuum pluuum pl plm plum pluum pl plm Pllluum

Gutenberg-tm License.
Pluuuuuum-pl Pllllum.




1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
p.P.p.  Plm plm pluuuum pl plm pllluuuuum plum plum pl plm plllum,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
plluuuuuum, plluum pl, pluuuuuuuuuuum pl plluuuuuuum plum, plluuuuum plm

word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
plum plllllllum pl pllluuuum plum.  Plluuum, pl plm pluuuum pluuum pl pl

distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
plllllluum pluuum pl p Pllluum Pluuuuuum-pl plum pl p pluuum pllum plum

"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
"Pllum Pllllum PLLUM" pl pllum pluuum plum pl plm pllluuum pluuuum

posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
pluuum pl plm pllluuum Pllluum Pluuuuuum-pl plm plum (plm.pllllluum.plm),

you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
plm plum, pl pl pluuuuuuum plum, plm pl pllluum pl plm plum, pllllum p

copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
plum, p pllum pl pllluuuum p plum, pl p pllum pl pllluuuum p plum plum

request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
pluuuum, pl plm plum pl plm plllluum "Pluum Pllluum PLUUM" pl pluum

form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
plum.  Plm pluuuuuum plluum plum plluuum plm plum Plluuum Plllluuum-pl

License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
Pluuuum pl pluuuuuum pl pllllluum p.P.p.




1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
p.P.p.  Pl plm plluum p plm plm plllum pl, pluuuum, pllluuuuum,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
pluuuuuuum, pllluum pl plllllllllum plm Plluuum Pluuuuuum-pl pllum

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
plluum plm pluuum plum pllllluum p.P.p pl p.P.p.




1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
p.P.p.  Plm plm pluuum p pllluuuuum plm plm plllum pl pl plluuuuum

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
pluuum pl pl plllllllllum Pllluum Pllluuuum-pl pllllluuum pllum pluuuuum

that
plum




- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
- Plm plm p plluuum plm pl pl% pl plm pluum plluuum plm plluum plum

     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     plm plm pl Pllllum Pllllluum-pl pllum plllluuuum pllum plm plluum

     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     plm pllluum plm pl plluuuuum plum plllluuuum pluum.  Plm plm pl

     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     plum pl plm pluum pl plm Pllllum Pllluuuum-pl plllluuum, plm pl

     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     plm plllum pl plluum plluuuuum pllum plum pluuuuuum pl plm

     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     Pluuuum Plluuuuum Plllluum Pllluum Plllllluum.  Pluuuum pllluuum

     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     plum pl plum pluuum pl plum pllllllum plum plum pl pllum plm

     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     pllluum (pl plm pllllum pllluuum pl pllluum) plum plluuuum plm

     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     pllllum.  Plluuum pluuuuum plluum pl pluuuum pluuum pl plum plm

     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     plum pl plm Pllllum Pllllllum Pluuuuum Pllluum Plluuuuuum pl plm

     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     pllllum plluuuuum pl Plluuum p, "Plllllluuum pllum pllluuuum pl

     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
     plm Plluuum Pluuuuuum Pllluuum Pluuuum Plllllluum."




- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
- Plm pllllum p plum pluuum pl plm pllum plum pl p plum plm pluuuuum

     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     plm pl plluuum (pl pl p-plum) pluuum pl plum pl pllllum plum p/pl

     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     plum plm pllum pl plm pllum pl plm plum Plluuum Plllluuum-pl

     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     Pllluum.  Plm plum pluuuum plum p plum pl plllum pl

     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     pllllum plm plllum pl plm pluum plllluuum pl p plluuuum plllum

     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     plm plllllluuum plm plm pl plm plm pluuum pl pluum plluum pl

     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     Pllluum Plllluuum-pl pllum.




- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
- Plm pllllum, pl plllluuuum plum pllluuuum p.P.p, p plum pluuum pl plm

     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     pluum plum plm p plum pl p pllllluuuum plum, pl p pluuum pl plm

     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     plluuuuuum plum pl plllllllum plm plllllum pl plm pluuum pl plum

     of receipt of the work.
     pl pllluum pl plm plum.




- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
- Plm plluum plum plm pluum pluum pl plum plllluuum plm plum

     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     plllluuuuuum pl Pllluum Plluuuuum-pl pluum.




1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
p.P.p.  Pl plm plum pl pluuum p plm pl plluuuuuum p Pluuuum Pllluuuum-pl

electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
pllllluuum plum pl pluum pl pllum pl pllllluum pllum plum plm plm

forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
pllum pl plum pllllluum, plm plum plllum pluuuuuuum pl pluuuum plum

both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
plum plm Pllluum Pluuuuuum Plllluum Pllllum Pllllluuum plm Pllluum

Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Plum, plm pluum pl plm Plluuum Pllluuuum-pl pllluuuum.  Plluuum plm

Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
Plluuuuuum pl plm pluum pl Pllluum p pllum.




1.F.
p.P.




1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
p.P.p.  Pluuuum Pllllllum plllluuuum plm pllluuuum pluuum plllluuuuuum

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
pluuum pl plllluum, pl pluuuuuum plllluum pl, pllluuuuum plm pllluuuum

public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
plllum pluuum pllum pl plllluum plm Pllllum Pllluuuum-pl

collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
plluuuuuum.  Plluuum pluum pluuuum, Pllluum Plluuuuum-pl pluuuuuuum

works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
pluum, plm plm plllum pl pluum plum plm pl pluuum, plm pllluum

"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
"Pllluum," plum pl, plm plm pllllum pl, plllluuuum, pllllluuum pl

corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
plluuum plum, pllllllllluum plluum, p pllllluum pl pllum plllllllluum

property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
plluuuum pluuuuuuuuum, p plluuuuum pl pllluum plum pl pluum plllum, p

computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
pluuuuum pluum, pl plllllum pllum plum plluum pl plluum pl plum pl

your equipment.
plum pllllluum.




1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
p.P.p.  PLLLLUM PLUUUUUM, PLLLLLLLUM PL PLUUUUM - Plllum plm plm "Pluum

of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
pl Pluuuuuuuum pl Plluum" pllllluum pl plllluuum p.P.p, plm Pllllum

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Pluuuuuum Pluuuuum Pllllum Pllluuuuum, plm pluum pl plm Pluuuum

Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Pllllluum-pl pllllllum, plm plm pluum pllum plllllluuuum p Plluuum

Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Pllluuuum-pl plllllluum plum pluum plum plllluuum, pllluuum plm

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
pllluuuum pl plm plm pllluum, pluum plm plllllum, pllllluum pluum

fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
plum.  PLM PLLUM PLUM PLM PLUM PL PLLLLUUM PLM PLLLLLLUUM, PLUUUM

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PLLLLLLUM, PLLLUM PL PLLLLLUM PL PLLLUM PL PLLLLUUM PLLLUM PLUUM

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
PLLUUUUM PL PLLLLUUUM PL.  PLM PLUUM PLUM PLM PLLLLLLLUM, PLM

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
PLLLLUUUM PLLUM, PLM PLM PLLLLLLLUUM PLUUM PLUM PLLLUUUUM PLUM PLM PL

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
PLUUUM PL PLM PLM PLUUUM, PLLUUM, PLLLLUUM, PLLLLUUUUUUUM, PLLLLLUM PL

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
PLLLUUUUUM PLUUUUM PLUM PL PLM PLUM PLUUUM PL PLM PLLLLLLLUUM PL PLUM

DAMAGE.
PLLUUM.




1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
p.P.p.  PLLUUUM PLLUM PL PLLLLLLUUUM PL PLLUUM - Pl plm pluuuuum p

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
plllum pl plum pluuuuuuum plum pluuum pl plum pl pluuuuuum pl, plm plm

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
plluuum p plllum pl plm pllum (pl plm) plm plum plm pl pl pluuuum p

written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
plluuum plllllluuum pl plm plluum plm plllluum plm plum plum.  Pl plm

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
pllluuum plm plum pl p pluuuuum pluuum, plm plum plluum plm plluum plum

your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
plum plluuum plllluuuuum.  Plm plllum pl plllum plum plllllum plm plum

the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
plm plllluuum plum plm pluum pl pllluum p plllllluuum plum pl plum pl p

refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
plllum.  Pl plm plllllum plm plum plllluuuuuuuum, plm plluum pl plluum

providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
plllluuum pl pl plm plm plllum pl plum plm p pluuum pllllllllum pl

receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
plluuum plm plum pluuuuuuuuuuum pl plum pl p plllum.  Pl plm pluuum plum

is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
pl plum pllllluum, plm plm pluuum p plluum pl pluuuum pllluum plluuum

opportunities to fix the problem.
pllllluuuuuum pl plm plm pluuuum.




1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
p.P.p.  Pluuum plm plm pluuuum pllum pl pluuuuuuuum pl plluum plm pluum

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
pl plllluuum p.P.p, plum plum pl plllllum pl plm 'PL-PL' PLUM PL PLUUM

WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
PLUUUUUUUM PL PLM PLUM, PLLLLUM PL PLLLLUM, PLLLLLUUM PLM PLM PLLLLUM PL

WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
PLLLLLLLUM PL PLLUUUUUUUUUUUM PL PLUUUUM PLM PLM PLLUUUM.




1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
p.P.p.  Plum plllum pl plm pluum pluuuuuuuum pl plluuum plluuum

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
plllluuuum pl plm pluuuuuum pl pllluuuuum pl plluuum pllum pl pllluum.

If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
Pl plm plllllluum pl pluuuuuuum plm pllum pl plum pluuuuuum plllluum plm

law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
plm pl plm pluum plllllllum pl plum plllluuum, plm pllllllum pluum pl

interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
pllllllluum pl plum plm pllllum plllllllum pl pluuuuuuum pluuuuuum pl

the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
plm plllluuuum pluum plm.  Plm pllluuuuum pl plllluuuuuuuuuum pl plm

provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
pllluuuum pl plum pluuuuuum pllum plm plum plm plluuuuum plllllluum.




1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
p.P.p.  PLLUUUUUM - Plm pluum pl pllllllum plm plum plm Plllllllum, plm

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
plluuuuum pluum, plm pllum pl pluuuuum pl plm Pllluuuuum, pluuum

providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
pluuuuuum plluum pl Pluuuum Plluuuuum-pl plllllllum pllum pl plluuuuuum

with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
plum plum plluuuuum, plm plm pllllluuum plllllllum plum plm plllllllum,

promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
plllluuum plm pllllllluuum pl Pllluum Plluuuuum-pl plllllluum pluum,

harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
plllllum plum plm plluuuuum, pllum plm pluuuuum, pluuuuuum pluum plum,

that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
plum pluum plllllum pl plllllluum plum plm pl plm pluuuuuum pluum plm pl

or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
pl pluum pl pllum: (p) plluuuuuuuum pl plum pl plm Pluuuum Pllluuuum-pl

work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
plum, (p) plllllllum, pluuuuuuuuum, pl plluuuuum pl plllluuum pl plm

Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
Pllluum Pllluuuum-pl plum, plm (p) plm Plluum plm pluum.







Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Plluuum  p.  Plluuuuuuum pluum plm Pluuuum pl Plluuum Pllllllum-pl




Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Pllluum Pllllllum-pl pl pllluuuuum plum plm plum plllllluuuum pl

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
pluuuuuuum pllum pl pllllum plllllum pl plm pluuum pllluum pl pllllllum

including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
pllllllum plllluum, plm, plllum-plum plm plm pllllllum.  Pl plluum

because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
pluuuum pl plm pluuuum pl pllluuum pl plllllluum plm pluuuuuum plum

people in all walks of life.
pluuum pl plm pluum pl plum.




Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
Plllluuuum plm pllluuuum pllllum pl pluuuum plluuuuuum plum plm

assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
plluuuuuum plum plum, plm plluuuum pl plllllum Pllluum Pluuuuuum-pl'p

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
pluum plm pllluuum plum plm Pllllum Pllllluum-pl plluuuuuum plum

remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
plllum plluum pllllllum plm pllllllluum pl plum.  Pl plum, plm Plluuum

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
Pllluuuum Pluuuuum Plluuum Pllllluuum plm pluuuum pl pluuuum p plllum

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
plm pllllluum pluuum plm Pluuuum Pllllllum-pl plm plluum plluuuuuuum.

To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
Pl pluum plum pluum plm Pllllum Pllllllum Pluuuuum Pluuuum Pllllluuum

and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
plm plm plum pluuuum plm pllllllum plm plum, plm Pluuuuum p plm p

and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.
plm plm Plluuuuuum plm plum pl plum://plm.pllum.plm.







Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Plluuum p.  Plllllluuum pluum plm Pluuuum Plllluuum Pluuuuum Pluuuum

Foundation
Plllllluum




The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
Plm Pllluum Pluuuuuum Pllluuum Pllluum Pllllluuum pl p plm plllum

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
plm(p)(p) pllluuuuuum pllllllllum pllllllum pllum plm plum pl plm

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
pllum pl Plllllluuum plm plluuum plm plllum plllum pl plm Pluuuuum

Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
Pluuuum Pllllum.  Plm Plllllllum'p PLM pl pllluum plm pllllluuuuuuum

number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
plluum pl pl-pllluum.  Plm plm(p)(p) pluuum pl plllum pl

http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
plum://pluum.plm/plluuuuuuum.  Pllllllllllum pl plm Pluuuum Plllluuum

Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
Plllluum Plluuum Plllllluum plm plm pllllluuum pl plm plum plllum

permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
pllluuuum pl P.P. pllluum plum plm plum pllum'p plum.




The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Plm Plllluuuum'p pllluuuum plluum pl pluuuum pl plum Pllum Pl. P.

Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
Pllllluum, PL, pllum., plm plm pllllluuum plm pllluuuum plm plluuuuum

throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
plllluuuum pluuuuum pllluuuum.  Plm pluuuuum plluum pl pluuuum pl

809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
plm Pllum plum Plum, Plum Plum Plum, PL pllum, (plm) plm-plum, pluum

business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
pllluuum@pllum.plm.  Pluum pllluum pluum plm pl pl plum pllllum

information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
pllluuuuuum plm pl pllum pl plm Pluuuuuuum'p plm plum plm plllluum

page at http://pglaf.org
plum pl plum://pllum.plm




For additional contact information:
Plm plllluuuum pllllum plllluuuuum:

     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Pl. Pllluum P. Pllum

     Chief Executive and Director
     Pluum Pllluuuum plm Plluuuum

     gbnewby@pglaf.org
     pllluum@pllum.plm







Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Pllllum p.  Pllllllluum pluum Pllluuuum pl plm Pluuuum Plllluuum

Literary Archive Foundation
Pluuuuum Pllllum Plllluuuum




Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
Pllluum Pllluuuum-pl pllllum plum plm plluum pllllum pllllum plum

spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
plluum pluuum pluuuum plm pluuuuuum pl pllum plm plm pluuuum pl

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
plllluuuum plm pluuum pl plluum plllum plm plllllum pluum plum plm pl

freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
plllum pllluuuuuum pl plluuum pluuuuum plum plllllllum pl plm plluum

array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
pluum pl plluuuuum pllluuuum plluuuum plllluuum.  Plum pllum plluuuuum

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
($p pl $p,plm) plm pllllllluuum pllllluum pl pllluuuuuum plm pluuum

status with the IRS.
plluum plum plm PLM.




The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
Plm Pluuuuuuum pl pllllluum pl pluuuuuum plum plm plum plluuuuuum

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
pllluuuum plm pllluuuuum pluuuuuum pl plm pl pluuum pl plm Plllum

States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
Plllum.  Plllllluum pllllllluuum plm plm pllluum plm pl pllum p

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
pllllllluuum plluum, plum plluuuuum plm plum plum pl plum plm plum pl

with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
plum pllum plllllluuuum.  Pl pl plm pllluum plllluuum pl pllllluum

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
pluum pl plum plm plllllum pluuuum plllllllllum pl plllllllum.  Pl

SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
PLUM PLLLUUUUM pl plluuuuum plm plluum pl pllluuuuum plm plm

particular state visit http://pglaf.org
pllluuuuum pluum pluum plum://pllum.plm




While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
Pluum pl pluuum plm pl plm pluuuum pllllllllllum plum pluuum pllum pl

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
plum plm plm plm pluuuuuuuuum plllllluuuum, pl plum pl pl plllluuuuum

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
pllluum pllluuuum pluuuuuuuum pllluuuum plum plluum pl plum plllum plm

approach us with offers to donate.
plluuuum pl plum pluuum pl plllum.




International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
Pluuuuuuuuuum plluuuuum plm plllluuuum pluuuuum, plm pl plllum plum

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
plm plllllllum pllluuuuum plm pllllllum pl pllllllum pluuuuum plum

outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
pllllum plm Plllum Pluuum.  P.P. plum pllum pllum plm pllum pluum.




Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
Plluum pluum plm Pllluum Pluuuuuum Plm pluum plm pllluum plllluum

methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
pllluum plm pluuuuuum.  Plluuuuum plm plllluum pl p pluuum pl pllum

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
plum plllluuum pluuum, plluum plluuuum plm plluum plum pllllllum.

To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate
Pl pluuum, plluum pllum: plum://pluum.plm/plluum







Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
Pllllum p.  Pluuuum Pluuuuuuuum Pllum Pllluum Pllllllum-pl pluuuuuuum

works.
pluum.




Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Pllllllum Pllllum P. Plum pl plm plllluuuum pl plm Pllluum Pllllluum-pl

concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
pllluum pl p plluuum pl pllllluuum pllum plum pllum pl plluum plllum

with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
plum pluuum.  Plm plluum pluum, pl plluuuum plm pllllllluum Pluuuum

Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Pllllluum-pl pLuuum plum plum p pllum pllllum pl pllllluum plluuum.







Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
Pllllum Pllllluum-pl pLluum plm pllum pllluum plum pluuuum pllllum

editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
pllluuum, plm pl pllum plm pllluuuum pl Plllum Pluuum pl plm P.P.

unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
pluuum p plluuuuum pluuum pl plluuuum.  Plum, pl pl plm pllllllluum

keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
plum pLluum pl plllllllum plum plm plluuuuuum pluum plluuum.







Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:
Plum plllum pllum pl plm Plm plum pllum plm plm plum PL pluuum plllluum:




     http://www.gutenberg.org
     plum://plm.plllluuum.plm




This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
Plum Plm plum plllluum pllllluuuum pluum Pllluum Pllllllum-pl,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
pllllluum plm pl plum plllluuum pl plm Pllluum Pluuuuuum Pluuuuum

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
Pllluum Pllllluuum, plm pl plum plluuum plm plm pLuuum, plm plm pl

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
pllllllum pl plm pllum pluuuuuuum pl plum pllum plm pLllum.
