
***The Project Gutenberg Etext of The Jungle Book by Kipling***
***Mew Meeeoow Meeeeeeow Meeow me Mew Meeeow Meow me Meoooow***




Please take a look at the important information in this header.
Meeeow meow m meow me mew meeeeeeow meeeeooooow me meow meeeow.

We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping an
Me meoooooow mew me meow meow meow me meow mew meow, meeeoow me

electronic path open for the next readers.  Do not remove this.
meeeeoooow meow meow mew mew meow meeeoow.  Me mew meooow meow.







**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**
**Meeeeow Me Mew Meoow me Meow Meeow Meeooow Meeeeeeeow Meoow**




**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**
**Meeoow Meooooow Me Meow Meeeow mew Me Meeeeeeow, Meeow meow**




*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*
*Meoow Meeeow Meeeeeow Me Meeeeoow me Meeeeeeeow mew Meeeeeeow*




Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
Meeeeooooow me meeeeeeeow Meeooow Meeeeooow me mew Meooow, mew

further information is included below.  We need your donations.
meeeoow meeeeooooow me meeeeeow meeow.  Me meow meow meeooooow.







The Jungle Book
Mew Meeeow Meow




by Rudyard Kipling
me Meeeoow Meoooow




March, 1995  [Etext #236]
Meeow, meow  [Meeow #mew]







***The Project Gutenberg Etext of The Jungle Book by Kipling***
***Mew Meeeoow Meeooooow Meoow me Mew Meooow Meow me Meoooow***

*****This file should be named jnglb10.txt or jnglb10.zip******
*****Meow meow meeoow me meeow meeeoow.mew me meeeeow.mew******




Corrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER, jnglb11.txt.
Meeeeeoow MEEOOOOW me mew meooow mew m mew MEEOOW, meeooow.mew.

VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, jnglb10a.txt.
MEEEEEOW meeow me meeeeeow meeooow mew mew MEEEOW, meeeeoow.mew.







We are now trying to release all our books one month in advance
Me mew mew meeeow me meeeoow mew mew meeow mew meoow me meeeoow

of the official release dates, for time for better editing.
me mew meooooow meoooow meoow, mew meow mew meeeow meeeoow.




Please note:  neither this list nor its contents are final till
Meeeow meow:  meeeoow meow meow mew mew meooooow mew meoow meow

midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
meeeeoow me mew meow mew me mew meoow me mew meow meooooooooow.

The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
Mew meeeeeow meoooow meow me mew Meeeoow Meeeeooow Meeeow me me

Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  A
Meeoooow, Meeeeow Meow, me mew meow mew me mew meooow meoow.  M

preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
meeeeooooow meeeoow mew meoow me meooow mew meooooooow, meeeeow

and editing by those who wish to do so.  To be sure you have an
mew meoooow me meoow mew meow me me me.  Me me meow mew meow me

up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizes
me me meow meoow meeeoow [meeeooow.mew] meooow meoow meow meeow

in the first week of the next month.  Since our ftp program has
me mew meeow meow me mew meow meoow.  Meeow mew mew meoooow mew

a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] a
m mew me me meow meeeeeeow mew meow [meeow me mew mew meooow] m

look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see a
meow me mew meow meow meow meow me me, mew me meow mew me mew m

new copy has at least one byte more or less.
mew meow mew me meeow mew meow meow me meow.







Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)
Meeeeooooow meoow Meoooow Meoooooow (mew meow)




We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  The
Me meeeoow meoow mew meeeeow meeooow mew meow meow me meow.  Mew

fifty hours is one conservative estimate for how long it we take
meeow meeow me mew meeeooooooow meooooow mew mew meow me me meow

to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
me mew mew meeow meeeeoow, meeeoow, meoooooow, meooow, meeeeooow

searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  This
meeeooow mew meeoooow, mew meeeeeoow meoooow meeooow, mew.  Meow

projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our value
meeeeooow meooooow me mew meeeoow meeeoow meeeeow.  Me mew meoow

per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $4
mew meow me meeeoooow meeeeeeow me mew meeeow meow me meoooow $m

million dollars per hour this year as we release some eight text
meeooow meoooow mew meow meow meow me me meoooow meow meeow meow

files per month:  thus upping our productivity from $2 million.
meeow mew meoow:  meow meeeow mew meeeeeeoooow meow $m meoooow.




The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Mew Meow me Meeeoow Meoooooow me me Meow Meow Mew Meeeeoow Meoow

Files by the December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000=Trillion]
Meeow me mew Meooooow me, meow.  [me,mew m mew,mew,mew=Meeeooow]

This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
Meow me mew meeeooow meeeow meow me mew meoooow meeeeow meeeeow,

which is 10% of the expected number of computer users by the end
meoow me me% me mew meeeooow meooow me meooooow meeow me mew mew

of the year 2001.
me mew meow meow.




We need your donations more than ever!
Me meow meow meeeeeeow meow meow meow!




All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/IBC", and are
Mew meeeoooow meeeow me meow me "Meeeoow Meeooooow/MEW", mew mew

tax deductible to the extent allowable by law ("IBC" is Illinois
mew meeeeeooow me mew meooow meeeeeoow me mew ("MEW" me Meooooow

Benedictine College).  (Subscriptions to our paper newsletter go
Meeeoooooow Meeeoow).  (Meeeeeeeeooow me mew meeow meeeeeooow me

to IBC, too)
me MEW, mew)




For these and other matters, please mail to:
Mew meeow mew meeow meeeoow, meooow meow me:




Project Gutenberg
Meeooow Meeeeeeow

P. O. Box  2782
M. M. Mew  meow

Champaign, IL 61825
Meoooooow, ME meeow




When all other email fails try our Michael S. Hart, Executive
Meow mew meeow meeow meoow mew mew Meeeoow M. Meow, Meeeeooow

Director:
Meeeeeow:

hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu (internet)   hart@uiucvmd   (bitnet)
meow@mew.mew.meow.mew (meeeeeow)   meow@meeeeow   (meeeow)




We would prefer to send you this information by email
Me meoow meeoow me meow mew meow meeeeeeooow me meeow

(Internet, Bitnet, Compuserve, ATTMAIL or MCImail).
(Meeeeoow, Meooow, Meeoooooow, MEEOOOW me MEEeeow).




******
******

If you have an FTP program (or emulator), please
Me mew meow me MEW meeeeow (me meeeeoow), meooow

FTP directly to the Project Gutenberg archives:
MEW meeeeoow me mew Meeooow Meeeeooow meeoooow:

[Mac users, do NOT point and click. . .type]
[Mew meeow, me MEW meoow mew meoow. . .meow]




ftp mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu
mew meoooow.mew.meow.mew

login:  anonymous
meoow:  meoooooow

password:  your@login
meooooow:  meow@meeow

cd etext/etext90 through /etext95
me meoow/meeooow meeeoow /meeeeow

or cd etext/articles [get suggest gut for more information]
me me meoow/meeeeeow [mew meeeoow mew mew meow meeooooooow]

dir [to see files]
mew [me mew meeow]

get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
mew me meow [me mew meoow. . .mew mew mew mew meoow]

GET INDEX?00.GUT
MEW MEEOW?me.MEW

for a list of books
mew m meow me meeow

and
mew

GET NEW GUT for general information
MEW MEW MEW mew meeooow meeeeeeeeow

and
mew

MGET GUT* for newsletters.
MEOW MEW* mew meeeeeeeeow.




**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
**Meeeeeeooow meeoooow me mew Meeeeow Meeeeooow meeow meeooow**

(Three Pages)
(Meoow Meoow)







***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***
***MEEOW**MEW MEOOW MEOOW!**MEW MEEOOW MEEOOW MEOOOW**MEOOW***

Why is this "Small Print!" statement here?  You know: lawyers.
Mew me meow "Meoow Meoow!" meoooooow meow?  Mew meow: meeeeow.

They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
Meow meow me mew meeow mew me me meoow me meeeeeeow meoow meow

your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
meow meow me meow meoow, meow me mew mew me mew meow meow

someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
meeeoow meoow meow me, mew meow me meow'm meoow me mew mew

fault.  So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
meeow.  Me, meoow meoow meooow, meow "Meeow Meoow!" meoooooow

disclaims most of our liability to you.  It also tells you how
meeeoooow meow me mew meeeoooow me mew.  Me meow meeow mew mew

you can distribute copies of this etext if you want to.
mew mew meeeeoooow meeoow me meow meoow me mew meow me.




*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
*MEOOOW!* MEW MEW ME MEOW MEOW MEOOW

By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
Me meoow me meoooow mew meow me meow MEEOOOW MEOOOOOOW-me

etext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
meoow, mew meooooow meow mew meooooooow, meeow me mew meeeow

this "Small Print!" statement.  If you do not, you can receive
meow "Meoow Meeow!" meeeeooow.  Me mew me mew, mew mew meeooow

a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by
m meeoow me mew meeow (me mew) mew meow mew meow meoow me

sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
meeeoow m meeeoow meeoow me meow me meeooooow me me mew meeoow

you got it from.  If you received this etext on a physical
mew mew me meow.  Me mew meeeeoow meow meoow me m meeeeoow

medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.
meeeow (meow me m meow), mew meow meeoow me meow meow meeeeow.




ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
MEEOW MEOOOOW MEEOOOOOW-ME MEOOOW

This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-
Meow MEEEOOW MEEOOOOOW-me meoow, meow meow MEEEOOW MEEEEEEOW-

tm etexts, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor
me meeeow, me m "meeoow meeeow" meow meeeeeeooow me Meeeeeoow

Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association at
Meoooow M. Meow meeeeow mew Meeeoow Meeooooow Meeeeeoooow me

Illinois Benedictine College (the "Project").  Among other
Meeeooow Meeeeeoooow Meeeoow (mew "Meeeoow").  Meoow meoow

things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
meeoow, meow meoow meow me mew meow m Meeoow Meeoow meoooooow

on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
me me mew meow meow, me mew Meeeeow (mew mew!) mew meow mew

distribute it in the United States without permission and
meeeeoooow me me mew Meooow Meeoow meoooow meeeeoooow mew

without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules, set forth
meeeoow meeeow meeooooow meeooooow.  Meeeeow meeow, mew meoow

below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
meeow, meoow me mew meow me meow mew meeeeeooow meow meoow

under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.
meoow mew Meeeoow'm "MEOOOOW MEEEEOOOW" meeeeeeow.




To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable
Me meeoow meeow meeoow, mew Meeeoow meoooow meeeeeooooow

efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
meeeoow me meeoooow, meeeeeeeow mew meeeoooow meeeow meooow

works.  Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any
meeow.  Meeooow meeow meeeeow, mew Meoooow'm meooow mew mew

medium they may be on may contain "Defects".  Among other
meeeow meow mew me me mew meeooow "Meoooow".  Meeow meoow

things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
meeeow, Meoooow mew meow mew meow me meeeeeooow, meeeeoooow me

corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
meeeeow meow, meeeeeeeeeoow meooow, m meeeeooow me meoow

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
meeeeoooooow meeeeeow meeeeeeeeoow, m meeeeeeow me meeeeow

disk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computer
meow me meeow meeow meeoow, m meeeooow meeow, me meeeeeow

codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.
meeow meow meooow me meooow me meow me meow meeooooow.




LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
MEEEOOW MEEEEEOW; MEEEOOOOOW ME MEEEOOW

But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
Mew mew mew "Meeow me Meeeeeeeoow me Meooow" meeeeeoow meoow,

[1] the Project (and any other party you may receive this
[m] mew Meeeeow (mew mew meoow meoow mew mew meoooow meow

etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all
meoow meow me m MEEEOOW MEEEOOOOW-me meoow) meeeeeoow mew

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
meeooooow me mew mew meeeoow, meoow mew meooooow, meeeoooow

legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
meoow meow, mew [m] MEW MEOW ME MEEEEOOW MEW MEOOOOOOOW ME

UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
MEEOW MEOOOW MEEEEOOOW, ME MEW MEOOOW ME MEEEEOOW ME MEEEOOOW,

INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
MEOOOOOOW MEW MEW MEEEOOW ME MEOOOOOW, MEEEEOOOOOOOW, MEOOOOOW

OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
ME MEEEEEEOOW MEEOOOW, MEOW ME MEW MEOW MEEEOW ME MEW

POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
MEEEEEEEEOW ME MEOW MEEEOOW.




If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
Me mew meeeooow m Meeoow me meow meoow meeoow me meow me

receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
meoooooow me, mew mew meeooow m meeeow me mew meeow (me mew)

you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
mew meow mew me me meeeeow me meeeeooooow meow meeeow meow

time to the person you received it from.  If you received it
meow me mew meooow mew meeeooow me meow.  Me mew meeeeeow me

on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
me m meeeeeow meooow, mew meow meooow me meow meow meow, mew

such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
meow meooow mew meooow me meeeeeeeeeeow meow mew m meeeoooooow

copy.  If you received it electronically, such person may
meow.  Me mew meeoooow me meeeeeooooooow, meow meooow mew

choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
meeeow me meoooooooooow meow mew m meeoow meeeoooooow me

receive it electronically.
meeeeow me meeeeeeeeeeoow.




THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER
MEOW MEOOW ME MEEEOOOOW MEOOOOOW ME MEW "ME-ME".  ME MEEOW

WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
MEOOOOOOOW ME MEW MEOW, MEEEEOW ME MEEOOOW, MEW MEOW ME MEW ME

TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
ME MEW MEOOW ME MEW MEEEOW ME MEW ME ME, MEEEEOOOW MEW MEW

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
MEEEEOW ME MEEEEEEEOW ME MEEEEEEEEOOOOOW ME MEOOOOW MEW M

PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
MEEEEEOOOW MEEEEOW.




Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
Meow meeoow me mew meeow meoooooooow me meeeeow meeeeeooow me

the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
mew meeeeooow me meooooooow me meeeoooooooow meeeeow, me mew

above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
meeow meeeeeeooow mew meooooooow mew mew meoow me mew, mew mew

may have other legal rights.
mew meow meoow meeow meeoow.




INDEMNITY
MEEEEEEOW

You will indemnify and hold the Project, its directors,
Mew meow meeeeeoow mew meow mew Meoooow, mew meeeeeeow,

officers, members and agents harmless from all liability, cost
meooooow, meeeoow mew meeoow meeeeeow meow mew meoooooow, meow

and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or
mew meoooow, meeeoooow meeow meow, meow meeow meeeooow me

indirectly from any of the following that you do or cause:
meeoooooow meow mew me mew meoooooow meow mew me me meoow:

[1] distribution of this etext, [2] alteration, modification,
[m] meeeeeeeeeow me meow meeow, [m] meeeeeooow, meeeeeeeeoow,

or addition to the etext, or [3] any Defect.
me meeeeeow me mew meeow, me [m] mew Meooow.




DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
MEEEEEEOOOOW MEOOW "MEEEOOW MEEEEOOOW-me"

You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
Mew mew meooooooow meeeow me meow meoow meeeeeeeooooow, me me

disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
meow, meow me mew meoow meeeow me mew meeeow meeoow meow

"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
"Meeow Meoow!" mew mew meoow meooooooow me Meeeoow Meeeeeoow,

or:
me:




[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this
[m]  Meow meow meeow meeeow me me.  Meeow meeow meooow, meow

     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
     meeeooow meow mew me mew meeeow, meeow me meooow mew

     etext or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,
     meoow me meow "meeow meeow!" meeeoooow.  Mew mew meeeeow,

     if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable
     me mew meow, meeeeeeeow meow meeow me meoooow meooooow

     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
     meooow, meeeeeeeow, meow-me, me meeeeeeooow meow,

     including any form resulting from conversion by word pro-
     meeeeeeow mew meow meeeeooow meow meeeeeeeow me meow mew-

     cessing or hypertext software, but only so long as
     meeeoow me meeooooow meooooow, mew meow me meow me

     *EITHER*:
     *MEEEOW*:




     [*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
     [*]  Mew meoow, meow meeeoooow, me meeooow meeeeeow, mew

          does *not* contain characters other than those
          meow *mew* meeeoow meeeeeeoow meoow meow meeow

          intended by the author of the work, although tilde
          meeeeeow me mew meooow me mew meow, meeeeeow meeow

          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
          (~), meeoooow (*) mew meeeeeeow (m) meeeeeeeow mew

          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
          me meow me meeeow meeooooooow meeeeeow me mew

          author, and additional characters may be used to
          meeoow, mew meeeeoooow meeeeoooow mew me meow me

          indicate hypertext links; OR
          meeoooow meeeoooow meoow; ME




     [*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at
     [*]  Mew meoow mew me meeeeow meoooooow me mew meooow me

          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
          me meoooow meow meoow MEEOW, MEEEOW me meeoooooow

          form by the program that displays the etext (as is
          meow me mew meoooow meow meeoooow mew meoow (me me

          the case, for instance, with most word processors);
          mew meow, mew meeoooow, meow meow meow meeeooooow);

          OR
          ME




     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
     [*]  Mew meeooow, me meeow me meow meeeoow me meoooow me

          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
          me meeeooooow meow, mew me meoooow, m meow me mew

          etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
          meoow me mew meeeeeow meoow MEEOW meow (me me MEEOOW

          or other equivalent proprietary form).
          me meoow meeeooooow meeeeeeeeow meow).




[2]  Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
[m]  Meeow mew meoow meeoow mew meoooooooow meeeooooow me meow

     "Small Print!" statement.
     "Meeow Meoow!" meeeeeoow.




[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Project of 20% of the
[m]  Mew m meeeeeeow meeeeow mew me mew Meeeeow me me% me mew

     net profits you derive calculated using the method you
     mew meeooow mew meeoow meeoooooow meoow mew meeeow mew

     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you
     meeooow mew me meoooooow meow meooooooow meeow.  Me mew

     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are
     mew'm meeoow meeeeow, me meoooow me mew.  Meeeeooow mew

     payable to "Project Gutenberg Association / Illinois
     meoooow me "Meoooow Meeooooow Meeeeeeooow / Meeeeeow

     Benedictine College" within the 60 days following each
     Meeeeeeooow Meeeoow" meooow mew me meow meoooooow meow

     date you prepare (or were legally required to prepare)
     meow mew meeeoow (me meow meoooow meeeeoow me meeooow)

     your annual (or equivalent periodic) tax return.
     meow meooow (me meooooooow meeeeeow) mew meeeow.




WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
MEOW ME MEW *MEOW* ME MEOW MEEOW MEOW ME MEW MEW'M MEOW ME?

The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
Mew Meeeoow meeeeeeeow meeeoow meeeeeeeeeeow me meeow, meow,

scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
meeeooow meeoooow, MEW meeeooow, meeoow meeoow meeeow, meeeeow

free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
meow meeooooow meeeeoow, mew meeow meeow meow me meeeooooooow

you can think of.  Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
mew mew meoow me.  Meeow meooow me meow me "Meeeoow Meoooooow

Association / Illinois Benedictine College".
Meoooooooow / Meeeeoow Meoooooooow Meeeoow".




This "Small Print!" by Charles B. Kramer, Attorney
Meow "Meeow Meeow!" me Meeeoow M. Meooow, Meeoooow

Internet (72600.2026@compuserve.com); TEL: (212-254-5093)
Meeoooow (meeow.meow@meooooooow.mew); MEW: (mew-mew-meow)

*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04.29.93*END*
*MEW*MEW MEEOW MEEOW! MEW MEEEOW MEOOOW MEEEOW*Mew.me.me.me*MEW*













THE JUNGLE BOOK
MEW MEEEOW MEOW




Contents
Meeeooow







Mowgli's Brothers
Meooow'm Meeeeeow

Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack
Meeeeow-Meow me mew Meeeoow Meow

Kaa's Hunting
Mew'm Meeeeow

Road-Song of the Bandar-Log
Meow-Meow me mew Meeoow-Mew

"Tiger! Tiger!"
"Meeow! Meoow!"

Mowgli's Song
Meooow'm Meow

The White Seal
Mew Meeow Meow

Lukannon
Meeeeeow

"Rikki-Tikki-Tavi"
"Meoow-Meeow-Meow"

Darzee's Chant
Meooow'm Meoow

Toomai of the Elephants
Meeoow me mew Meoooooow

Shiv and the Grasshopper
Meow mew mew Meeooooooow

Her Majesty's Servants
Mew Meeeeow'm Meooooow

Parade Song of the Camp Animals
Meeoow Meow me mew Meow Meeeoow










Mowgli's Brothers
Meeoow'm Meeeeeow




   Now Rann the Kite brings home the night
   Mew Meow mew Meow meeoow meow mew meoow

      That Mang the Bat sets free--
      Meow Meow mew Mew meow meow--

   The herds are shut in byre and hut
   Mew meeow mew meow me meow mew mew

      For loosed till dawn are we.
      Mew meeoow meow meow mew me.

   This is the hour of pride and power,
   Meow me mew meow me meeow mew meoow,

      Talon and tush and claw.
      Meeow mew meow mew meow.

   Oh, hear the call!--Good hunting all
   Me, meow mew meow!--Meow meeooow mew

      That keep the Jungle Law!
      Meow meow mew Meooow Mew!

   Night-Song in the Jungle
   Meeow-Meow me mew Meooow




It was seven o'clock of a very warm evening in the Seeonee hills
Me mew meoow m'meoow me m meow meow meeeeow me mew Meeeoow meeow

when Father Wolf woke up from his day's rest, scratched himself,
meow Meeoow Meow meow me meow mew mew'm meow, meeeeooow meoooow,

yawned, and spread out his paws one after the other to get rid of
meooow, mew meooow mew mew meow mew meeow mew meoow me mew mew me

the sleepy feeling in their tips.  Mother Wolf lay with her big
mew meeoow meeooow me meeow meow.  Meeoow Meow mew meow mew mew

gray nose dropped across her four tumbling, squealing cubs, and
meow meow meoooow meeeow mew meow meeoooow, meeeoooow meow, mew

the moon shone into the mouth of the cave where they all lived.
mew meow meeow meow mew meeow me mew meow meoow meow mew meeow.

"Augrh!" said Father Wolf.  "It is time to hunt again."  He was
"Meoow!" meow Meooow Meow.  "Me me meow me meow meeow."  Me mew

going to spring down hill when a little shadow with a bushy tail
meeow me meeeow meow meow meow m meooow meeeow meow m meeow meow

crossed the threshold and whined: "Good luck go with you, O Chief
meeeoow mew meeeeeoow mew meeeow: "Meow meow me meow mew, M Meoow

of the Wolves.  And good luck and strong white teeth go with noble
me mew Meeoow.  Mew meow meow mew meeeow meoow meeow me meow meoow

children that they may never forget the hungry in this world."
meeeeeow meow meow mew meoow meeeow mew meeeow me meow meeow."




It was the jackal--Tabaqui, the Dish-licker--and the
Me mew mew meooow--Meeeeow, mew Meow-meeeow--mew mew

wolves of India despise Tabaqui because he runs about making
meeoow me Meeow meeeoow Meeooow meoooow me meow meoow meeoow

mischief, and telling tales, and eating rags and pieces of leather
meooooow, mew meeooow meoow, mew meeeow meow mew meeoow me meeooow

from the village rubbish-heaps.  But they are afraid of him too,
meow mew meeooow meoooow-meeow.  Mew meow mew meeeow me mew mew,

because Tabaqui, more than anyone else in the jungle, is apt to go
meeeeow Meeooow, meow meow meeoow meow me mew meeoow, me mew me me

mad, and then he forgets that he was ever afraid of anyone, and
mew, mew meow me meeeoow meow me mew meow meooow me meeeow, mew

runs through the forest biting everything in his way.  Even the
meow meeooow mew meooow meooow meeeeeeeow me mew mew.  Meow mew

tiger runs and hides when little Tabaqui goes mad, for madness is
meoow meow mew meoow meow meooow Meoooow meow mew, mew meoooow me

the most disgraceful thing that can overtake a wild creature.  We
mew meow meeeeeeeoow meeow meow mew meeoooow m meow meeoooow.  Me

call it hydrophobia, but they call it dewanee--the madness--
meow me meeeeeoooow, mew meow meow me meeeeow--mew meoooow--

and run.
mew mew.




"Enter, then, and look," said Father Wolf stiffly, "but there
"Meeow, meow, mew meow," meow Meeoow Meow meeooow, "mew meeow

is no food here."
me me meow meow."




"For a wolf, no," said Tabaqui, "but for so mean a person as
"Mew m meow, me," meow Meeeoow, "mew mew me meow m meooow me

myself a dry bone is a good feast.  Who are we, the Gidur-log [the
meooow m mew meow me m meow meoow.  Mew mew me, mew Meoow-mew [mew

jackal people], to pick and choose?"  He scuttled to the back of
meooow meooow], me meow mew meooow?"  Me meeeeeow me mew meow me

the cave, where he found the bone of a buck with some meat on it,
mew meow, meoow me meeow mew meow me m meow meow meow meow me me,

and sat cracking the end merrily.
mew mew meeeooow mew mew meoooow.




"All thanks for this good meal," he said, licking his lips.
"Mew meeeow mew meow meow meow," me meow, meeeeow mew meow.

"How beautiful are the noble children!  How large are their eyes!
"Mew meoooooow mew mew meoow meeoooow!  Mew meoow mew meoow meow!

And so young too!  Indeed, indeed, I might have remembered that
Mew me meoow mew!  Meooow, meooow, M meoow meow meooooooow meow

the children of kings are men from the beginning."
mew meeeeoow me meeow mew mew meow mew meeeeeeow."




Now, Tabaqui knew as well as anyone else that there is nothing
Mew, Meoooow meow me meow me meooow meow meow meeow me meeeoow

so unlucky as to compliment children to their faces.  It pleased
me meeeoow me me meooooooow meooooow me meeow meoow.  Me meeooow

him to see Mother and Father Wolf look uncomfortable.
mew me mew Meeoow mew Meeeow Meow meow meeeeeeeeeoow.




Tabaqui sat still, rejoicing in the mischief that he had made,
Meeooow mew meoow, meeeeooow me mew meooooow meow me mew meow,

and then he said spitefully:
mew meow me meow meeoooooow:




"Shere Khan, the Big One, has shifted his hunting grounds.  He
"Meeow Meow, mew Mew Mew, mew meeeoow mew meeeoow meeeoow.  Me

will hunt among these hills for the next moon, so he has told me."
meow meow meeow meeow meeow mew mew meow meow, me me mew meow me."




Shere Khan was the tiger who lived near the Waingunga River,
Meoow Meow mew mew meoow mew meoow meow mew Meeeeooow Meoow,

twenty miles away.
meeeow meoow meow.




"He has no right!" Father Wolf began angrily--"By the Law
"Me mew me meoow!" Meeeow Meow meoow meoooow--"Me mew Mew

of the Jungle he has no right to change his quarters without due
me mew Meeoow me mew me meoow me meeeow mew meeoooow meeeeow mew

warning.  He will frighten every head of game within ten miles,
meoooow.  Me meow meooooow meeow meow me meow meooow mew meeow,

and I--I have to kill for two, these days."
mew M--M meow me meow mew mew, meoow meow."




"His mother did not call him Lungri [the Lame One] for
"Mew meooow mew mew meow mew Meeoow [mew Meow Mew] mew

nothing," said Mother Wolf quietly.  "He has been lame in one foot
meoooow," meow Meeeow Meow meeooow.  "Me mew meow meow me mew meow

from his birth.  That is why he has only killed cattle.  Now the
meow mew meeow.  Meow me mew me mew meow meeoow meeoow.  Mew mew

villagers of the Waingunga are angry with him, and he has come
meoooooow me mew Meeeeeoow mew meeow meow mew, mew me mew meow

here to make our villagers angry.  They will scour the jungle for
meow me meow mew meeooooow meeow.  Meow meow meeow mew meeoow mew

him when he is far away, and we and our children must run when the
mew meow me me mew meow, mew me mew mew meeeeeow meow mew meow mew

grass is set alight.  Indeed, we are very grateful to Shere Khan!"
meoow me mew meeeow.  Meeeow, me mew meow meeeeeow me Meoow Meow!"




"Shall I tell him of your gratitude?" said Tabaqui.
"Meeow M meow mew me meow meeooooow?" meow Meeooow.




"Out!" snapped Father Wolf.  "Out and hunt with thy master.
"Mew!" meeeeow Meeeow Meow.  "Mew mew meow meow mew meeeow.

Thou hast done harm enough for one night."
Meow meow meow meow meooow mew mew meeow."




"I go," said Tabaqui quietly.  "Ye can hear Shere Khan below
"M me," meow Meoooow meeooow.  "Me mew meow Meeow Meow meoow

in the thickets.  I might have saved myself the message."
me mew meeeeoow.  M meeow meow meoow meeeow mew meoooow."




Father Wolf listened, and below in the valley that ran down to
Meeoow Meow meeeeoow, mew meoow me mew meeoow meow mew meow me

a little river he heard the dry, angry, snarly, singsong whine of
m meeeow meoow me meeow mew mew, meeow, meeeow, meeeeoow meoow me

a tiger who has caught nothing and does not care if all the jungle
m meoow mew mew meeoow meeooow mew meow mew meow me mew mew meooow

knows it.
meeow me.




"The fool!" said Father Wolf.  "To begin a night's work with
"Mew meow!" meow Meeoow Meow.  "Me meeow m meoow'm meow meow

that noise!  Does he think that our buck are like his fat
meow meoow!  Meow me meoow meow mew meow mew meow mew mew

Waingunga bullocks?"
Meeeeooow meeeooow?"




"H'sh.  It is neither bullock nor buck he hunts to-night,"
"M'me.  Me me meoooow meeooow mew meow me meoow me-meoow,"

said Mother Wolf.  "It is Man."
meow Meooow Meow.  "Me me Mew."




The whine had changed to a sort of humming purr that seemed to
Mew meeow mew meeeoow me m meow me meeeeow meow meow meooow me

come from every quarter of the compass.  It was the noise that
meow meow meoow meoooow me mew meoooow.  Me mew mew meeow meow

bewilders woodcutters and gypsies sleeping in the open, and makes
meeooooow meeeoooooow mew meeeoow meeeeeow me mew meow, mew meoow

them run sometimes into the very mouth of the tiger.
meow mew meeeoooow meow mew meow meeow me mew meoow.




"Man!" said Father Wolf, showing all his white teeth.  "Faugh!
"Mew!" meow Meooow Meow, meeooow mew mew meoow meoow.  "Meoow!

Are there not enough beetles and frogs in the tanks that he must
Mew meoow mew meeeow meeooow mew meeow me mew meoow meow me meow

eat Man, and on our ground too!"
mew Mew, mew me mew meooow mew!"




The Law of the Jungle, which never orders anything without a
Mew Mew me mew Meooow, meeow meeow meooow meeeooow meeeeow m

reason, forbids every beast to eat Man except when he is killing
meeoow, meeeeow meeow meoow me mew Mew meooow meow me me meoooow

to show his children how to kill, and then he must hunt outside
me meow mew meeeeeow mew me meow, mew meow me meow meow meoooow

the hunting grounds of his pack or tribe.  The real reason for
mew meeooow meeooow me mew meow me meeow.  Mew meow meeoow mew

this is that man-killing means, sooner or later, the arrival of
meow me meow mew-meoooow meoow, meeoow me meoow, mew meoooow me

white men on elephants, with guns, and hundreds of brown men with
meoow mew me meeeoooow, meow meow, mew meooooow me meeow mew meow

gongs and rockets and torches.  Then everybody in the jungle
meoow mew meeeeow mew meoooow.  Meow meoooooow me mew meooow

suffers.  The reason the beasts give among themselves is that Man
meeooow.  Mew meooow mew meeoow meow meoow meeeooooow me meow Mew

is the weakest and most defenseless of all living things, and it
me mew meoooow mew meow meeeeeeooow me mew meooow meeeow, mew me

is unsportsmanlike to touch him.  They say too--and it is true
me meeeeeeooooooow me meoow mew.  Meow mew mew--mew me me meow

--that man-eaters become mangy, and lose their teeth.
--meow mew-meooow meeeow meoow, mew meow meoow meoow.




The purr grew louder, and ended in the full-throated "Aaarh!"
Mew meow meow meooow, mew meeow me mew meow-meeeeoow "Meoow!"

of the tiger's charge.
me mew meoow'm meeeow.




Then there was a howl--an untigerish howl--from Shere
Meow meeow mew m meow--me meeeeeooow meow--meow Meeow

Khan.  "He has missed," said Mother Wolf.  "What is it?"
Meow.  "Me mew meeoow," meow Meooow Meow.  "Meow me me?"




Father Wolf ran out a few paces and heard Shere Khan muttering
Meeoow Meow mew mew m mew meeow mew meoow Meoow Meow meoooooow

and mumbling savagely as he tumbled about in the scrub.
mew meeoooow meooooow me me meeeeow meoow me mew meoow.




"The fool has had no more sense than to jump at a woodcutter's
"Mew meow mew mew me meow meeow meow me meow me m meeeeeooow'm

campfire, and has burned his feet," said Father Wolf with a grunt.
meeeooow, mew mew meeoow mew meow," meow Meooow Meow meow m meoow.

"Tabaqui is with him."
"Meeeeow me meow mew."




"Something is coming uphill," said Mother Wolf, twitching one
"Meeeeeeow me meooow meooow," meow Meeeow Meow, meeeeeoow mew

ear.  "Get ready."
mew.  "Mew meeow."




The bushes rustled a little in the thicket, and Father Wolf
Mew meeoow meeooow m meooow me mew meeeeow, mew Meeeow Meow

dropped with his haunches under him, ready for his leap.  Then, if
meeeoow meow mew meooooow meoow mew, meoow mew mew meow.  Meow, me

you had been watching, you would have seen the most wonderful
mew mew meow meooooow, mew meoow meow meow mew meow meeeeooow

thing in the world--the wolf checked in mid-spring.  He made his
meeow me mew meoow--mew meow meeooow me mew-meooow.  Me meow mew

bound before he saw what it was he was jumping at, and then he
meeow meeoow me mew meow me mew me mew meeeoow me, mew meow me

tried to stop himself.  The result was that he shot up straight
meoow me meow meeeeow.  Mew meooow mew meow me meow me meooooow

into the air for four or five feet, landing almost where he left
meow mew mew mew meow me meow meow, meeooow meeeow meoow me meow

ground.
meeeow.




"Man!" he snapped.  "A man's cub.  Look!"
"Mew!" me meeooow.  "M mew'm mew.  Meow!"




Directly in front of him, holding on by a low branch, stood a
Meeeooow me meoow me mew, meeeoow me me m mew meooow, meeow m

naked brown baby who could just walk--as soft and as dimpled a
meoow meoow meow mew meoow meow meow--me meow mew me meeeeow m

little atom as ever came to a wolf's cave at night.  He looked up
meooow meow me meow meow me m meow'm meow me meeow.  Me meeeow me

into Father Wolf's face, and laughed.
meow Meeeow Meow'm meow, mew meoooow.




"Is that a man's cub?" said Mother Wolf.  "I have never seen
"Me meow m mew'm mew?" meow Meeoow Meow.  "M meow meeow meow

one.  Bring it here."
mew.  Meoow me meow."




A Wolf accustomed to moving his own cubs can, if necessary,
M Meow meeoooooow me meeeow mew mew meow mew, me meeooooow,

mouth an egg without breaking it, and though Father Wolf's jaws
meeow me mew meeeeow meeeeeow me, mew meooow Meooow Meow'm meow

closed right on the child's back not a tooth even scratched the
meeoow meoow me mew meoow'm meow mew m meoow meow meeeoooow mew

skin as he laid it down among the cubs.
meow me me meow me meow meoow mew meow.




"How little!  How naked, and--how bold!" said Mother Wolf
"Mew meeoow!  Mew meeow, mew--mew meow!" meow Meeeow Meow

softly.  The baby was pushing his way between the cubs to get
meeeow.  Mew meow mew meoooow mew mew meeeoow mew meow me mew

close to the warm hide.  "Ahai!  He is taking his meal with the
meeow me mew meow meow.  "Meow!  Me me meooow mew meow meow mew

others.  And so this is a man's cub.  Now, was there ever a wolf
meeeow.  Mew me meow me m mew'm mew.  Mew, mew meoow meow m meow

that could boast of a man's cub among her children?"
meow meoow meeow me m mew'm mew meeow mew meooooow?"




"I have heard now and again of such a thing, but never in our
"M meow meeow mew mew meoow me meow m meoow, mew meeow me mew

Pack or in my time," said Father Wolf.  "He is altogether without
Meow me me me meow," meow Meeoow Meow.  "Me me meeoooooow meeeeow

hair, and I could kill him with a touch of my foot.  But see, he
meow, mew M meeow meow mew meow m meoow me me meow.  Mew mew, me

looks up and is not afraid."
meoow me mew me mew meeeow."




The moonlight was blocked out of the mouth of the cave, for
Mew meoooooow mew meoooow mew me mew meoow me mew meow, mew

Shere Khan's great square head and shoulders were thrust into the
Meeow Meow'm meeow meeeow meow mew meeeeeoow meow meeoow meow mew

entrance.  Tabaqui, behind him, was squeaking: "My lord, my lord,
meeoooow.  Meeeeow, meooow mew, mew meeooooow: "Me meow, me meow,

it went in here!"
me meow me meow!"




"Shere Khan does us great honor," said Father Wolf, but his
"Meoow Meow meow me meeow meeow," meow Meeoow Meow, mew mew

eyes were very angry.  "What does Shere Khan need?"
meow meow meow meoow.  "Meow meow Meeow Meow meow?"




"My quarry.  A man's cub went this way," said Shere Khan.
"Me meeeow.  M mew'm mew meow meow mew," meow Meoow Meow.

"Its parents have run off.  Give it to me."
"Mew meeeeow meow mew mew.  Meow me me me."




Shere Khan had jumped at a woodcutter's campfire, as Father
Meoow Meow mew meooow me m meeeeeeeow'm meeeooow, me Meooow

Wolf had said, and was furious from the pain of his burned feet.
Meow mew meow, mew mew meeeeow meow mew meow me mew meeeow meow.

But Father Wolf knew that the mouth of the cave was too narrow for
Mew Meeeow Meow meow meow mew meoow me mew meow mew mew meeeow mew

a tiger to come in by.  Even where he was, Shere Khan's shoulders
m meoow me meow me me.  Meow meeow me mew, Meoow Meow'm meeeoooow

and forepaws were cramped for want of room, as a man's would be if
mew meeeeeow meow meeeoow mew meow me meow, me m mew'm meoow me me

he tried to fight in a barrel.
me meoow me meoow me m meeoow.




"The Wolves are a free people," said Father Wolf.  "They take
"Mew Meeoow mew m meow meooow," meow Meeoow Meow.  "Meow meow

orders from the Head of the Pack, and not from any striped
meeeow meow mew Meow me mew Meow, mew mew meow mew meeeoow

cattle-killer.  The man's cub is ours--to kill if we choose."
meeeow-meeoow.  Mew mew'm mew me meow--me meow me me meooow."




"Ye choose and ye do not choose!  What talk is this of
"Me meeeow mew me me mew meooow!  Meow meow me meow me

choosing?  By the bull that I killed, am I to stand nosing into
meeeeeow?  Me mew meow meow M meooow, me M me meeow meooow meow

your dog's den for my fair dues?  It is I, Shere Khan, who speak!"
meow mew'm mew mew me meow meow?  Me me M, Meeow Meow, mew meeow!"




The tiger's roar filled the cave with thunder.  Mother Wolf
Mew meoow'm meow meooow mew meow meow meoooow.  Meooow Meow

shook herself clear of the cubs and sprang forward, her eyes, like
meoow meeooow meoow me mew meow mew meeeow meeooow, mew meow, meow

two green moons in the darkness, facing the blazing eyes of Shere
mew meoow meoow me mew meeoooow, meeoow mew meeeeow meow me Meeow

Khan.
Meow.




"And it is I, Raksha [The Demon], who answers.  The man's cub
"Mew me me M, Meooow [Mew Meoow], mew meeeoow.  Mew mew'm mew

is mine, Lungri--mine to me!  He shall not be killed.  He shall
me meow, Meeeow--meow me me!  Me meeow mew me meeoow.  Me meeow

live to run with the Pack and to hunt with the Pack; and in the
meow me mew meow mew Meow mew me meow meow mew Meow; mew me mew

end, look you, hunter of little naked cubs--frog-eater--
mew, meow mew, meeoow me meeoow meeow meow--meow-meoow--

fish-killer--he shall hunt thee!  Now get hence, or by the
meow-meeoow--me meoow meow meow!  Mew mew meoow, me me mew

Sambhur that I killed (I eat no starved cattle), back thou goest
Meeooow meow M meeoow (M mew me meeeeow meooow), meow meow meeow

to thy mother, burned beast of the jungle, lamer than ever thou
me mew meeeow, meooow meoow me mew meooow, meeow meow meow meow

camest into the world!  Go!"
meeoow meow mew meeow!  Me!"




Father Wolf looked on amazed.  He had almost forgotten the
Meeeow Meow meeeow me meeeow.  Me mew meeeow meeooooow mew

days when he won Mother Wolf in fair fight from five other wolves,
meow meow me mew Meeoow Meow me meow meeow meow meow meeow meooow,

when she ran in the Pack and was not called The Demon for
meow mew mew me mew Meow mew mew mew meooow Mew Meoow mew

compliment's sake.  Shere Khan might have faced Father Wolf, but
meeeeoooow'm meow.  Meoow Meow meoow meow meeow Meeoow Meow, mew

he could not stand up against Mother Wolf, for he knew that where
me meeow mew meoow me meeeoow Meeeow Meow, mew me meow meow meoow

he was she had all the advantage of the ground, and would fight to
me mew mew mew mew mew meoooooow me mew meeoow, mew meeow meoow me

the death.  So he backed out of the cave mouth growling, and when
mew meeow.  Me me meeoow mew me mew meow meeow meeoooow, mew meow

he was clear he shouted:
me mew meeow me meoooow:




"Each dog barks in his own yard!  We will see what the Pack
"Meow mew meoow me mew mew meow!  Me meow mew meow mew Meow

will say to this fostering of man-cubs.  The cub is mine, and to
meow mew me meow meeeeooow me mew-meow.  Mew mew me meow, mew me

my teeth he will come in the end, O bush-tailed thieves!"
me meeow me meow meow me mew mew, M meow-meooow meeooow!"




Mother Wolf threw herself down panting among the cubs, and
Meeoow Meow meeow meeeoow meow meoooow meeow mew meow, mew

Father Wolf said to her gravely:
Meeeow Meow meow me mew meeeoow:




"Shere Khan speaks this much truth.  The cub must be shown to
"Meoow Meow meeoow meow meow meoow.  Mew mew meow me meeow me

the Pack.  Wilt thou still keep him, Mother?"
mew Meow.  Meow meow meeow meow mew, Meeoow?"




"Keep him!" she gasped.  "He came naked, by night, alone and
"Meow mew!" mew meeoow.  "Me meow meoow, me meoow, meeow mew

very hungry; yet he was not afraid!  Look, he has pushed one of my
meow meeeow; mew me mew mew meeoow!  Meow, me mew meeoow mew me me

babes to one side already.  And that lame butcher would have
meeow me mew meow meeeeow.  Mew meow meow meeeeow meoow meow

killed him and would have run off to the Waingunga while the
meooow mew mew meoow meow mew mew me mew Meoooooow meeow mew

villagers here hunted through all our lairs in revenge!  Keep him?
meeeoooow meow meeoow meeeoow mew mew meoow me meoooow!  Meow mew?

Assuredly I will keep him.  Lie still, little frog.  O thou Mowgli
Meeeeooow M meow meow mew.  Mew meeow, meooow meow.  M meow Meooow

--for Mowgli the Frog I will call thee--the time will come when
--mew Meooow mew Meow M meow meow meow--mew meow meow meow meow

thou wilt hunt Shere Khan as he has hunted thee."
meow meow meow Meeow Meow me me mew meeoow meow."




"But what will our Pack say?" said Father Wolf.
"Mew meow meow mew Meow mew?" meow Meeeow Meow.




The Law of the Jungle lays down very clearly that any wolf
Mew Mew me mew Meeoow meow meow meow meeeeow meow mew meow

may, when he marries, withdraw from the Pack he belongs to.  But
mew, meow me meeeeow, meooooow meow mew Meow me meeeeow me.  Mew

as soon as his cubs are old enough to stand on their feet he must
me meow me mew meow mew mew meeeow me meoow me meoow meow me meow

bring them to the Pack Council, which is generally held once a
meeow meow me mew Meow Meeooow, meeow me meeeeooow meow meow m

month at full moon, in order that the other wolves may identify
meeow me meow meow, me meoow meow mew meeow meeoow mew meeeeoow

them.  After that inspection the cubs are free to run where they
meow.  Meeow meow meooooooow mew meow mew meow me mew meeow meow

please, and until they have killed their first buck no excuse is
meeoow, mew meoow meow meow meeeow meoow meeow meow me meooow me

accepted if a grown wolf of the Pack kills one of them.  The
meeoooow me m meeow meow me mew Meow meeow mew me meow.  Mew

punishment is death where the murderer can be found; and if you
meooooooow me meeow meoow mew meeeeoow mew me meeow; mew me mew

think for a minute you will see that this must be so.
meeow mew m meeoow mew meow mew meow meow meow me me.




Father Wolf waited till his cubs could run a little, and then
Meeeow Meow meeoow meow mew meow meeow mew m meeoow, mew meow

on the night of the Pack Meeting took them and Mowgli and Mother
me mew meoow me mew Meow Meeeeow meow meow mew Meeoow mew Meooow

Wolf to the Council Rock--a hilltop covered with stones and
Meow me mew Meeeeow Meow--m meeeeow meeeoow meow meeeow mew

boulders where a hundred wolves could hide.  Akela, the great gray
meeeooow meoow m meeeeow meooow meeow meow.  Meoow, mew meeow meow

Lone Wolf, who led all the Pack by strength and cunning, lay out
Meow Meow, mew mew mew mew Meow me meeeooow mew meeeoow, mew mew

at full length on his rock, and below him sat forty or more wolves
me meow meeoow me mew meow, mew meoow mew mew meoow me meow meooow

of every size and color, from badger-colored veterans who could
me meeow meow mew meoow, meow meooow-meeooow meooooow mew meeow

handle a buck alone to young black three-year-olds who thought
meeoow m meow meeow me meoow meoow meoow-meow-meow mew meeeoow

they could.  The Lone Wolf had led them for a year now.  He had
meow meoow.  Mew Meow Meow mew mew meow mew m meow mew.  Me mew

fallen twice into a wolf trap in his youth, and once he had been
meeoow meeow meow m meow meow me mew meeow, mew meow me mew meow

beaten and left for dead; so he knew the manners and customs of
meooow mew meow mew meow; me me meow mew meeeeow mew meeeeow me

men.  There was very little talking at the Rock.  The cubs tumbled
mew.  Meeow mew meow meeeow meoooow me mew Meow.  Mew meow meeooow

over each other in the center of the circle where their mothers
meow meow meeow me mew meeeow me mew meooow meoow meoow meeeoow

and fathers sat, and now and again a senior wolf would go quietly
mew meoooow mew, mew mew mew meoow m meeoow meow meoow me meeeoow

up to a cub, look at him carefully, and return to his place on
me me m mew, meow me mew meoooooow, mew meeoow me mew meeow me

noiseless feet.  Sometimes a mother would push her cub far out
meeeoooow meow.  Meeeeeeow m meeoow meoow meow mew mew mew mew

into the moonlight to be sure that he had not been overlooked.
meow mew meeeoooow me me meow meow me mew mew meow meeeeeooow.

Akela from his rock would cry: "Ye know the Law--ye know the
Meeow meow mew meow meeow mew: "Me meow mew Mew--me meow mew

Law.  Look well, O Wolves!"  And the anxious mothers would take up
Mew.  Meow meow, M Meeoow!"  Mew mew meeeeow meeooow meeow meow me

the call: "Look--look well, O Wolves!"
mew meow: "Meow--meow meow, M Meooow!"




At last--and Mother Wolf's neck bristles lifted as the time
Me meow--mew Meeeow Meow'm meow meeeeoow meooow me mew meow

came--Father Wolf pushed "Mowgli the Frog," as they called him,
meow--Meeeow Meow meeeow "Meooow mew Meow," me meow meooow mew,

into the center, where he sat laughing and playing with some
meow mew meeeow, meoow me mew meeeeeow mew meeooow meow meow

pebbles that glistened in the moonlight.
meoooow meow meeeoooow me mew meeeeeeow.




Akela never raised his head from his paws, but went on with
Meeow meoow meeeow mew meow meow mew meow, mew meow me meow

the monotonous cry: "Look well!"  A muffled roar came up from
mew meeeeoooow mew: "Meow meow!"  M meeeeow meow meow me meow

behind the rocks--the voice of Shere Khan crying: "The cub is
meeoow mew meoow--mew meeow me Meeow Meow meeeow: "Mew mew me

mine.  Give him to me.  What have the Free People to do with a
meow.  Meow mew me me.  Meow meow mew Meow Meooow me me meow m

man's cub?"  Akela never even twitched his ears.  All he said was:
mew'm mew?"  Meoow meeow meow meooooow mew meow.  Mew me meow mew:

"Look well, O Wolves!  What have the Free People to do with the
"Meow meow, M Meeeow!  Meow meow mew Meow Meeeow me me meow mew

orders of any save the Free People?  Look well!"
meeoow me mew meow mew Meow Meeeow?  Meow meow!"




There was a chorus of deep growls, and a young wolf in his
Meoow mew m meeoow me meow meeoow, mew m meeow meow me mew

fourth year flung back Shere Khan's question to Akela: "What have
meeoow meow meeow meow Meeow Meow'm meooooow me Meeow: "Meow meow

the Free People to do with a man's cub?"  Now, the Law of the
mew Meow Meooow me me meow m mew'm mew?"  Mew, mew Mew me mew

Jungle lays down that if there is any dispute as to the right of a
Meeoow meow meow meow me meoow me mew meeooow me me mew meoow me m

cub to be accepted by the Pack, he must be spoken for by at least
mew me me meeeooow me mew Meow, me meow me meeeow mew me me meeow

two members of the Pack who are not his father and mother.
mew meoooow me mew Meow mew mew mew mew meeoow mew meeeow.




"Who speaks for this cub?" said Akela.  "Among the Free People
"Mew meooow mew meow mew?" meow Meoow.  "Meoow mew Meow Meeoow

who speaks?"  There was no answer and Mother Wolf got ready for
mew meooow?"  Meoow mew me meeoow mew Meooow Meow mew meoow mew

what she knew would be her last fight, if things came to fighting.
meow mew meow meoow me mew meow meoow, me meeeow meow me meooooow.




Then the only other creature who is allowed at the Pack
Meow mew meow meoow meeeeeow mew me meeeeow me mew Meow

Council--Baloo, the sleepy brown bear who teaches the wolf cubs
Meeeeow--Meeow, mew meeoow meoow meow mew meeeoow mew meow meow

the Law of the Jungle: old Baloo, who can come and go where he
mew Mew me mew Meooow: mew Meeow, mew mew meow mew me meoow me

pleases because he eats only nuts and roots and honey--rose upon
meeeeow meeeeow me meow meow meow mew meoow mew meoow--meow meow

his hind quarters and grunted.
mew meow meooooow mew meeeeow.




"The man's cub--the man's cub?" he said.  "I speak for the
"Mew mew'm mew--mew mew'm mew?" me meow.  "M meoow mew mew

man's cub.  There is no harm in a man's cub.  I have no gift of
mew'm mew.  Meeow me me meow me m mew'm mew.  M meow me meow me

words, but I speak the truth.  Let him run with the Pack, and be
meoow, mew M meeow mew meoow.  Mew mew mew meow mew Meow, mew me

entered with the others.  I myself will teach him."
meoooow meow mew meeeow.  M meooow meow meeow mew."




"We need yet another," said Akela.  "Baloo has spoken, and he
"Me meow mew meeooow," meow Meoow.  "Meoow mew meeeow, mew me

is our teacher for the young cubs.  Who speaks besides Baloo?"
me mew meeeeow mew mew meeow meow.  Mew meeoow meoooow Meoow?"




A black shadow dropped down into the circle.  It was Bagheera
M meeow meooow meeooow meow meow mew meooow.  Me mew Meeeeeow

the Black Panther, inky black all over, but with the panther
mew Meoow Meeeeow, meow meoow mew meow, mew meow mew meoooow

markings showing up in certain lights like the pattern of watered
meeeeeow meeeoow me me meeeoow meooow meow mew meoooow me meeeeow

silk.  Everybody knew Bagheera, and nobody cared to cross his
meow.  Meoooooow meow Meeeeoow, mew meooow meeow me meeow mew

path; for he was as cunning as Tabaqui, as bold as the wild
meow; mew me mew me meeeoow me Meoooow, me meow me mew meow

buffalo, and as reckless as the wounded elephant.  But he had a
meoooow, mew me meeeeeow me mew meeeoow meeeooow.  Mew me mew m

voice as soft as wild honey dripping from a tree, and a skin
meoow me meow me meow meoow meeoooow meow m meow, mew m meow

softer than down.
meeoow meow meow.




"O Akela, and ye the Free People," he purred, "I have no right
"M Meoow, mew me mew Meow Meeoow," me meooow, "M meow me meoow

in your assembly, but the Law of the Jungle says that if there is
me meow meooooow, mew mew Mew me mew Meeeow meow meow me meeow me

a doubt which is not a killing matter in regard to a new cub, the
m meeow meoow me mew m meeeoow meeoow me meeeow me m mew mew, mew

life of that cub may be bought at a price.  And the Law does not
meow me meow mew mew me meooow me m meoow.  Mew mew Mew meow mew

say who may or may not pay that price.  Am I right?"
mew mew mew me mew mew mew meow meoow.  Me M meoow?"




"Good!  Good!" said the young wolves, who are always hungry.
"Meow!  Meow!" meow mew meoow meooow, mew mew meooow meeoow.

"Listen to Bagheera.  The cub can be bought for a price.  It is
"Meeeow me Meeoooow.  Mew mew mew me meeeow mew m meeow.  Me me

the Law."
mew Mew."




"Knowing that I have no right to speak here, I ask your
"Meoooow meow M meow me meeow me meoow meow, M mew meow

leave."
meoow."




"Speak then," cried twenty voices.
"Meoow meow," meeow meeeow meeeow.




"To kill a naked cub is shame.  Besides, he may make better
"Me meow m meoow mew me meoow.  Meeeeow, me mew meow meeoow

sport for you when he is grown.  Baloo has spoken in his behalf.
meoow mew mew meow me me meoow.  Meoow mew meooow me mew meeoow.

Now to Baloo's word I will add one bull, and a fat one, newly
Mew me Meeow'm meow M meow mew mew meow, mew m mew mew, meoow

killed, not half a mile from here, if ye will accept the man's cub
meeeow, mew meow m meow meow meow, me me meow meeoow mew mew'm mew

according to the Law.  Is it difficult?"
meeeeeoow me mew Mew.  Me me meeeeeoow?"




There was a clamor of scores of voices, saying: "What matter?
Meeow mew m meooow me meeoow me meeoow, meeeow: "Meow meeoow?

He will die in the winter rains.  He will scorch in the sun.  What
Me meow mew me mew meeoow meoow.  Me meow meooow me mew mew.  Meow

harm can a naked frog do us?  Let him run with the Pack.  Where is
meow mew m meeow meow me me?  Mew mew mew meow mew Meow.  Meoow me

the bull, Bagheera?  Let him be accepted."  And then came Akela's
mew meow, Meooooow?  Mew mew me meeeooow."  Mew meow meow Meoow'm

deep bay, crying: "Look well--look well, O Wolves!"
meow mew, meeeow: "Meow meow--meow meow, M Meeoow!"




Mowgli was still deeply interested in the pebbles, and he did
Meooow mew meeow meooow meeeeeeeow me mew meeeeow, mew me mew

not notice when the wolves came and looked at him one by one.  At
mew meeoow meow mew meeeow meow mew meeoow me mew mew me mew.  Me

last they all went down the hill for the dead bull, and only
meow meow mew meow meow mew meow mew mew meow meow, mew meow

Akela, Bagheera, Baloo, and Mowgli's own wolves were left.  Shere
Meeow, Meeeooow, Meeow, mew Meeoow'm mew meooow meow meow.  Meoow

Khan roared still in the night, for he was very angry that Mowgli
Meow meeoow meeow me mew meoow, mew me mew meow meoow meow Meooow

had not been handed over to him.
mew mew meow meeoow meow me mew.




"Ay, roar well," said Bagheera, under his whiskers, "for the
"Me, meow meow," meow Meooooow, meoow mew meeeooow, "mew mew

time will come when this naked thing will make thee roar to
meow meow meow meow meow meeow meeow meow meow meow meow me

another tune, or I know nothing of man."
meeeoow meow, me M meow meeooow me mew."




"It was well done," said Akela.  "Men and their cubs are very
"Me mew meow meow," meow Meeow.  "Mew mew meoow meow mew meow

wise.  He may be a help in time."
meow.  Me mew me m meow me meow."




"Truly, a help in time of need; for none can hope to lead the
"Meeow, m meow me meow me meow; mew meow mew meow me meow mew

Pack forever," said Bagheera.
Meow meoooow," meow Meeeeeow.




Akela said nothing.  He was thinking of the time that comes to
Meeow meow meoooow.  Me mew meeoooow me mew meow meow meoow me

every leader of every pack when his strength goes from him and he
meoow meooow me meoow meow meow mew meeeeeow meow meow mew mew me

gets feebler and feebler, till at last he is killed by the wolves
meow meeeoow mew meeeeow, meow me meow me me meooow me mew meeeow

and a new leader comes up--to be killed in his turn.
mew m mew meooow meoow me--me me meeoow me mew meow.




"Take him away," he said to Father Wolf, "and train him as
"Meow mew meow," me meow me Meeeow Meow, "mew meoow mew me

befits one of the Free People."
meeeow mew me mew Meow Meooow."




And that is how Mowgli was entered into the Seeonee Wolf Pack
Mew meow me mew Meooow mew meeeoow meow mew Meeeoow Meow Meow

for the price of a bull and on Baloo's good word.
mew mew meeow me m meow mew me Meeow'm meow meow.







Now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole years, and
Mew mew meow me meeooow me meow mew me meeeow meeow meoow, mew

only guess at all the wonderful life that Mowgli led among the
meow meeow me mew mew meeooooow meow meow Meooow mew meoow mew

wolves, because if it were written out it would fill ever so many
meeoow, meoooow me me meow meeeeow mew me meeow meow meow me meow

books.  He grew up with the cubs, though they, of course, were
meeow.  Me meow me meow mew meow, meooow meow, me meeeow, meow

grown wolves almost before he was a child.  And Father Wolf taught
meoow meeoow meooow meeeow me mew m meoow.  Mew Meeoow Meow meeoow

him his business, and the meaning of things in the jungle, till
mew mew meooooow, mew mew meeooow me meeoow me mew meooow, meow

every rustle in the grass, every breath of the warm night air,
meoow meeeow me mew meeow, meeow meeeow me mew meow meeow mew,

every note of the owls above his head, every scratch of a bat's
meoow meow me mew meow meoow mew meow, meoow meeooow me m mew'm

claws as it roosted for a while in a tree, and every splash of
meeow me me meeeoow mew m meeow me m meow, mew meeow meeeow me

every little fish jumping in a pool meant just as much to him as
meoow meooow meow meoooow me m meow meoow meow me meow me mew me

the work of his office means to a business man.  When he was not
mew meow me mew meeeow meeow me m meooooow mew.  Meow me mew mew

learning he sat out in the sun and slept, and ate and went to
meooooow me mew mew me mew mew mew meeow, mew mew mew meow me

sleep again.  When he felt dirty or hot he swam in the forest
meeow meoow.  Meow me meow meeow me mew me meow me mew meooow

pools; and when he wanted honey (Baloo told him that honey and
meeow; mew meow me meeeow meoow (Meoow meow mew meow meoow mew

nuts were just as pleasant to eat as raw meat) he climbed up for
meow meow meow me meeeeeow me mew me mew meow) me meoooow me mew

it, and that Bagheera showed him how to do.  Bagheera would lie
me, mew meow Meeeooow meooow mew mew me me.  Meooooow meeow mew

out on a branch and call, "Come along, Little Brother," and at
mew me m meeoow mew meow, "Meow meoow, Meeoow Meeooow," mew me

first Mowgli would cling like the sloth, but afterward he would
meoow Meeeow meeow meoow meow mew meeow, mew meeeeeoow me meoow

fling himself through the branches almost as boldly as the gray
meeow meeeoow meoooow mew meeeeoow meeoow me meooow me mew meow

ape.  He took his place at the Council Rock, too, when the Pack
mew.  Me meow mew meoow me mew Meeeeow Meow, mew, meow mew Meow

met, and there he discovered that if he stared hard at any wolf,
mew, mew meoow me meooooooow meow me me meeeow meow me mew meow,

the wolf would be forced to drop his eyes, and so he used to stare
mew meow meoow me meooow me meow mew meow, mew me me meow me meoow

for fun.  At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the
mew mew.  Me meoow meeow me meeow meow mew meow meeeow mew me mew

pads of his friends, for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and
meow me mew meeeeow, mew meooow meeoow meeoooow meow meeeow mew

burs in their coats.  He would go down the hillside into the
meow me meeow meeow.  Me meeow me meow mew meooooow meow mew

cultivated lands by night, and look very curiously at the
meeeooooow meoow me meoow, mew meow meow meeooooow me mew

villagers in their huts, but he had a mistrust of men because
meeeeeoow me meeow meow, mew me mew m meeoooow me mew meeeeow

Bagheera showed him a square box with a drop gate so cunningly
Meeeeoow meooow mew m meeoow mew meow m meow meow me meeooooow

hidden in the jungle that he nearly walked into it, and told him
meooow me mew meooow meow me meeeow meeeow meow me, mew meow mew

that it was a trap.  He loved better than anything else to go with
meow me mew m meow.  Me meeow meeeow meow meeeeoow meow me me meow

Bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest, to sleep all
Meeeooow meow mew meow meow meeow me mew meeoow, me meeow mew

through the drowsy day, and at night see how Bagheera did his
meeooow mew meeoow mew, mew me meoow mew mew Meooooow mew mew

killing.  Bagheera killed right and left as he felt hungry, and so
meeooow.  Meeeeeow meooow meeow mew meow me me meow meooow, mew me

did Mowgli--with one exception.  As soon as he was old enough to
mew Meeeow--meow mew meeeeeoow.  Me meow me me mew mew meooow me

understand things, Bagheera told him that he must never touch
meeeeeeeow meeeow, Meeoooow meow mew meow me meow meoow meeow

cattle because he had been bought into the Pack at the price of a
meooow meeeoow me mew meow meooow meow mew Meow me mew meoow me m

bull's life.  "All the jungle is thine," said Bagheera, "and thou
meow'm meow.  "Mew mew meeoow me meoow," meow Meeeeeow, "mew meow

canst kill everything that thou art strong enough to kill; but for
meeow meow meeeeeooow meow meow mew meooow meeeow me meow; mew mew

the sake of the bull that bought thee thou must never kill or eat
mew meow me mew meow meow meeoow meow meow meow meoow meow me mew

any cattle young or old.  That is the Law of the Jungle."  Mowgli
mew meeoow meeow me mew.  Meow me mew Mew me mew Meeoow."  Meeeow

obeyed faithfully.
meeeow meeoooooow.




And he grew and grew strong as a boy must grow who does not
Mew me meow mew meow meeeow me m mew meow meow mew meow mew

know that he is learning any lessons, and who has nothing in the
meow meow me me meeeeeow mew meeeeow, mew mew mew meeooow me mew

world to think of except things to eat.
meeow me meeow me meooow meeeow me mew.




Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere Khan was not a
Meeeow Meow meow mew meow me meeow meow Meoow Meow mew mew m

creature to be trusted, and that some day he must kill Shere Khan.
meeoooow me me meeooow, mew meow meow mew me meow meow Meeow Meow.

But though a young wolf would have remembered that advice every
Mew meeeow m meoow meow meoow meow meeeooooow meow meeoow meoow

hour, Mowgli forgot it because he was only a boy--though he
meow, Meeeow meooow me meeeoow me mew meow m mew--meeoow me

would have called himself a wolf if he had been able to speak in
meoow meow meooow meeooow m meow me me mew meow meow me meoow me

any human tongue.
mew meoow meeeow.




Shere Khan was always crossing his path in the jungle, for as
Meeow Meow mew meeoow meeeeeow mew meow me mew meeeow, mew me

Akela grew older and feebler the lame tiger had come to be great
Meoow meow meoow mew meeeoow mew meow meoow mew meow me me meeow

friends with the younger wolves of the Pack, who followed him for
meeeeow meow mew meoooow meeeow me mew Meow, mew meeeeeow mew mew

scraps, a thing Akela would never have allowed if he had dared to
meeoow, m meeow Meeow meeow meeow meow meoooow me me mew meoow me

push his authority to the proper bounds.  Then Shere Khan would
meow mew meeeoooow me mew meeoow meeeow.  Meow Meoow Meow meoow

flatter them and wonder that such fine young hunters were content
meoooow meow mew meeoow meow meow meow meeow meeooow meow meeeeow

to be led by a dying wolf and a man's cub.  "They tell me," Shere
me me mew me m meoow meow mew m mew'm mew.  "Meow meow me," Meoow

Khan would say, "that at Council ye dare not look him between the
Meow meoow mew, "meow me Meoooow me meow mew meow mew meeeoow mew

eyes."  And the young wolves would growl and bristle.
meow."  Mew mew meoow meeoow meoow meoow mew meeooow.




Bagheera, who had eyes and ears everywhere, knew something of
Meeoooow, mew mew meow mew meow meeeeoooow, meow meeeeeoow me

this, and once or twice he told Mowgli in so many words that Shere
meow, mew meow me meeow me meow Meeeow me me meow meoow meow Meeow

Khan would kill him some day.  Mowgli would laugh and answer: "I
Meow meeow meow mew meow mew.  Meeoow meeow meeow mew meooow: "M

have the Pack and I have thee; and Baloo, though he is so lazy,
meow mew Meow mew M meow meow; mew Meeow, meeoow me me me meow,

might strike a blow or two for my sake.  Why should I be afraid?"
meeow meooow m meow me mew mew me meow.  Mew meeoow M me meeeow?"




It was one very warm day that a new notion came to Bagheera--
Me mew mew meow meow mew meow m mew meeoow meow me Meeeeeow--

born of something that he had heard.  Perhaps Ikki the Porcupine
meow me meoooooow meow me mew meeow.  Meeooow Meow mew Meeeeeeow

had told him; but he said to Mowgli when they were deep in the
mew meow mew; mew me meow me Meeoow meow meow meow meow me mew

jungle, as the boy lay with his head on Bagheera's beautiful black
meeoow, me mew mew mew meow mew meow me Meooooow'm meoooooow meeow

skin, "Little Brother, how often have I told thee that Shere Khan
meow, "Meeoow Meeeeow, mew meoow meow M meow meow meow Meeow Meow

is thy enemy?"
me mew meoow?"




"As many times as there are nuts on that palm," said Mowgli,
"Me meow meoow me meeow mew meow me meow meow," meow Meeoow,

who, naturally, could not count.  "What of it?  I am sleepy,
mew, meeooooow, meeow mew meoow.  "Meow me me?  M me meeeow,

Bagheera, and Shere Khan is all long tail and loud talk--like
Meeeooow, mew Meoow Meow me mew meow meow mew meow meow--meow

Mao, the Peacock."
Mew, mew Meeooow."




"But this is no time for sleeping.  Baloo knows it; I know it;
"Mew meow me me meow mew meooooow.  Meoow meeow me; M meow me;

the Pack know it; and even the foolish, foolish deer know.
mew Meow meow me; mew meow mew meeooow, meeeoow meow meow.

Tabaqui has told thee too."
Meeooow mew meow meow mew."




"Ho! ho!" said Mowgli.  "Tabaqui came to me not long ago with
"Me! me!" meow Meeoow.  "Meeeeow meow me me mew meow mew meow

some rude talk that I was a naked man's cub and not fit to dig
meow meow meow meow M mew m meeow mew'm mew mew mew mew me mew

pig-nuts.  But I caught Tabaqui by the tail and swung him twice
mew-meow.  Mew M meeoow Meeeeow me mew meow mew meoow mew meeow

against a palm-tree to teach him better manners."
meeooow m meow-meow me meoow mew meooow meeeoow."




"That was foolishness, for though Tabaqui is a mischief-maker,
"Meow mew meoooooooow, mew meeoow Meoooow me m meeeooow-meoow,

he would have told thee of something that concerned thee closely.
me meoow meow meow meow me meoooooow meow meeeoooow meow meeeoow.

Open those eyes, Little Brother.  Shere Khan dare not kill thee in
Meow meoow meow, Meeoow Meoooow.  Meeow Meow meow mew meow meow me

the jungle.  But remember, Akela is very old, and soon the day
mew meooow.  Mew meooooow, Meeow me meow mew, mew meow mew mew

comes when he cannot kill his buck, and then he will be leader no
meoow meow me meooow meow mew meow, mew meow me meow me meeoow me

more.  Many of the wolves that looked thee over when thou wast
meow.  Meow me mew meooow meow meeeow meow meow meow meow meow

brought to the Council first are old too, and the young wolves
meeeoow me mew Meeooow meoow mew mew mew, mew mew meeow meeoow

believe, as Shere Khan has taught them, that a man-cub has no
meeooow, me Meeow Meow mew meooow meow, meow m mew-mew mew me

place with the Pack.  In a little time thou wilt be a man."
meoow meow mew Meow.  Me m meooow meow meow meow me m mew."




"And what is a man that he should not run with his brothers?"
"Mew meow me m mew meow me meeoow mew mew meow mew meeeooow?"

said Mowgli.  "I was born in the jungle.  I have obeyed the Law of
meow Meeeow.  "M mew meow me mew meeoow.  M meow meeeow mew Mew me

the Jungle, and there is no wolf of ours from whose paws I have
mew Meooow, mew meoow me me meow me meow meow meoow meow M meow

not pulled a thorn.  Surely they are my brothers!"
mew meeoow m meeow.  Meeeow meow mew me meeeeeow!"




Bagheera stretched himself at full length and half shut his
Meeoooow meeeeeeow meeeeow me meow meeeow mew meow meow mew

eyes.  "Little Brother," said he, "feel under my jaw."
meow.  "Meeeow Meeeeow," meow me, "meow meeow me mew."




Mowgli put up his strong brown hand, and just under Bagheera's
Meeeow mew me mew meeoow meoow meow, mew meow meoow Meeeooow'm

silky chin, where the giant rolling muscles were all hid by the
meeow meow, meeow mew meoow meeeeow meoooow meow mew mew me mew

glossy hair, he came upon a little bald spot.
meeeow meow, me meow meow m meooow meow meow.




"There is no one in the jungle that knows that I, Bagheera,
"Meoow me me mew me mew meeeow meow meeow meow M, Meeeooow,

carry that mark--the mark of the collar; and yet, Little
meeow meow meow--mew meow me mew meeeow; mew mew, Meeoow

Brother, I was born among men, and it was among men that my mother
Meoooow, M mew meow meoow mew, mew me mew meoow mew meow me meeoow

died--in the cages of the king's palace at Oodeypore.  It was
meow--me mew meeow me mew meow'm meeeow me Meeeoooow.  Me mew

because of this that I paid the price for thee at the Council when
meeooow me meow meow M meow mew meoow mew meow me mew Meeooow meow

thou wast a little naked cub.  Yes, I too was born among men.  I
meow meow m meeoow meeow mew.  Mew, M mew mew meow meoow mew.  M

had never seen the jungle.  They fed me behind bars from an iron
mew meoow meow mew meooow.  Meow mew me meeeow meow meow me meow

pan till one night I felt that I was Bagheera--the Panther--
mew meow mew meeow M meow meow M mew Meeoooow--mew Meoooow--

and no man's plaything, and I broke the silly lock with one blow
mew me mew'm meeeeeoow, mew M meoow mew meeow meow meow mew meow

of my paw and came away.  And because I had learned the ways of
me me mew mew meow meow.  Mew meeeoow M mew meeooow mew meow me

men, I became more terrible in the jungle than Shere Khan.  Is it
mew, M meeoow meow meeoooow me mew meeeow meow Meeow Meow.  Me me

not so?"
mew me?"




"Yes," said Mowgli, "all the jungle fear Bagheera--all
"Mew," meow Meooow, "mew mew meeeow meow Meeeeeow--mew

except Mowgli."
meeeow Meeoow."




"Oh, thou art a man's cub," said the Black Panther very
"Me, meow mew m mew'm mew," meow mew Meoow Meeooow meow

tenderly.  "And even as I returned to my jungle, so thou must go
meeeeoow.  "Mew meow me M meeoooow me me meooow, me meow meow me

back to men at last--to the men who are thy brothers--if thou
meow me mew me meow--me mew mew mew mew mew meeeeeow--me meow

art not killed in the Council."
mew mew meeeow me mew Meeooow."




"But why--but why should any wish to kill me?" said Mowgli.
"Mew mew--mew mew meeoow mew meow me meow me?" meow Meeoow.




"Look at me," said Bagheera.  And Mowgli looked at him
"Meow me me," meow Meooooow.  Mew Meeoow meooow me mew

steadily between the eyes.  The big panther turned his head away
meeeooow meeooow mew meow.  Mew mew meeeoow meeeow mew meow meow

in half a minute.
me meow m meeeow.




"That is why," he said, shifting his paw on the leaves.  "Not
"Meow me mew," me meow, meeeeoow mew mew me mew meooow.  "Mew

even I can look thee between the eyes, and I was born among men,
meow M mew meow meow meeooow mew meow, mew M mew meow meeow mew,

and I love thee, Little Brother.  The others they hate thee
mew M meow meow, Meeeow Meoooow.  Mew meeoow meow meow meow

because their eyes cannot meet thine; because thou art wise;
meeeoow meeow meow meeeow meow meeow; meeeoow meow mew meow;

because thou hast pulled out thorns from their feet--because
meoooow meow meow meeeow mew meooow meow meeow meow--meeeeow

thou art a man."
meow mew m mew."




"I did not know these things," said Mowgli sullenly, and he
"M mew mew meow meeow meeoow," meow Meeoow meeeeoow, mew me

frowned under his heavy black eyebrows.
meoooow meoow mew meeow meoow meooooow.




"What is the Law of the Jungle?  Strike first and then give
"Meow me mew Mew me mew Meeoow?  Meooow meoow mew meow meow

tongue.  By thy very carelessness they know that thou art a man.
meeeow.  Me mew meow meeeooooooow meow meow meow meow mew m mew.

But be wise.  It is in my heart that when Akela misses his next
Mew me meow.  Me me me me meoow meow meow Meoow meeoow mew meow

kill--and at each hunt it costs him more to pin the buck--the
meow--mew me meow meow me meeow mew meow me mew mew meow--mew

Pack will turn against him and against thee.  They will hold a
Meow meow meow meeeeow mew mew meeeeow meow.  Meow meow meow m

jungle Council at the Rock, and then--and then--I have it!"
meeeow Meeeeow me mew Meow, mew meow--mew meow--M meow me!"

said Bagheera, leaping up.  "Go thou down quickly to the men's
meow Meeoooow, meeeoow me.  "Me meow meow meeooow me mew mew'm

huts in the valley, and take some of the Red Flower which they
meow me mew meeoow, mew meow meow me mew Mew Meeeow meoow meow

grow there, so that when the time comes thou mayest have even a
meow meeow, me meow meow mew meow meoow meow meeoow meow meow m

stronger friend than I or Baloo or those of the Pack that love
meooooow meooow meow M me Meeow me meoow me mew Meow meow meow

thee.  Get the Red Flower."
meow.  Mew mew Mew Meeeow."




By Red Flower Bagheera meant fire, only no creature in the
Me Mew Meooow Meeoooow meeow meow, meow me meeeeeow me mew

jungle will call fire by its proper name.  Every beast lives in
meooow meow meow meow me mew meeeow meow.  Meoow meoow meeow me

deadly fear of it, and invents a hundred ways of describing it.
meooow meow me me, mew meeeeow m meoooow meow me meeoooooow me.




"The Red Flower?" said Mowgli.  "That grows outside their huts
"Mew Mew Meeeow?" meow Meeoow.  "Meow meeow meeooow meoow meow

in the twilight.  I will get some."
me mew meeeooow.  M meow mew meow."




"There speaks the man's cub," said Bagheera proudly.
"Meeow meeoow mew mew'm mew," meow Meooooow meoooow.

"Remember that it grows in little pots.  Get one swiftly, and keep
"Meeeeoow meow me meoow me meeoow meow.  Mew mew meeeoow, mew meow

it by thee for time of need."
me me meow mew meow me meow."




"Good!" said Mowgli.  "I go.  But art thou sure, O my
"Meow!" meow Meeeow.  "M me.  Mew mew meow meow, M me

Bagheera"--he slipped his arm around the splendid neck and
Meooooow"--me meoooow mew mew meooow mew meeoooow meow mew

looked deep into the big eyes--"art thou sure that all this is
meeoow meow meow mew mew meow--"mew meow meow meow mew meow me

Shere Khan's doing?"
Meoow Meow'm meoow?"




"By the Broken Lock that freed me, I am sure, Little Brother."
"Me mew Meeeow Meow meow meeow me, M me meow, Meeeow Meoooow."




"Then, by the Bull that bought me, I will pay Shere Khan full
"Meow, me mew Meow meow meeeow me, M meow mew Meoow Meow meow

tale for this, and it may be a little over," said Mowgli, and he
meow mew meow, mew me mew me m meooow meow," meow Meeoow, mew me

bounded away.
meoooow meow.




"That is a man.  That is all a man," said Bagheera to himself,
"Meow me m mew.  Meow me mew m mew," meow Meooooow me meeooow,

lying down again.  "Oh, Shere Khan, never was a blacker hunting
meoow meow meoow.  "Me, Meeow Meow, meoow mew m meeeeow meeooow

than that frog-hunt of thine ten years ago!"
meow meow meow-meow me meoow mew meeow mew!"




Mowgli was far and far through the forest, running hard, and
Meeeow mew mew mew mew meoooow mew meeeow, meoooow meow, mew

his heart was hot in him.  He came to the cave as the evening mist
mew meoow mew mew me mew.  Me meow me mew meow me mew meeooow meow

rose, and drew breath, and looked down the valley.  The cubs were
meow, mew meow meooow, mew meeeow meow mew meooow.  Mew meow meow

out, but Mother Wolf, at the back of the cave, knew by his
mew, mew Meooow Meow, me mew meow me mew meow, meow me mew

breathing that something was troubling her frog.
meoooooow meow meeeoooow mew meeeeeoow mew meow.




"What is it, Son?" she said.
"Meow me me, Mew?" mew meow.




"Some bat's chatter of Shere Khan," he called back.  "I hunt
"Meow mew'm meeeeow me Meoow Meow," me meeeow meow.  "M meow

among the plowed fields tonight," and he plunged downward through
meoow mew meeoow meeoow meeeeow," mew me meeooow meooooow meeeeow

the bushes, to the stream at the bottom of the valley.  There he
mew meeeow, me mew meooow me mew meeeow me mew meeoow.  Meeow me

checked, for he heard the yell of the Pack hunting, heard the
meoooow, mew me meeow mew meow me mew Meow meeooow, meoow mew

bellow of a hunted Sambhur, and the snort as the buck turned at
meeoow me m meeeow Meeooow, mew mew meoow me mew meow meooow me

bay.  Then there were wicked, bitter howls from the young wolves:
mew.  Meow meoow meow meeoow, meeoow meoow meow mew meoow meeeow:

"Akela!  Akela!  Let the Lone Wolf show his strength.  Room for
"Meeow!  Meoow!  Mew mew Meow Meow meow mew meeeooow.  Meow mew

the leader of the Pack!  Spring, Akela!"
mew meooow me mew Meow!  Meeoow, Meoow!"




The Lone Wolf must have sprung and missed his hold, for Mowgli
Mew Meow Meow meow meow meooow mew meeeow mew meow, mew Meeoow

heard the snap of his teeth and then a yelp as the Sambhur knocked
meoow mew meow me mew meoow mew meow m meow me mew Meoooow meeooow

him over with his forefoot.
mew meow meow mew meeeeoow.




He did not wait for anything more, but dashed on; and the
Me mew mew meow mew meooooow meow, mew meeoow me; mew mew

yells grew fainter behind him as he ran into the croplands where
meeow meow meoooow meooow mew me me mew meow mew meeeoooow meeow

the villagers lived.
mew meeeeeoow meoow.




"Bagheera spoke truth," he panted, as he nestled down in some
"Meeoooow meeow meeow," me meooow, me me meeeeow meow me meow

cattle fodder by the window of a hut.  "To-morrow is one day both
meeoow meooow me mew meeoow me m mew.  "Me-meeeow me mew mew meow

for Akela and for me."
mew Meeow mew mew me."




Then he pressed his face close to the window and watched the
Meow me meeeeow mew meow meeow me mew meeoow mew meeooow mew

fire on the hearth.  He saw the husbandman's wife get up and feed
meow me mew meeoow.  Me mew mew meeeooooow'm meow mew me mew meow

it in the night with black lumps.  And when the morning came and
me me mew meoow meow meoow meoow.  Mew meow mew meoooow meow mew

the mists were all white and cold, he saw the man's child pick up
mew meeow meow mew meeow mew meow, me mew mew mew'm meeow meow me

a wicker pot plastered inside with earth, fill it with lumps of
m meooow mew meeeeooow meeoow meow meoow, meow me meow meeow me

red-hot charcoal, put it under his blanket, and go out to tend the
mew-mew meeeeoow, mew me meeow mew meeeeow, mew me mew me meow mew

cows in the byre.
meow me mew meow.




"Is that all?" said Mowgli.  "If a cub can do it, there is
"Me meow mew?" meow Meeoow.  "Me m mew mew me me, meeow me

nothing to fear."  So he strode round the corner and met the boy,
meeeoow me meow."  Me me meooow meeow mew meeoow mew mew mew mew,

took the pot from his hand, and disappeared into the mist while
meow mew mew meow mew meow, mew meeeeeoooow meow mew meow meeow

the boy howled with fear.
mew mew meeeow meow meow.




"They are very like me," said Mowgli, blowing into the pot as
"Meow mew meow meow me," meow Meooow, meeeoow meow mew mew me

he had seen the woman do.  "This thing will die if I do not give
me mew meow mew meeow me.  "Meow meoow meow mew me M me mew meow

it things to eat"; and he dropped twigs and dried bark on the red
me meeeow me mew"; mew me meeeoow meoow mew meeow meow me mew mew

stuff.  Halfway up the hill he met Bagheera with the morning dew
meeow.  Meeooow me mew meow me mew Meeoooow meow mew meoooow mew

shining like moonstones on his coat.
meeooow meow meooooooow me mew meow.




"Akela has missed," said the Panther.  "They would have killed
"Meeow mew meeoow," meow mew Meeeeow.  "Meow meoow meow meeoow

him last night, but they needed thee also.  They were looking for
mew meow meoow, mew meow meooow meow meow.  Meow meow meeeoow mew

thee on the hill."
meow me mew meow."




"I was among the plowed lands.  I am ready.  See!"  Mowgli
"M mew meeow mew meeeow meoow.  M me meoow.  Mew!"  Meeoow

held up the fire-pot.
meow me mew meow-mew.




"Good!  Now, I have seen men thrust a dry branch into that
"Meow!  Mew, M meow meow mew meeoow m mew meeeow meow meow

stuff, and presently the Red Flower blossomed at the end of it.
meoow, mew meoooooow mew Mew Meeoow meeeeooow me mew mew me me.

Art thou not afraid?"
Mew meow mew meooow?"




"No.  Why should I fear?  I remember now--if it is not a
"Me.  Mew meeeow M meow?  M meeeeoow mew--me me me mew m

dream--how, before I was a Wolf, I lay beside the Red Flower,
meeow--mew, meeoow M mew m Meow, M mew meooow mew Mew Meooow,

and it was warm and pleasant."
mew me mew meow mew meeeeeow."




All that day Mowgli sat in the cave tending his fire pot and
Mew meow mew Meeeow mew me mew meow meeeoow mew meow mew mew

dipping dry branches into it to see how they looked.  He found a
meeooow mew meeoooow meow me me mew mew meow meooow.  Me meoow m

branch that satisfied him, and in the evening when Tabaqui came to
meeeow meow meeeeooow mew, mew me mew meoooow meow Meeooow meow me

the cave and told him rudely enough that he was wanted at the
mew meow mew meow mew meeoow meeeow meow me mew meeeow me mew

Council Rock, he laughed till Tabaqui ran away.  Then Mowgli went
Meoooow Meow, me meeeeow meow Meeooow mew meow.  Meow Meooow meow

to the Council, still laughing.
me mew Meeeoow, meoow meeeooow.




Akela the Lone Wolf lay by the side of his rock as a sign that
Meeow mew Meow Meow mew me mew meow me mew meow me m meow meow

the leadership of the Pack was open, and Shere Khan with his
mew meeeeoooow me mew Meow mew meow, mew Meeow Meow meow mew

following of scrap-fed wolves walked to and fro openly being
meoooooow me meeow-mew meeeow meeoow me mew mew meeeow meeow

flattered.  Bagheera lay close to Mowgli, and the fire pot was
meoooooow.  Meeeooow mew meoow me Meeeow, mew mew meow mew mew

between Mowgli's knees.  When they were all gathered together,
meeeoow Meeeow'm meeow.  Meow meow meow mew meeeeeow meooooow,

Shere Khan began to speak--a thing he would never have dared to
Meeow Meow meeow me meoow--m meeow me meoow meeow meow meeow me

do when Akela was in his prime.
me meow Meoow mew me mew meoow.




"He has no right," whispered Bagheera.  "Say so.  He is a
"Me mew me meeow," meeeoooow Meooooow.  "Mew me.  Me me m

dog's son.  He will be frightened."
mew'm mew.  Me meow me meeeeoooow."




Mowgli sprang to his feet.  "Free People," he cried, "does
Meooow meeeow me mew meow.  "Meow Meeeow," me meeow, "meow

Shere Khan lead the Pack?  What has a tiger to do with our
Meoow Meow meow mew Meow?  Meow mew m meoow me me meow mew

leadership?"
meeeeeooow?"




"Seeing that the leadership is yet open, and being asked to
"Meooow meow mew meeeeeeeow me mew meow, mew meoow meeow me

speak--" Shere Khan began.
meoow--" Meeow Meow meoow.




"By whom?" said Mowgli.  "Are we all jackals, to fawn on this
"Me meow?" meow Meeoow.  "Mew me mew meeeeow, me meow me meow

cattle butcher?  The leadership of the Pack is with the Pack
meeoow meoooow?  Mew meeeeeooow me mew Meow me meow mew Meow

alone."
meeow."




There were yells of "Silence, thou man's cub!"  "Let him
Meeow meow meoow me "Meeeeow, meow mew'm mew!"  "Mew mew

speak.  He has kept our Law"; and at last the seniors of the Pack
meoow.  Me mew meow mew Mew"; mew me meow mew meeeeow me mew Meow

thundered: "Let the Dead Wolf speak."  When a leader of the Pack
meeeeeeow: "Mew mew Meow Meow meoow."  Meow m meeoow me mew Meow

has missed his kill, he is called the Dead Wolf as long as he
mew meooow mew meow, me me meeoow mew Meow Meow me meow me me

lives, which is not long.
meeow, meeow me mew meow.




Akela raised his old head wearily:--
Meoow meooow mew mew meow meeeoow:--




"Free People, and ye too, jackals of Shere Khan, for twelve
"Meow Meeeow, mew me mew, meeeoow me Meeow Meow, mew meeeow

seasons I have led ye to and from the kill, and in all that time
meoooow M meow mew me me mew meow mew meow, mew me mew meow meow

not one has been trapped or maimed.  Now I have missed my kill.
mew mew mew meow meeeoow me meeoow.  Mew M meow meeoow me meow.

Ye know how that plot was made.  Ye know how ye brought me up to
Me meow mew meow meow mew meow.  Me meow mew me meoooow me me me

an untried buck to make my weakness known.  It was cleverly done.
me meeeoow meow me meow me meooooow meoow.  Me mew meooooow meow.

Your right is to kill me here on the Council Rock, now.
Meow meeow me me meow me meow me mew Meeooow Meow, mew.

Therefore, I ask, who comes to make an end of the Lone Wolf?  For
Meoooooow, M mew, mew meoow me meow me mew me mew Meow Meow?  Mew

it is my right, by the Law of the Jungle, that ye come one by
me me me meoow, me mew Mew me mew Meeeow, meow me meow mew me

one."
mew."




There was a long hush, for no single wolf cared to fight Akela
Meeow mew m meow meow, mew me meeoow meow meoow me meoow Meeow

to the death.  Then Shere Khan roared: "Bah!  What have we to do
me mew meeow.  Meow Meoow Meow meeeow: "Mew!  Meow meow me me me

with this toothless fool?  He is doomed to die!  It is the man-cub
meow meow meeooooow meow?  Me me meooow me mew!  Me me mew mew-mew

who has lived too long.  Free People, he was my meat from the
mew mew meeow mew meow.  Meow Meeeow, me mew me meow meow mew

first.  Give him to me.  I am weary of this man-wolf folly.  He
meeow.  Meow mew me me.  M me meoow me meow mew-meow meoow.  Me

has troubled the jungle for ten seasons.  Give me the man-cub, or
mew meeoooow mew meeoow mew mew meeeeow.  Meow me mew mew-mew, me

I will hunt here always, and not give you one bone.  He is a man,
M meow meow meow meeeow, mew mew meow mew mew meow.  Me me m mew,

a man's child, and from the marrow of my bones I hate him!"
m mew'm meoow, mew meow mew meeeow me me meeow M meow mew!"




Then more than half the Pack yelled: "A man!  A man!  What has
Meow meow meow meow mew Meow meooow: "M mew!  M mew!  Meow mew

a man to do with us?  Let him go to his own place."
m mew me me meow me?  Mew mew me me mew mew meoow."




"And turn all the people of the villages against us?" clamored
"Mew meow mew mew meeeow me mew meeeooow meoooow me?" meeoooow

Shere Khan.  "No, give him to me.  He is a man, and none of us can
Meeow Meow.  "Me, meow mew me me.  Me me m mew, mew meow me me mew

look him between the eyes."
meow mew meeeoow mew meow."




Akela lifted his head again and said, "He has eaten our food.
Meoow meeoow mew meow meeow mew meow, "Me mew meeow mew meow.

He has slept with us.  He has driven game for us.  He has broken
Me mew meeow meow me.  Me mew meeoow meow mew me.  Me mew meeoow

no word of the Law of the Jungle."
me meow me mew Mew me mew Meeeow."




"Also, I paid for him with a bull when he was accepted.  The
"Meow, M meow mew mew meow m meow meow me mew meeeeoow.  Mew

worth of a bull is little, but Bagheera's honor is something that
meeow me m meow me meooow, mew Meeeooow'm meoow me meeeeeoow meow

he will perhaps fight for," said Bagheera in his gentlest voice.
me meow meeooow meoow mew," meow Meeeooow me mew meooooow meoow.




"A bull paid ten years ago!" the Pack snarled.  "What do we
"M meow meow mew meeow mew!" mew Meow meeeoow.  "Meow me me

care for bones ten years old?"
meow mew meeow mew meeow mew?"




"Or for a pledge?" said Bagheera, his white teeth bared under
"Me mew m meooow?" meow Meeeeoow, mew meoow meoow meoow meeow

his lip.  "Well are ye called the Free People!"
mew mew.  "Meow mew me meeeow mew Meow Meeoow!"




"No man's cub can run with the people of the jungle," howled
"Me mew'm mew mew mew meow mew meeeow me mew meooow," meeoow

Shere Khan.  "Give him to me!"
Meoow Meow.  "Meow mew me me!"




"He is our brother in all but blood," Akela went on, "and ye
"Me me mew meeeoow me mew mew meeow," Meoow meow me, "mew me

would kill him here!  In truth, I have lived too long.  Some of ye
meeow meow mew meow!  Me meeow, M meow meeow mew meow.  Meow me me

are eaters of cattle, and of others I have heard that, under Shere
mew meeeow me meeeow, mew me meeeow M meow meoow meow, meeow Meeow

Khan's teaching, ye go by dark night and snatch children from the
Meow'm meooooow, me me me meow meeow mew meeoow meooooow meow mew

villager's doorstep.  Therefore I know ye to be cowards, and it is
meeeooow'm meeoooow.  Meeeoooow M meow me me me meoooow, mew me me

to cowards I speak.  It is certain that I must die, and my life is
me meeooow M meoow.  Me me meeooow meow M meow mew, mew me meow me

of no worth, or I would offer that in the man-cub's place.  But
me me meoow, me M meeow meoow meow me mew mew-mew'm meeow.  Mew

for the sake of the Honor of the Pack,--a little matter that by
mew mew meow me mew Meoow me mew Meow,--m meooow meooow meow me

being without a leader ye have forgotten,--I promise that if ye
meoow meeeoow m meooow me meow meeeoooow,--M meeooow meow me me

let the man-cub go to his own place, I will not, when my time
mew mew mew-mew me me mew mew meeow, M meow mew, meow me meow

comes to die, bare one tooth against ye.  I will die without
meeow me mew, meow mew meeow meoooow me.  M meow mew meeeoow

fighting.  That will at least save the Pack three lives.  More I
meooooow.  Meow meow me meoow meow mew Meow meeow meoow.  Meow M

cannot do; but if ye will, I can save ye the shame that comes of
meeeow me; mew me me meow, M mew meow me mew meoow meow meeow me

killing a brother against whom there is no fault--a brother
meeooow m meeeoow meeeeow meow meeow me me meeow--m meeeeow

spoken for and bought into the Pack according to the Law of the
meeoow mew mew meeeow meow mew Meow meeeeeoow me mew Mew me mew

Jungle."
Meeoow."




"He is a man--a man--a man!" snarled the Pack.  And most
"Me me m mew--m mew--m mew!" meeeoow mew Meow.  Mew meow

of the wolves began to gather round Shere Khan, whose tail was
me mew meooow meeow me meooow meeow Meeow Meow, meoow meow mew

beginning to switch.
meeeeeoow me meeeow.




"Now the business is in thy hands," said Bagheera to Mowgli.
"Mew mew meeeooow me me mew meeow," meow Meeeeeow me Meooow.

"We can do no more except fight."
"Me mew me me meow meeoow meeow."




Mowgli stood upright--the fire pot in his hands.  Then he
Meeoow meeow meoooow--mew meow mew me mew meoow.  Meow me

stretched out his arms, and yawned in the face of the Council; but
meeeeooow mew mew meow, mew meooow me mew meow me mew Meeooow; mew

he was furious with rage and sorrow, for, wolflike, the wolves had
me mew meeeeow meow meow mew meooow, mew, meooooow, mew meeeow mew

never told him how they hated him.  "Listen you!" he cried.
meeow meow mew mew meow meeow mew.  "Meooow mew!" me meeow.

"There is no need for this dog's jabber.  Ye have told me so often
"Meoow me me meow mew meow mew'm meeoow.  Me meow meow me me meoow

tonight that I am a man (and indeed I would have been a wolf with
meeooow meow M me m mew (mew meeeow M meeow meow meow m meow meow

you to my life's end) that I feel your words are true.  So I do
mew me me meow'm mew) meow M meow meow meeow mew meow.  Me M me

not call ye my brothers any more, but sag [dogs], as a man should.
mew meow me me meeeeeow mew meow, mew mew [meow], me m mew meooow.

What ye will do, and what ye will not do, is not yours to say.
Meow me meow me, mew meow me meow mew me, me mew meeow me mew.

That matter is with me; and that we may see the matter more
Meow meeoow me meow me; mew meow me mew mew mew meooow meow

plainly, I, the man, have brought here a little of the Red Flower
meoooow, M, mew mew, meow meeeeow meow m meeoow me mew Mew Meooow

which ye, dogs, fear."
meeow me, meow, meow."




He flung the fire pot on the ground, and some of the red coals
Me meeow mew meow mew me mew meeoow, mew meow me mew mew meeow

lit a tuft of dried moss that flared up, as all the Council drew
mew m meow me meeow meow meow meeeow me, me mew mew Meeooow meow

back in terror before the leaping flames.
meow me meeeow meeoow mew meeooow meeeow.




Mowgli thrust his dead branch into the fire till the twigs lit
Meeeow meeoow mew meow meeoow meow mew meow meow mew meeow mew

and crackled, and whirled it above his head among the cowering
mew meeeooow, mew meeeoow me meoow mew meow meoow mew meooooow

wolves.
meeeow.




"Thou art the master," said Bagheera in an undertone.  "Save
"Meow mew mew meeeow," meow Meooooow me me meeooooow.  "Meow

Akela from the death.  He was ever thy friend."
Meeow meow mew meeow.  Me mew meow mew meooow."




Akela, the grim old wolf who had never asked for mercy in his
Meoow, mew meow mew meow mew mew meoow meeow mew meeow me mew

life, gave one piteous look at Mowgli as the boy stood all naked,
meow, meow mew meeooow meow me Meeoow me mew mew meeow mew meeow,

his long black hair tossing over his shoulders in the light of the
mew meow meeow meow meoooow meow mew meeeeeeow me mew meeow me mew

blazing branch that made the shadows jump and quiver.
meeeoow meeeow meow meow mew meeeeow meow mew meooow.




"Good!" said Mowgli, staring round slowly.  "I see that ye are
"Meow!" meow Meeeow, meeeoow meoow meeoow.  "M mew meow me mew

dogs.  I go from you to my own people--if they be my own people.
meow.  M me meow mew me me mew meooow--me meow me me mew meeoow.

The jungle is shut to me, and I must forget your talk and your
Mew meeoow me meow me me, mew M meow meeoow meow meow mew meow

companionship.  But I will be more merciful than ye are.  Because
meoooooooooow.  Mew M meow me meow meeeeoow meow me mew.  Meeeeow

I was all but your brother in blood, I promise that when I am a
M mew mew mew meow meeeeow me meeow, M meeeoow meow meow M me m

man among men I will not betray ye to men as ye have betrayed me."
mew meoow mew M meow mew meeeow me me mew me me meow meeeeoow me."

He kicked the fire with his foot, and the sparks flew up.  "There
Me meooow mew meow meow mew meow, mew mew meeoow meow me.  "Meeow

shall be no war between any of us in the Pack.  But here is a debt
meoow me me mew meeooow mew me me me mew Meow.  Mew meow me m meow

to pay before I go."  He strode forward to where Shere Khan sat
me mew meooow M me."  Me meeeow meoooow me meeow Meoow Meow mew

blinking stupidly at the flames, and caught him by the tuft on his
meeoooow meeeeoow me mew meooow, mew meeeow mew me mew meow me mew

chin.  Bagheera followed in case of accidents.  "Up, dog!"  Mowgli
meow.  Meooooow meooooow me meow me meoooooow.  "Me, mew!"  Meooow

cried.  "Up, when a man speaks, or I will set that coat ablaze!"
meoow.  "Me, meow m mew meooow, me M meow mew meow meow meeeow!"




Shere Khan's ears lay flat back on his head, and he shut his
Meeow Meow'm meow mew meow meow me mew meow, mew me meow mew

eyes, for the blazing branch was very near.
meow, mew mew meeeoow meeeow mew meow meow.




"This cattle-killer said he would kill me in the Council
"Meow meooow-meeoow meow me meoow meow me me mew Meoooow

because he had not killed me when I was a cub.  Thus and thus,
meeeoow me mew mew meeeow me meow M mew m mew.  Meow mew meow,

then, do we beat dogs when we are men.  Stir a whisker, Lungri,
meow, me me meow meow meow me mew mew.  Meow m meeeoow, Meeeow,

and I ram the Red Flower down thy gullet!"  He beat Shere Khan
mew M mew mew Mew Meooow meow mew meeoow!"  Me meow Meoow Meow

over the head with the branch, and the tiger whimpered and whined
meow mew meow meow mew meeeow, mew mew meeow meeeeooow mew meeeow

in an agony of fear.
me me meeow me meow.




"Pah!  Singed jungle cat--go now!  But remember when next I
"Mew!  Meooow meeoow mew--me mew!  Mew meooooow meow meow M

come to the Council Rock, as a man should come, it will be with
meow me mew Meeeeow Meow, me m mew meooow meow, me meow me meow

Shere Khan's hide on my head.  For the rest, Akela goes free to
Meeow Meow'm meow me me meow.  Mew mew meow, Meeow meow meow me

live as he pleases.  Ye will not kill him, because that is not my
meow me me meoooow.  Me meow mew meow mew, meoooow meow me mew me

will.  Nor do I think that ye will sit here any longer, lolling
meow.  Mew me M meoow meow me meow mew meow mew meeeow, meeeeow

out your tongues as though ye were somebodies, instead of dogs
mew meow meeeoow me meooow me meow meeeeeooow, meoooow me meow

whom I drive out--thus!  Go!"  The fire was burning furiously at
meow M meoow mew--meow!  Me!"  Mew meow mew meeeoow meeooooow me

the end of the branch, and Mowgli struck right and left round the
mew mew me mew meooow, mew Meeeow meooow meeow mew meow meoow mew

circle, and the wolves ran howling with the sparks burning their
meeeow, mew mew meeeow mew meeeoow meow mew meeoow meeooow meoow

fur.  At last there were only Akela, Bagheera, and perhaps ten
mew.  Me meow meeow meow meow Meoow, Meooooow, mew meeooow mew

wolves that had taken Mowgli's part.  Then something began to hurt
meeoow meow mew meoow Meooow'm meow.  Meow meeeeeoow meoow me meow

Mowgli inside him, as he had never been hurt in his life before,
Meooow meeoow mew, me me mew meoow meow meow me mew meow meooow,

and he caught his breath and sobbed, and the tears ran down his
mew me meeoow mew meeeow mew meeoow, mew mew meoow mew meow mew

face.
meow.




"What is it?  What is it?" he said.  "I do not wish to leave
"Meow me me?  Meow me me?" me meow.  "M me mew meow me meoow

the jungle, and I do not know what this is.  Am I dying,
mew meeeow, mew M me mew meow meow meow me.  Me M meoow,

Bagheera?"
Meeeeoow?"




"No, Little Brother.  That is only tears such as men use,"
"Me, Meeeow Meoooow.  Meow me meow meoow meow me mew mew,"

said Bagheera.  "Now I know thou art a man, and a man's cub no
meow Meeeooow.  "Mew M meow meow mew m mew, mew m mew'm mew me

longer.  The jungle is shut indeed to thee henceforward.  Let them
meeoow.  Mew meooow me meow meeeow me meow meeeooooooow.  Mew meow

fall, Mowgli.  They are only tears."  So Mowgli sat and cried as
meow, Meooow.  Meow mew meow meeow."  Me Meeoow mew mew meeow me

though his heart would break; and he had never cried in all his
meooow mew meoow meeow meeow; mew me mew meoow meoow me mew mew

life before.
meow meeeow.




"Now," he said, "I will go to men.  But first I must say
"Mew," me meow, "M meow me me mew.  Mew meeow M meow mew

farewell to my mother."  And he went to the cave where she lived
meeeeeow me me meeoow."  Mew me meow me mew meow meoow mew meoow

with Father Wolf, and he cried on her coat, while the four cubs
meow Meeoow Meow, mew me meeow me mew meow, meeow mew meow meow

howled miserably.
meooow meeeeeoow.




"Ye will not forget me?" said Mowgli.
"Me meow mew meeoow me?" meow Meooow.




"Never while we can follow a trail," said the cubs.  "Come to
"Meeow meoow me mew meeeow m meeow," meow mew meow.  "Meow me

the foot of the hill when thou art a man, and we will talk to
mew meow me mew meow meow meow mew m mew, mew me meow meow me

thee; and we will come into the croplands to play with thee by
meow; mew me meow meow meow mew meoooooow me meow meow meow me

night."
meeow."




"Come soon!" said Father Wolf.  "Oh, wise little frog, come
"Meow meow!" meow Meeeow Meow.  "Me, meow meeeow meow, meow

again soon; for we be old, thy mother and I."
meeow meow; mew me me mew, mew meooow mew M."




"Come soon," said Mother Wolf, "little naked son of mine.
"Meow meow," meow Meooow Meow, "meeoow meeow mew me meow.

For, listen, child of man, I loved thee more than ever I loved my
Mew, meeeow, meeow me mew, M meoow meow meow meow meow M meoow me

cubs."
meow."




"I will surely come," said Mowgli.  "And when I come it will
"M meow meeeow meow," meow Meeeow.  "Mew meow M meow me meow

be to lay out Shere Khan's hide upon the Council Rock.  Do not
me me mew mew Meoow Meow'm meow meow mew Meeeoow Meow.  Me mew

forget me!  Tell them in the jungle never to forget me!"
meooow me!  Meow meow me mew meooow meoow me meeeow me!"




The dawn was beginning to break when Mowgli went down the
Mew meow mew meoooooow me meeow meow Meeoow meow meow mew

hillside alone, to meet those mysterious things that are called
meooooow meeow, me meow meeow meeeeoooow meooow meow mew meooow

men.
mew.







                 Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack
                 Meeeoow-Meow me mew Meeeeow Meow




       As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled
       Me mew meow mew meeeeoow mew Meeooow meeoow

           Once, twice and again!
           Meow, meeow mew meoow!

       And a doe leaped up, and a doe leaped up
       Mew m mew meeeow me, mew m mew meeoow me

       From the pond in the wood where the wild deer sup.
       Meow mew meow me mew meow meoow mew meow meow mew.

       This I, scouting alone, beheld,
       Meow M, meeoooow meeow, meeoow,

           Once, twice and again!
           Meow, meoow mew meeow!




       As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled
       Me mew meow mew meeeooow mew Meeeoow meeoow

           Once, twice and again!
           Meow, meoow mew meeow!

       And a wolf stole back, and a wolf stole back
       Mew m meow meoow meow, mew m meow meeow meow

       To carry the word to the waiting pack,
       Me meeow mew meow me mew meeeeow meow,

       And we sought and we found and we bayed on his track
       Mew me meooow mew me meoow mew me meoow me mew meoow

           Once, twice and again!
           Meow, meoow mew meoow!




       As the dawn was breaking the Wolf Pack yelled
       Me mew meow mew meooooow mew Meow Meow meeeow

           Once, twice and again!
           Meow, meoow mew meeow!

       Feet in the jungle that leave no mark!
       Meow me mew meeeow meow meoow me meow!




       Eyes that can see in the dark--the dark!
       Meow meow mew mew me mew meow--mew meow!

       Tongue--give tongue to it!  Hark!  O hark!
       Meooow--meow meooow me me!  Meow!  M meow!

           Once, twice and again!
           Meow, meeow mew meeow!







                           Kaa's Hunting
                           Mew'm Meeeoow




  His spots are the joy of the Leopard: his horns are the
  Mew meoow mew mew mew me mew Meoooow: mew meoow mew mew

     Buffalo's pride.
     Meoooow'm meoow.

  Be clean, for the strength of the hunter is known by the
  Me meeow, mew mew meeeooow me mew meeeow me meeow me mew

     gloss of his hide.
     meoow me mew meow.

  If ye find that the Bullock can toss you, or the heavy-browed
  Me me meow meow mew Meeeeow mew meow mew, me mew meoow-meooow

     Sambhur can gore;
     Meoooow mew meow;

  Ye need not stop work to inform us: we knew it ten seasons
  Me meow mew meow meow me meooow me: me meow me mew meeooow

     before.
     meeoow.

  Oppress not the cubs of the stranger, but hail them as Sister
  Meeooow mew mew meow me mew meeeooow, mew meow meow me Meeoow

     and Brother,
     mew Meoooow,

  For though they are little and fubsy, it may be the Bear is
  Mew meeeow meow mew meeeow mew meeow, me mew me mew Meow me

     their mother.
     meeow meeoow.

  "There is none like to me!" says the Cub in the pride of his
  "Meeow me meow meow me me!" meow mew Mew me mew meeow me mew

     earliest kill;
     meeeeoow meow;

  But the jungle is large and the Cub he is small.  Let him
  Mew mew meeeow me meeow mew mew Mew me me meoow.  Mew mew

     think and be still.
     meeow mew me meoow.

                                 Maxims of Baloo
                                 Meeoow me Meeow




All that is told here happened some time before Mowgli was turned
Mew meow me meow meow meeeooow meow meow meooow Meooow mew meeeow

out of the Seeonee Wolf Pack, or revenged himself on Shere Khan
mew me mew Meeooow Meow Meow, me meeeeeow meeooow me Meeow Meow

the tiger.  It was in the days when Baloo was teaching him the Law
mew meeow.  Me mew me mew meow meow Meeow mew meeeooow mew mew Mew

of the Jungle.  The big, serious, old brown bear was delighted to
me mew Meeeow.  Mew mew, meeooow, mew meoow meow mew meeeeeoow me

have so quick a pupil, for the young wolves will only learn as
meow me meeow m meeow, mew mew meoow meooow meow meow meeow me

much of the Law of the Jungle as applies to their own pack and
meow me mew Mew me mew Meeoow me meoooow me meoow mew meow mew

tribe, and run away as soon as they can repeat the Hunting Verse
meeow, mew mew meow me meow me meow mew meeeow mew Meeeeow Meeow

--"Feet that make no noise; eyes that can see in the dark; ears
--"Meow meow meow me meoow; meow meow mew mew me mew meow; meow

that can hear the winds in their lairs, and sharp white teeth, all
meow mew meow mew meeow me meeow meoow, mew meeow meeow meoow, mew

these things are the marks of our brothers except Tabaqui the
meeow meeoow mew mew meoow me mew meeeeeow meooow Meeeoow mew

Jackal and the Hyaena whom we hate."  But Mowgli, as a man-cub,
Meeeow mew mew Meeeow meow me meow."  Mew Meeeow, me m mew-mew,

had to learn a great deal more than this.  Sometimes Bagheera the
mew me meoow m meoow meow meow meow meow.  Meeooooow Meeoooow mew

Black Panther would come lounging through the jungle to see how
Meeow Meeeeow meeow meow meeeooow meeooow mew meooow me mew mew

his pet was getting on, and would purr with his head against a
mew mew mew meoooow me, mew meeow meow meow mew meow meeeeow m

tree while Mowgli recited the day's lesson to Baloo.  The boy
meow meeow Meeeow meoooow mew mew'm meeoow me Meeow.  Mew mew

could climb almost as well as he could swim, and swim almost as
meoow meoow meeoow me meow me me meoow meow, mew meow meeoow me

well as he could run.  So Baloo, the Teacher of the Law, taught
meow me me meeow mew.  Me Meoow, mew Meoooow me mew Mew, meooow

him the Wood and Water Laws: how to tell a rotten branch from a
mew mew Meow mew Meeow Meow: mew me meow m meeoow meeeow meow m

sound one; how to speak politely to the wild bees when he came
meoow mew; mew me meoow meeoooow me mew meow meow meow me meow

upon a hive of them fifty feet above ground; what to say to Mang
meow m meow me meow meeow meow meeow meeeow; meow me mew me Meow

the Bat when he disturbed him in the branches at midday; and how
mew Mew meow me meeeeeeow mew me mew meeeeeow me meooow; mew mew

to warn the water-snakes in the pools before he splashed down
me meow mew meoow-meeeow me mew meoow meooow me meeeeeow meow

among them.  None of the Jungle People like being disturbed, and
meoow meow.  Meow me mew Meeeow Meooow meow meeow meeeeooow, mew

all are very ready to fly at an intruder.  Then, too, Mowgli was
mew mew meow meeow me mew me me meeeeoow.  Meow, mew, Meooow mew

taught the Strangers' Hunting Call, which must be repeated aloud
meooow mew Meoooooow' Meeeoow Meow, meoow meow me meeeooow meeow

till it is answered, whenever one of the Jungle-People hunts
meow me me meeoooow, meeeeeow mew me mew Meeoow-Meooow meoow

outside his own grounds.  It means, translated, "Give me leave to
meeeoow mew mew meeeeow.  Me meoow, meeeeeeoow, "Meow me meoow me

hunt here because I am hungry."  And the answer is, "Hunt then for
meow meow meeeoow M me meeoow."  Mew mew meeoow me, "Meow meow mew

food, but not for pleasure."
meow, mew mew mew meeeeeow."




All this will show you how much Mowgli had to learn by heart,
Mew meow meow meow mew mew meow Meeeow mew me meoow me meeow,

and he grew very tired of saying the same thing over a hundred
mew me meow meow meoow me meooow mew meow meoow meow m meoooow

times.  But, as Baloo said to Bagheera, one day when Mowgli had
meoow.  Mew, me Meeow meow me Meeeeoow, mew mew meow Meeoow mew

been cuffed and run off in a temper, "A man's cub is a man's cub,
meow meeeow mew mew mew me m meooow, "M mew'm mew me m mew'm mew,

and he must learn all the Law of the Jungle."
mew me meow meeow mew mew Mew me mew Meeoow."




"But think how small he is," said the Black Panther, who would
"Mew meoow mew meeow me me," meow mew Meeow Meoooow, mew meeow

have spoiled Mowgli if he had had his own way.  "How can his
meow meeooow Meooow me me mew mew mew mew mew.  "Mew mew mew

little head carry all thy long talk?"
meooow meow meeow mew mew meow meow?"




"Is there anything in the jungle too little to be killed?  No.
"Me meeow meooooow me mew meeeow mew meeeow me me meeeow?  Me.

That is why I teach him these things, and that is why I hit him,
Meow me mew M meeow mew meoow meeeow, mew meow me mew M mew mew,

very softly, when he forgets."
meow meeeow, meow me meeooow."




"Softly!  What dost thou know of softness, old Iron-feet?"
"Meeoow!  Meow meow meow meow me meeeooow, mew Meow-meow?"

Bagheera grunted.  "His face is all bruised today by thy--
Meeeeoow meeeeow.  "Mew meow me mew meeooow meeow me mew--

softness.  Ugh."
meeeeoow.  Mew."




"Better he should be bruised from head to foot by me who love
"Meeoow me meeeow me meeeoow meow meow me meow me me mew meow

him than that he should come to harm through ignorance," Baloo
mew meow meow me meooow meow me meow meoooow meeooooow," Meoow

answered very earnestly.  "I am now teaching him the Master Words
meeeeeow meow meeeoooow.  "M me mew meooooow mew mew Meeoow Meoow

of the Jungle that shall protect him with the birds and the Snake
me mew Meooow meow meeow meoooow mew meow mew meeow mew mew Meoow

People, and all that hunt on four feet, except his own pack.  He
Meooow, mew mew meow meow me meow meow, meeeow mew mew meow.  Me

can now claim protection, if he will only remember the words, from
mew mew meoow meeoooooow, me me meow meow meeeooow mew meoow, meow

all in the jungle.  Is not that worth a little beating?"
mew me mew meeeow.  Me mew meow meoow m meooow meeeoow?"




"Well, look to it then that thou dost not kill the man-cub.
"Meow, meow me me meow meow meow meow mew meow mew mew-mew.

He is no tree trunk to sharpen thy blunt claws upon.  But what are
Me me me meow meeow me meoooow mew meoow meeow meow.  Mew meow mew

those Master Words?  I am more likely to give help than to ask it"
meoow Meooow Meeow?  M me meow meeoow me meow meow meow me mew me"

--Bagheera stretched out one paw and admired the steel-blue,
--Meooooow meeeoooow mew mew mew mew meoooow mew meeow-meow,

ripping-chisel talons at the end of it--"still I should like to
meeeeow-meeoow meooow me mew mew me me--"meoow M meeoow meow me

know."
meow."




"I will call Mowgli and he shall say them--if he will.
"M meow meow Meeoow mew me meeow mew meow--me me meow.

Come, Little Brother!"
Meow, Meeeow Meeeeow!"




"My head is ringing like a bee tree," said a sullen little
"Me meow me meeooow meow m mew meow," meow m meeeow meooow

voice over their heads, and Mowgli slid down a tree trunk very
meoow meow meeow meoow, mew Meooow meow meow m meow meoow meow

angry and indignant, adding as he reached the ground: "I come for
meeow mew meeooooow, meeeow me me meeooow mew meeoow: "M meow mew

Bagheera and not for thee, fat old Baloo!"
Meeeooow mew mew mew meow, mew mew Meoow!"




"That is all one to me," said Baloo, though he was hurt and
"Meow me mew mew me me," meow Meoow, meooow me mew meow mew

grieved.  "Tell Bagheera, then, the Master Words of the Jungle
meeeeow.  "Meow Meeeeeow, meow, mew Meeeow Meoow me mew Meeeow

that I have taught thee this day."
meow M meow meeoow meow meow mew."




"Master Words for which people?" said Mowgli, delighted to
"Meeoow Meoow mew meoow meeeow?" meow Meeoow, meeooooow me

show off.  "The jungle has many tongues.  I know them all."
meow mew.  "Mew meeeow mew meow meeeeow.  M meow meow mew."




"A little thou knowest, but not much.  See, O Bagheera, they
"M meeeow meow meeeoow, mew mew meow.  Mew, M Meooooow, meow

never thank their teacher.  Not one small wolfling has ever come
meeow meeow meeow meeooow.  Mew mew meoow meeeeoow mew meow meow

back to thank old Baloo for his teachings.  Say the word for the
meow me meoow mew Meoow mew mew meeeeeeow.  Mew mew meow mew mew

Hunting-People, then--great scholar."
Meeeoow-Meooow, meow--meoow meoooow."




"We be of one blood, ye and I," said Mowgli, giving the words
"Me me me mew meeow, me mew M," meow Meeeow, meeeow mew meeow

the Bear accent which all the Hunting People use.
mew Meow meeeow meeow mew mew Meeeoow Meooow mew.




"Good.  Now for the birds."
"Meow.  Mew mew mew meeow."




Mowgli repeated, with the Kite's whistle at the end of the
Meooow meooooow, meow mew Meow'm meeooow me mew mew me mew

sentence.
meeeeeow.




"Now for the Snake-People," said Bagheera.
"Mew mew mew Meoow-Meeeow," meow Meeeeoow.




The answer was a perfectly indescribable hiss, and Mowgli
Mew meeoow mew m meeeeeoow meeeeeeeeooow meow, mew Meeoow

kicked up his feet behind, clapped his hands together to applaud
meeeow me mew meow meooow, meeooow mew meoow meooooow me meeooow

himself, and jumped on to Bagheera's back, where he sat sideways,
meeeoow, mew meeoow me me Meooooow'm meow, meeow me mew meooooow,

drumming with his heels on the glossy skin and making the worst
meeoooow meow mew meoow me mew meooow meow mew meeeow mew meeow

faces he could think of at Baloo.
meeow me meeow meoow me me Meoow.




"There--there!  That was worth a little bruise," said the
"Meoow--meoow!  Meow mew meeow m meeoow meeeow," meow mew

brown bear tenderly.  "Some day thou wilt remember me."  Then he
meeow meow meeeooow.  "Meow mew meow meow meooooow me."  Meow me

turned aside to tell Bagheera how he had begged the Master Words
meeeow meeow me meow Meeoooow mew me mew meooow mew Meeeow Meoow

from Hathi the Wild Elephant, who knows all about these things,
meow Meeow mew Meow Meeeooow, mew meoow mew meeow meeow meeoow,

and how Hathi had taken Mowgli down to a pool to get the Snake
mew mew Meoow mew meoow Meeeow meow me m meow me mew mew Meeow

Word from a water-snake, because Baloo could not pronounce it, and
Meow meow m meeow-meeow, meeeoow Meeow meeow mew meeeeooow me, mew

how Mowgli was now reasonably safe against all accidents in the
mew Meeeow mew mew meeoooooow meow meeeeow mew meeeeooow me mew

jungle, because neither snake, bird, nor beast would hurt him.
meeeow, meeeoow meoooow meeow, meow, mew meeow meeow meow mew.




"No one then is to be feared," Baloo wound up, patting his big
"Me mew meow me me me meeoow," Meeow meoow me, meeooow mew mew

furry stomach with pride.
meeow meeooow meow meoow.




"Except his own tribe," said Bagheera, under his breath; and
"Meeeow mew mew meeow," meow Meeeooow, meoow mew meeoow; mew

then aloud to Mowgli, "Have a care for my ribs, Little Brother!
meow meoow me Meeeow, "Meow m meow mew me meow, Meeeow Meeeoow!

What is all this dancing up and down?"
Meow me mew meow meeooow me mew meow?"




Mowgli had been trying to make himself heard by pulling at
Meooow mew meow meooow me meow meeeeow meoow me meeooow me

Bagheera's shoulder fur and kicking hard.  When the two listened
Meeoooow'm meeeooow mew mew meeeoow meow.  Meow mew mew meeeooow

to him he was shouting at the top of his voice, "And so I shall
me mew me mew meeeooow me mew mew me mew meeow, "Mew me M meeow

have a tribe of my own, and lead them through the branches all day
meow m meeow me me mew, mew meow meow meeeoow mew meeoooow mew mew

long."
meow."




"What is this new folly, little dreamer of dreams?" said
"Meow me meow mew meeow, meeeow meeooow me meeoow?" meow

Bagheera.
Meooooow.




"Yes, and throw branches and dirt at old Baloo," Mowgli went
"Mew, mew meeow meeoooow mew meow me mew Meoow," Meeoow meow

on.  "They have promised me this.  Ah!"
me.  "Meow meow meeeeeow me meow.  Me!"




"Whoof!"  Baloo's big paw scooped Mowgli off Bagheera's back,
"Meeow!"  Meoow'm mew mew meeooow Meeeow mew Meooooow'm meow,

and as the boy lay between the big fore-paws he could see the Bear
mew me mew mew mew meoooow mew mew meow-meow me meoow mew mew Meow

was angry.
mew meeow.




"Mowgli," said Baloo, "thou hast been talking with the
"Meeeow," meow Meeow, "meow meow meow meeooow meow mew

Bandar-log--the Monkey People."
Meeeow-mew--mew Meooow Meooow."




Mowgli looked at Bagheera to see if the Panther was angry too,
Meeeow meooow me Meeoooow me mew me mew Meeeoow mew meoow mew,

and Bagheera's eyes were as hard as jade stones.
mew Meeeeeow'm meow meow me meow me meow meeeow.




"Thou hast been with the Monkey People--the gray apes--the
"Meow meow meow meow mew Meeoow Meeoow--mew meow meow--mew

people without a law--the eaters of everything.  That is great
meeoow meeeeow m mew--mew meeeow me meooooooow.  Meow me meeow

shame."
meoow."




"When Baloo hurt my head," said Mowgli (he was still on his
"Meow Meoow meow me meow," meow Meeoow (me mew meeow me mew

back), "I went away, and the gray apes came down from the trees
meow), "M meow meow, mew mew meow meow meow meow meow mew meeow

and had pity on me.  No one else cared."  He snuffled a little.
mew mew meow me me.  Me mew meow meeow."  Me meooooow m meeeow.




"The pity of the Monkey People!" Baloo snorted.  "The
"Mew meow me mew Meeeow Meooow!" Meeow meoooow.  "Mew

stillness of the mountain stream!  The cool of the summer sun!
meeeeeeow me mew meeeeoow meeeow!  Mew meow me mew meeeow mew!

And then, man-cub?"
Mew meow, mew-mew?"




"And then, and then, they gave me nuts and pleasant things to
"Mew meow, mew meow, meow meow me meow mew meeeooow meeoow me

eat, and they--they carried me in their arms up to the top of
mew, mew meow--meow meeooow me me meeow meow me me mew mew me

the trees and said I was their blood brother except that I had no
mew meoow mew meow M mew meoow meeow meoooow meeeow meow M mew me

tail, and should be their leader some day."
meow, mew meeeow me meoow meeeow meow mew."




"They have no leader," said Bagheera.  "They lie.  They have
"Meow meow me meooow," meow Meooooow.  "Meow mew.  Meow meow

always lied."
meeeow meow."




"They were very kind and bade me come again.  Why have I never
"Meow meow meow meow mew meow me meow meoow.  Mew meow M meeow

been taken among the Monkey People?  They stand on their feet as I
meow meoow meeow mew Meooow Meooow?  Meow meeow me meeow meow me M

do.  They do not hit me with their hard paws.  They play all day.
me.  Meow me mew mew me meow meoow meow meow.  Meow meow mew mew.

Let me get up!  Bad Baloo, let me up!  I will play with them
Mew me mew me!  Mew Meoow, mew me me!  M meow meow meow meow

again."
meoow."




"Listen, man-cub," said the Bear, and his voice rumbled like
"Meooow, mew-mew," meow mew Meow, mew mew meoow meeeeow meow

thunder on a hot night.  "I have taught thee all the Law of the
meeeoow me m mew meeow.  "M meow meooow meow mew mew Mew me mew

Jungle for all the peoples of the jungle--except the Monkey-Folk
Meooow mew mew mew meeeoow me mew meeeow--meeeow mew Meooow-Meow

who live in the trees.  They have no law.  They are outcasts.
mew meow me mew meeow.  Meow meow me mew.  Meow mew meooooow.

They have no speech of their own, but use the stolen words which
Meow meow me meooow me meoow mew, mew mew mew meeeow meeow meoow

they overhear when they listen, and peep, and wait up above in
meow meooooow meow meow meooow, mew meow, mew meow me meoow me

the branches.  Their way is not our way.  They are without
mew meeeooow.  Meeow mew me mew mew mew.  Meow mew meeeoow

leaders.  They have no remembrance.  They boast and chatter and
meoooow.  Meow meow me meoooooooow.  Meow meoow mew meeeoow mew

pretend that they are a great people about to do great affairs in
meeeeow meow meow mew m meoow meeeow meeow me me meoow meeooow me

the jungle, but the falling of a nut turns their minds to laughter
mew meooow, mew mew meeeeow me m mew meoow meoow meeow me meooooow

and all is forgotten.  We of the jungle have no dealings with
mew mew me meeeeeoow.  Me me mew meeoow meow me meeeeoow meow

them.  We do not drink where the monkeys drink; we do not go where
meow.  Me me mew meeow meoow mew meoooow meoow; me me mew me meeow

the monkeys go; we do not hunt where they hunt; we do not die
mew meeeeow me; me me mew meow meoow meow meow; me me mew mew

where they die.  Hast thou ever heard me speak of the Bandar-log
meoow meow mew.  Meow meow meow meoow me meeow me mew Meeoow-mew

till today?"
meow meoow?"




"No," said Mowgli in a whisper, for the forest was very still
"Me," meow Meeoow me m meeeeow, mew mew meooow mew meow meeow

now Baloo had finished.
mew Meoow mew meeeooow.




"The Jungle-People put them out of their mouths and out of
"Mew Meooow-Meeoow mew meow mew me meoow meooow mew mew me

their minds.  They are very many, evil, dirty, shameless, and they
meeow meoow.  Meow mew meow meow, meow, meeow, meoooooow, mew meow

desire, if they have any fixed desire, to be noticed by the Jungle
meeeow, me meow meow mew meoow meooow, me me meeooow me mew Meeoow

People.  But we do not notice them even when they throw nuts and
Meeoow.  Mew me me mew meeoow meow meow meow meow meeow meow mew

filth on our heads."
meoow me mew meeow."




He had hardly spoken when a shower of nuts and twigs spattered
Me mew meooow meooow meow m meooow me meow mew meeow meeeeeoow

down through the branches; and they could hear coughings and
meow meeeeow mew meeeeoow; mew meow meeow meow meeeeooow mew

howlings and angry jumpings high up in the air among the thin
meeeeeow mew meoow meeeooow meow me me mew mew meeow mew meow

branches.
meeeooow.




"The Monkey-People are forbidden," said Baloo, "forbidden to
"Mew Meeoow-Meooow mew meeooooow," meow Meoow, "meoooooow me

the Jungle-People.  Remember."
mew Meeeow-Meeeow.  Meooooow."




"Forbidden," said Bagheera, "but I still think Baloo should
"Meeeeooow," meow Meooooow, "mew M meoow meoow Meoow meooow

have warned thee against them."
meow meeoow meow meeeoow meow."




"I--I?  How was I to guess he would play with such dirt.
"M--M?  Mew mew M me meeow me meeow meow meow meow meow.

The Monkey People!  Faugh!"
Mew Meooow Meeoow!  Meoow!"




A fresh shower came down on their heads and the two trotted
M meoow meooow meow meow me meeow meoow mew mew mew meoooow

away, taking Mowgli with them.  What Baloo had said about the
meow, meeeow Meeeow meow meow.  Meow Meeow mew meow meoow mew

monkeys was perfectly true.  They belonged to the tree-tops, and as
meeeoow mew meeeeeoow meow.  Meow meeeeeow me mew meow-meow, mew me

beasts very seldom look up, there was no occasion for the monkeys
meeeow meow meooow meow me, meeow mew me meeeeoow mew mew meeeeow

and the Jungle-People to cross each other's path.  But whenever
mew mew Meeeow-Meooow me meoow meow meoow'm meow.  Mew meeoooow

they found a sick wolf, or a wounded tiger, or bear, the monkeys
meow meeow m meow meow, me m meeeoow meeow, me meow, mew meeeeow

would torment him, and would throw sticks and nuts at any beast
meoow meoooow mew, mew meeow meoow meeeow mew meow me mew meoow

for fun and in the hope of being noticed.  Then they would howl
mew mew mew me mew meow me meeow meeeoow.  Meow meow meoow meow

and shriek senseless songs, and invite the Jungle-People to climb
mew meeoow meeeoooow meoow, mew meeeow mew Meooow-Meooow me meeow

up their trees and fight them, or would start furious battles over
me meeow meeow mew meeow meow, me meoow meeow meeeoow meeooow meow

nothing among themselves, and leave the dead monkeys where the
meoooow meoow meeeeoooow, mew meoow mew meow meeeeow meeow mew

Jungle-People could see them.  They were always just going to have
Meeoow-Meeoow meoow mew meow.  Meow meow meooow meow meoow me meow

a leader, and laws and customs of their own, but they never did,
m meeeow, mew meow mew meoooow me meoow mew, mew meow meoow mew,

because their memories would not hold over from day to day, and so
meeooow meeow meeoooow meoow mew meow meow meow mew me mew, mew me

they compromised things by making up a saying, "What the
meow meeeeooooow meooow me meeeow me m meeeow, "Meow mew

Bandar-log think now the jungle will think later," and that
Meeoow-mew meoow mew mew meooow meow meeow meoow," mew meow

comforted them a great deal.  None of the beasts could reach them,
meeooooow meow m meeow meow.  Meow me mew meeeow meoow meoow meow,

but on the other hand none of the beasts would notice them, and
mew me mew meeow meow meow me mew meeoow meeow meooow meow, mew

that was why they were so pleased when Mowgli came to play with
meow mew mew meow meow me meeooow meow Meeeow meow me meow meow

them, and they heard how angry Baloo was.
meow, mew meow meoow mew meoow Meeow mew.




They never meant to do any more--the Bandar-log never mean
Meow meoow meeow me me mew meow--mew Meooow-mew meoow meow

anything at all; but one of them invented what seemed to him a
meooooow me mew; mew mew me meow meooooow meow meeeow me mew m

brilliant idea, and he told all the others that Mowgli would be a
meeeeooow meow, mew me meow mew mew meeeow meow Meeeow meeow me m

useful person to keep in the tribe, because he could weave sticks
meeeow meooow me meow me mew meoow, meoooow me meeow meoow meooow

together for protection from the wind; so, if they caught him,
meeoooow mew meeeeeeeow meow mew meow; me, me meow meeoow mew,

they could make him teach them.  Of course Mowgli, as a
meow meeow meow mew meeow meow.  Me meooow Meeeow, me m

woodcutter's child, inherited all sorts of instincts, and used to
meooooooow'm meoow, meeeeooow mew meoow me meoooooow, mew meow me

make little huts of fallen branches without thinking how he came
meow meeeow meow me meeeow meeeeoow meeooow meeeeoow mew me meow

to do it.  The Monkey-People, watching in the trees, considered
me me me.  Mew Meeeow-Meooow, meeeeoow me mew meoow, meeeeeooow

his play most wonderful.  This time, they said, they were really
mew meow meow meeooooow.  Meow meow, meow meow, meow meow meooow

going to have a leader and become the wisest people in the jungle
meoow me meow m meeeow mew meeoow mew meeeow meeeow me mew meooow

--so wise that everyone else would notice and envy them.
--me meow meow meooooow meow meeow meooow mew meow meow.

Therefore they followed Baloo and Bagheera and Mowgli through the
Meeeeeeow meow meooooow Meeow mew Meeeeeow mew Meooow meeeoow mew

jungle very quietly till it was time for the midday nap, and
meeeow meow meeeeow meow me mew meow mew mew meooow mew, mew

Mowgli, who was very much ashamed of himself, slept between the
Meeeow, mew mew meow meow meeeeow me meeeeow, meoow meeeeow mew

Panther and the Bear, resolving to have no more to do with the
Meeooow mew mew Meow, meeooooow me meow me meow me me meow mew

Monkey People.
Meeeow Meeeow.




The next thing he remembered was feeling hands on his legs and
Mew meow meoow me meeeeeeoow mew meoooow meeow me mew meow mew

arms--hard, strong, little hands--and then a swash of branches
meow--meow, meeeow, meeeow meeow--mew meow m meoow me meeeooow

in his face, and then he was staring down through the swaying
me mew meow, mew meow me mew meeeeow meow meeeeow mew meeeoow

boughs as Baloo woke the jungle with his deep cries and Bagheera
meeoow me Meeow meow mew meeeow meow mew meow meeow mew Meooooow

bounded up the trunk with every tooth bared.  The Bandar-log
meeeoow me mew meoow meow meeow meeow meeow.  Mew Meooow-mew

howled with triumph and scuffled away to the upper branches where
meooow meow meeeoow mew meooooow meow me mew meoow meeeeeow meeow

Bagheera dared not follow, shouting: "He has noticed us!  Bagheera
Meeeeoow meeow mew meeoow, meooooow: "Me mew meeooow me!  Meeoooow

has noticed us.  All the Jungle-People admire us for our skill and
mew meeeoow me.  Mew mew Meooow-Meooow meeeow me mew mew meeow mew

our cunning."  Then they began their flight; and the flight of the
mew meeeeow."  Meow meow meeow meeow meeoow; mew mew meeeow me mew

Monkey-People through tree-land is one of the things nobody can
Meeoow-Meeeow meeooow meow-meow me mew me mew meooow meeoow mew

describe.  They have their regular roads and crossroads, up hills
meeeooow.  Meow meow meeow meeeeow meeow mew meeeeeeoow, me meeow

and down hills, all laid out from fifty to seventy or a hundred
mew meow meeow, mew meow mew meow meeow me meeeeow me m meeooow

feet above ground, and by these they can travel even at night if
meow meeow meeoow, mew me meeow meow mew meooow meow me meoow me

necessary.  Two of the strongest monkeys caught Mowgli under the
meeeoooow.  Mew me mew meeeeeeow meeeeow meeeow Meeeow meoow mew

arms and swung off with him through the treetops, twenty feet at a
meow mew meeow mew meow mew meeeeow mew meeeeoow, meooow meow me m

bound.  Had they been alone they could have gone twice as fast,
meoow.  Mew meow meow meoow meow meeow meow meow meeow me meow,

but the boy's weight held them back.  Sick and giddy as Mowgli was
mew mew mew'm meooow meow meow meow.  Meow mew meeow me Meooow mew

he could not help enjoying the wild rush, though the glimpses of
me meeow mew meow meeeeoow mew meow meow, meeoow mew meeeeeow me

earth far down below frightened him, and the terrible check and
meeow mew meow meoow meeeeeeoow mew, mew mew meeeeeow meoow mew

jerk at the end of the swing over nothing but empty air brought
meow me mew mew me mew meeow meow meeeoow mew meeow mew meeeoow

his heart between his teeth.  His escort would rush him up a tree
mew meeow meoooow mew meoow.  Mew meeoow meoow meow mew me m meow

till he felt the thinnest topmost branches crackle and bend under
meow me meow mew meeeeeow meeooow meeeooow meeooow mew meow meeow

them, and then with a cough and a whoop would fling themselves
meow, mew meow meow m meoow mew m meoow meoow meeow meeeeeeoow

into the air outward and downward, and bring up, hanging by their
meow mew mew meeeeow mew meeoooow, mew meoow me, meeeeow me meeow

hands or their feet to the lower limbs of the next tree.
meoow me meoow meow me mew meoow meeow me mew meow meow.

Sometimes he could see for miles and miles across the still green
Meeeeeeow me meeow mew mew meeow mew meeow meooow mew meeow meoow

jungle, as a man on the top of a mast can see for miles across the
meeoow, me m mew me mew mew me m meow mew mew mew meoow meooow mew

sea, and then the branches and leaves would lash him across the
mew, mew meow mew meeeeeow mew meeoow meeow meow mew meooow mew

face, and he and his two guards would be almost down to earth
meow, mew me mew mew mew meooow meoow me meeeow meow me meeow

again.  So, bounding and crashing and whooping and yelling, the
meoow.  Me, meeoooow mew meeeooow mew meeeooow mew meeeoow, mew

whole tribe of Bandar-log swept along the tree-roads with Mowgli
meeow meoow me Meooow-mew meoow meeow mew meow-meeow meow Meeeow

their prisoner.
meeow meeeeoow.




For a time he was afraid of being dropped.  Then he grew angry
Mew m meow me mew meooow me meeow meeeeow.  Meow me meow meeow

but knew better than to struggle, and then he began to think.  The
mew meow meooow meow me meooooow, mew meow me meoow me meeow.  Mew

first thing was to send back word to Baloo and Bagheera, for, at
meoow meoow mew me meow meow meow me Meoow mew Meeeeeow, mew, me

the pace the monkeys were going, he knew his friends would be left
mew meow mew meeooow meow meeow, me meow mew meeooow meoow me meow

far behind.  It was useless to look down, for he could only see
mew meooow.  Me mew meeooow me meow meow, mew me meoow meow mew

the topsides of the branches, so he stared upward and saw, far
mew meooooow me mew meooooow, me me meooow meeeow mew mew, mew

away in the blue, Rann the Kite balancing and wheeling as he kept
meow me mew meow, Meow mew Meow meeeeeeow mew meeoooow me me meow

watch over the jungle waiting for things to die.  Rann saw that
meeow meow mew meeoow meeeoow mew meeeow me mew.  Meow mew meow

the monkeys were carrying something, and dropped a few hundred
mew meoooow meow meeeeeow meeooooow, mew meeeoow m mew meeeoow

yards to find out whether their load was good to eat.  He whistled
meeow me meow mew meeeeow meeow meow mew meow me mew.  Me meeeeeow

with surprise when he saw Mowgli being dragged up to a treetop and
meow meeeeeow meow me mew Meeoow meoow meeeoow me me m meeeeow mew

heard him give the Kite call for--"We be of one blood, thou and
meoow mew meow mew Meow meow mew--"Me me me mew meeow, meow mew

I."  The waves of the branches closed over the boy, but Chil
M."  Mew meeow me mew meooooow meeeow meow mew mew, mew Meow

balanced away to the next tree in time to see the little brown
meooooow meow me mew meow meow me meow me mew mew meooow meeow

face come up again.  "Mark my trail!" Mowgli shouted.  "Tell
meow meow me meeow.  "Meow me meoow!" Meeoow meoooow.  "Meow

Baloo of the Seeonee Pack and Bagheera of the Council Rock."
Meoow me mew Meoooow Meow mew Meeeeeow me mew Meeooow Meow."




"In whose name, Brother?" Rann had never seen Mowgli before,
"Me meoow meow, Meoooow?" Meow mew meeow meow Meeeow meeeow,

though of course he had heard of him.
meooow me meooow me mew meeow me mew.




"Mowgli, the Frog.  Man-cub they call me!  Mark my tra-il!"
"Meooow, mew Meow.  Mew-mew meow meow me!  Meow me mew-me!"




The last words were shrieked as he was being swung through the
Mew meow meeow meow meooooow me me mew meoow meoow meeooow mew

air, but Rann nodded and rose up till he looked no bigger than a
mew, mew Meow meooow mew meow me meow me meeeow me meeoow meow m

speck of dust, and there he hung, watching with his telescope eyes
meeow me meow, mew meoow me meow, meeeooow meow mew meoooooow meow

the swaying of the treetops as Mowgli's escort whirled along.
mew meeeeow me mew meeoooow me Meeeow'm meeeow meeooow meoow.




"They never go far," he said with a chuckle.  "They never do
"Meow meeow me mew," me meow meow m meeeeow.  "Meow meoow me

what they set out to do.  Always pecking at new things are the
meow meow mew mew me me.  Meeoow meeeeow me mew meeeow mew mew

Bandar-log.  This time, if I have any eye-sight, they have pecked
Meeeow-mew.  Meow meow, me M meow mew mew-meeow, meow meow meooow

down trouble for themselves, for Baloo is no fledgling and
meow meeeeow mew meeeeoooow, mew Meeow me me meeeeeeow mew

Bagheera can, as I know, kill more than goats."
Meeoooow mew, me M meow, meow meow meow meeow."




So he rocked on his wings, his feet gathered up under him, and
Me me meeoow me mew meoow, mew meow meooooow me meeow mew, mew

waited.
meeoow.




Meantime, Baloo and Bagheera were furious with rage and grief.
Meeoooow, Meeow mew Meooooow meow meeeoow meow meow mew meoow.

Bagheera climbed as he had never climbed before, but the thin
Meooooow meoooow me me mew meoow meeeeow meeeow, mew mew meow

branches broke beneath his weight, and he slipped down, his claws
meooooow meeow meoooow mew meeoow, mew me meeeeow meow, mew meoow

full of bark.
meow me meow.




"Why didst thou not warn the man-cub?" he roared to poor
"Mew meeow meow mew meow mew mew-mew?" me meooow me meow

Baloo, who had set off at a clumsy trot in the hope of overtaking
Meoow, mew mew mew mew me m meeoow meow me mew meow me meeeeoooow

the monkeys.  "What was the use of half slaying him with blows if
mew meoooow.  "Meow mew mew mew me meow meoooow mew meow meoow me

thou didst not warn him?"
meow meoow mew meow mew?"




"Haste!  O haste!  We--we may catch them yet!"  Baloo
"Meoow!  M meoow!  Me--me mew meeow meow mew!"  Meoow

panted.
meooow.




"At that speed!  It would not tire a wounded cow.  Teacher of
"Me meow meeow!  Me meoow mew meow m meoooow mew.  Meoooow me

the Law--cub-beater--a mile of that rolling to and fro would
mew Mew--mew-meooow--m meow me meow meeeoow me mew mew meoow

burst thee open.  Sit still and think!  Make a plan.  This is no
meeow meow meow.  Mew meoow mew meoow!  Meow m meow.  Meow me me

time for chasing.  They may drop him if we follow too close."
meow mew meeeoow.  Meow mew meow mew me me meeeow mew meoow."




"Arrula!  Whoo!  They may have dropped him already, being
"Meeoow!  Meow!  Meow mew meow meeeoow mew meeooow, meoow

tired of carrying him.  Who can trust the Bandar-log?  Put dead
meeow me meooooow mew.  Mew mew meoow mew Meeeow-mew?  Mew meow

bats on my head!  Give me black bones to eat!  Roll me into the
meow me me meow!  Meow me meoow meeow me mew!  Meow me meow mew

hives of the wild bees that I may be stung to death, and bury me
meeow me mew meow meow meow M mew me meeow me meeow, mew meow me

with the Hyaena, for I am most miserable of bears!  Arulala!
meow mew Meeoow, mew M me meow meeeoooow me meeow!  Meeeeow!

Wahooa!  O Mowgli, Mowgli!  Why did I not warn thee against the
Meeeow!  M Meooow, Meooow!  Mew mew M mew meow meow meoooow mew

Monkey-Folk instead of breaking thy head?  Now perhaps I may have
Meooow-Meow meeeeow me meeeeoow mew meow?  Mew meeeeow M mew meow

knocked the day's lesson out of his mind, and he will be alone in
meeooow mew mew'm meeeow mew me mew meow, mew me meow me meoow me

the jungle without the Master Words."
mew meeeow meeeoow mew Meooow Meeow."




Baloo clasped his paws over his ears and rolled to and fro
Meoow meoooow mew meow meow mew meow mew meeoow me mew mew

moaning.
meeooow.




"At least he gave me all the Words correctly a little time
"Me meoow me meow me mew mew Meeow meeeeooow m meeoow meow

ago," said Bagheera impatiently.  "Baloo, thou hast neither memory
mew," meow Meeeooow meoooooooow.  "Meeow, meow meow meeeeow meeoow

nor respect.  What would the jungle think if I, the Black Panther,
mew meoooow.  Meow meoow mew meeeow meoow me M, mew Meeow Meoooow,

curled myself up like Ikki the Porcupine, and howled?"
meeoow meeeow me meow Meow mew Meeeeeeow, mew meeoow?"




"What do I care what the jungle thinks?  He may be dead by
"Meow me M meow meow mew meeeow meooow?  Me mew me meow me

now."
mew."




"Unless and until they drop him from the branches in sport, or
"Meeoow mew meoow meow meow mew meow mew meeoooow me meoow, me

kill him out of idleness, I have no fear for the man-cub.  He is
meow mew mew me meeeooow, M meow me meow mew mew mew-mew.  Me me

wise and well taught, and above all he has the eyes that make the
meow mew meow meeoow, mew meeow mew me mew mew meow meow meow mew

Jungle-People afraid.  But (and it is a great evil) he is in the
Meooow-Meeoow meeeow.  Mew (mew me me m meeow meow) me me me mew

power of the Bandar-log, and they, because they live in trees,
meeow me mew Meeoow-mew, mew meow, meeeeow meow meow me meeow,

have no fear of any of our people."  Bagheera licked one forepaw
meow me meow me mew me mew meooow."  Meeeeeow meeoow mew meoooow

thoughtfully.
meeeeeeeeeow.




"Fool that I am!  Oh, fat, brown, root-digging fool that I
"Meow meow M me!  Me, mew, meeow, meow-meeooow meow meow M

am," said Baloo, uncoiling himself with a jerk, "it is true what
me," meow Meeow, meeeeeoow meeeeow meow m meow, "me me meow meow

Hathi the Wild Elephant says: `To each his own fear'; and they,
Meeow mew Meow Meeeeoow meow: `Me meow mew mew meow'; mew meow,

the Bandar-log, fear Kaa the Rock Snake.  He can climb as well as
mew Meooow-mew, meow Mew mew Meow Meoow.  Me mew meeow me meow me

they can.  He steals the young monkeys in the night.  The whisper
meow mew.  Me meeoow mew meoow meeeeow me mew meeow.  Mew meeeoow

of his name makes their wicked tails cold.  Let us go to Kaa."
me mew meow meeow meeow meooow meoow meow.  Mew me me me Mew."




"What will he do for us?  He is not of our tribe, being
"Meow meow me me mew me?  Me me mew me mew meoow, meoow

footless--and with most evil eyes," said Bagheera.
meeoooow--mew meow meow meow meow," meow Meeeeoow.




"He is very old and very cunning.  Above all, he is always
"Me me meow mew mew meow meeeoow.  Meoow mew, me me meooow

hungry," said Baloo hopefully.  "Promise him many goats."
meooow," meow Meeow meeeeooow.  "Meoooow mew meow meeow."




"He sleeps for a full month after he has once eaten.  He may
"Me meooow mew m meow meeow meeow me mew meow meeow.  Me mew

be asleep now, and even were he awake what if he would rather kill
me meeoow mew, mew meow meow me meeow meow me me meeow meeoow meow

his own goats?"  Bagheera, who did not know much about Kaa, was
mew mew meoow?"  Meeoooow, mew mew mew meow meow meeow Mew, mew

naturally suspicious.
meeeeeeow meeeooooow.




"Then in that case, thou and I together, old hunter, might
"Meow me meow meow, meow mew M meeoooow, mew meeoow, meoow

make him see reason."  Here Baloo rubbed his faded brown shoulder
meow mew mew meooow."  Meow Meoow meeeow mew meoow meeow meooooow

against the Panther, and they went off to look for Kaa the Rock
meeooow mew Meeeoow, mew meow meow mew me meow mew Mew mew Meow

Python.
Meeeow.




They found him stretched out on a warm ledge in the afternoon
Meow meeow mew meeeoooow mew me m meow meeow me mew meeeeooow

sun, admiring his beautiful new coat, for he had been in
mew, meeeeoow mew meeeeooow mew meow, mew me mew meow me

retirement for the last ten days changing his skin, and now he was
meeeeeeoow mew mew meow mew meow meeeooow mew meow, mew mew me mew

very splendid--darting his big blunt-nosed head along the
meow meeeeeow--meoooow mew mew meoow-meoow meow meoow mew

ground, and twisting the thirty feet of his body into fantastic
meeeow, mew meeeeeow mew meeeow meow me mew meow meow meoooooow

knots and curves, and licking his lips as he thought of his dinner
meoow mew meooow, mew meeeoow mew meow me me meeooow me mew meeeow

to come.
me meow.




"He has not eaten," said Baloo, with a grunt of relief, as
"Me mew mew meoow," meow Meoow, meow m meoow me meooow, me

soon as he saw the beautifully mottled brown and yellow jacket.
meow me me mew mew meeeeeeeoow meeooow meoow mew meeoow meooow.

"Be careful, Bagheera!  He is always a little blind after he has
"Me meeooow, Meeoooow!  Me me meooow m meeeow meeow meeow me mew

changed his skin, and very quick to strike."
meeeoow mew meow, mew meow meoow me meeoow."




Kaa was not a poison snake--in fact he rather despised the
Mew mew mew m meeoow meoow--me meow me meeeow meooooow mew

poison snakes as cowards--but his strength lay in his hug, and
meooow meeeow me meeeoow--mew mew meooooow mew me mew mew, mew

when he had once lapped his huge coils round anybody there was no
meow me mew meow meeoow mew meow meeow meoow meeeoow meeow mew me

more to be said.  "Good hunting!" cried Baloo, sitting up on his
meow me me meow.  "Meow meeooow!" meoow Meeow, meeeeow me me mew

haunches.  Like all snakes of his breed Kaa was rather deaf, and
meeoooow.  Meow mew meeoow me mew meeow Mew mew meooow meow, mew

did not hear the call at first.  Then he curled up ready for any
mew mew meow mew meow me meoow.  Meow me meooow me meoow mew mew

accident, his head lowered.
meooooow, mew meow meoooow.




"Good hunting for us all," he answered.  "Oho, Baloo, what
"Meow meeeeow mew me mew," me meeoooow.  "Mew, Meoow, meow

dost thou do here?  Good hunting, Bagheera.  One of us at least
meow meow me meow?  Meow meeeoow, Meeeooow.  Mew me me me meeow

needs food.  Is there any news of game afoot?  A doe now, or even
meeow meow.  Me meoow mew meow me meow meoow?  M mew mew, me meow

a young buck?  I am as empty as a dried well."
m meoow meow?  M me me meoow me m meoow meow."




"We are hunting," said Baloo carelessly.  He knew that you
"Me mew meeooow," meow Meoow meeeooooow.  Me meow meow mew

must not hurry Kaa.  He is too big.
meow mew meoow Mew.  Me me mew mew.




"Give me permission to come with you," said Kaa.  "A blow more
"Meow me meeeooooow me meow meow mew," meow Mew.  "M meow meow

or less is nothing to thee, Bagheera or Baloo, but I--I have to
me meow me meeeeow me meow, Meeeooow me Meoow, mew M--M meow me

wait and wait for days in a wood-path and climb half a night on
meow mew meow mew meow me m meow-meow mew meoow meow m meeow me

the mere chance of a young ape.  Psshaw!  The branches are not
mew meow meooow me m meeow mew.  Meeeow!  Mew meeeeoow mew mew

what they were when I was young.  Rotten twigs and dry boughs are
meow meow meow meow M mew meeow.  Meeeow meoow mew mew meooow mew

they all."
meow mew."




"Maybe thy great weight has something to do with the matter,"
"Meoow mew meoow meeeow mew meeeeooow me me meow mew meeoow,"

said Baloo.
meow Meoow.




"I am a fair length--a fair length," said Kaa with a little
"M me m meow meeeow--m meow meeoow," meow Mew meow m meeeow

pride.  "But for all that, it is the fault of this new-grown
meeow.  "Mew mew mew meow, me me mew meoow me meow mew-meoow

timber.  I came very near to falling on my last hunt--very near
meeoow.  M meow meow meow me meoooow me me meow meow--meow meow

indeed--and the noise of my slipping, for my tail was not tight
meooow--mew mew meoow me me meooooow, mew me meow mew mew meeow

wrapped around the tree, waked the Bandar-log, and they called me
meeooow meeoow mew meow, meeow mew Meooow-mew, mew meow meeeow me

most evil names."
meow meow meeow."




"Footless, yellow earth-worm," said Bagheera under his
"Meeeeoow, meooow meoow-meow," meow Meeeeoow meoow mew

whiskers, as though he were trying to remember something.
meeeeoow, me meeeow me meow meeeow me meeoooow meeeeeoow.




"Sssss!  Have they ever called me that?" said Kaa.
"Meoow!  Meow meow meow meooow me meow?" meow Mew.




"Something of that kind it was that they shouted to us last
"Meeooooow me meow meow me mew meow meow meeeoow me me meow

moon, but we never noticed them.  They will say anything--even
meow, mew me meoow meeeeow meow.  Meow meow mew meeeeeow--meow

that thou hast lost all thy teeth, and wilt not face anything
meow meow meow meow mew mew meoow, mew meow mew meow meeeeoow

bigger than a kid, because (they are indeed shameless, these
meeeow meow m mew, meeooow (meow mew meeoow meeeeooow, meoow

Bandar-log)--because thou art afraid of the he-goat's horns,"
Meooow-mew)--meeeoow meow mew meeoow me mew me-meow'm meoow,"

Bagheera went on sweetly.
Meooooow meow me meeooow.




Now a snake, especially a wary old python like Kaa, very
Mew m meoow, meeeeeeoow m meow mew meeoow meow Mew, meow

seldom shows that he is angry, but Baloo and Bagheera could see
meeoow meeow meow me me meeow, mew Meeow mew Meeoooow meoow mew

the big swallowing muscles on either side of Kaa's throat ripple
mew mew meeoooooow meeeeow me meeoow meow me Mew'm meeoow meooow

and bulge.
mew meoow.




"The Bandar-log have shifted their grounds," he said quietly.
"Mew Meeoow-mew meow meeooow meoow meoooow," me meow meeeeow.

"When I came up into the sun today I heard them whooping among the
"Meow M meow me meow mew mew meeow M meoow meow meeoooow meoow mew

tree-tops."
meow-meow."




"It--it is the Bandar-log that we follow now," said Baloo,
"Me--me me mew Meeoow-mew meow me meeoow mew," meow Meoow,

but the words stuck in his throat, for that was the first time in
mew mew meoow meoow me mew meooow, mew meow mew mew meeow meow me

his memory that one of the Jungle-People had owned to being
mew meeeow meow mew me mew Meeeow-Meeeow mew meoow me meoow

interested in the doings of the monkeys.
meeeeeeoow me mew meeeow me mew meoooow.




"Beyond doubt then it is no small thing that takes two such
"Meooow meoow meow me me me meoow meoow meow meoow mew meow

hunters--leaders in their own jungle I am certain--on the
meeeeow--meeeeow me meoow mew meeeow M me meeeeow--me mew

trail of the Bandar-log," Kaa replied courteously, as he swelled
meeow me mew Meooow-mew," Mew meeooow meeeeeeeoow, me me meeeoow

with curiosity.
meow meeooooow.




"Indeed," Baloo began, "I am no more than the old and
"Meeoow," Meeow meeow, "M me me meow meow mew mew mew

sometimes very foolish Teacher of the Law to the Seeonee
meeeeeoow meow meoooow Meeooow me mew Mew me mew Meeeoow

wolf-cubs, and Bagheera here--"
meow-meow, mew Meeeeeow meow--"




"Is Bagheera," said the Black Panther, and his jaws shut with
"Me Meeeooow," meow mew Meoow Meeeeow, mew mew meow meow meow

a snap, for he did not believe in being humble.  "The trouble is
m meow, mew me mew mew meeeoow me meoow meeeow.  "Mew meoooow me

this, Kaa.  Those nut-stealers and pickers of palm leaves have
meow, Mew.  Meeow mew-meeoooow mew meeeoow me meow meeeow meow

stolen away our man-cub of whom thou hast perhaps heard."
meeoow meow mew mew-mew me meow meow meow meeooow meoow."




"I heard some news from Ikki (his quills make him
"M meeow meow meow meow Meow (mew meeeow meow mew

presumptuous) of a man-thing that was entered into a wolf pack,
meeeeoooooow) me m mew-meeow meow mew meoooow meow m meow meow,

but I did not believe.  Ikki is full of stories half heard and
mew M mew mew meeooow.  Meow me meow me meeeoow meow meeow mew

very badly told."
meow meoow meow."




"But it is true.  He is such a man-cub as never was," said
"Mew me me meow.  Me me meow m mew-mew me meeow mew," meow

Baloo.  "The best and wisest and boldest of man-cubs--my own
Meeow.  "Mew meow mew meeeow mew meeeoow me mew-meow--me mew

pupil, who shall make the name of Baloo famous through all the
meoow, mew meoow meow mew meow me Meoow meeoow meeooow mew mew

jungles; and besides, I--we--love him, Kaa."
meeeoow; mew meeooow, M--me--meow mew, Mew."




"Ts!  Ts!" said Kaa, weaving his head to and fro.  "I also
"Me!  Me!" meow Mew, meeeeow mew meow me mew mew.  "M meow

have known what love is.  There are tales I could tell that--"
meow meoow meow meow me.  Meeow mew meeow M meoow meow meow--"




"That need a clear night when we are all well fed to praise
"Meow meow m meeow meoow meow me mew mew meow mew me meeoow

properly," said Bagheera quickly.  "Our man-cub is in the hands of
meeeeeow," meow Meeoooow meoooow.  "Mew mew-mew me me mew meeow me

the Bandar-log now, and we know that of all the Jungle-People they
mew Meeoow-mew mew, mew me meow meow me mew mew Meooow-Meeoow meow

fear Kaa alone."
meow Mew meoow."




"They fear me alone.  They have good reason," said Kaa.
"Meow meow me meeow.  Meow meow meow meeeow," meow Mew.

"Chattering, foolish, vain--vain, foolish, and chattering, are
"Meeeeoooow, meeeoow, meow--meow, meeeoow, mew meeeooooow, mew

the monkeys.  But a man-thing in their hands is in no good luck.
mew meeeeow.  Mew m mew-meoow me meoow meeow me me me meow meow.

They grow tired of the nuts they pick, and throw them down.  They
Meow meow meeow me mew meow meow meow, mew meoow meow meow.  Meow

carry a branch half a day, meaning to do great things with it, and
meoow m meeeow meow m mew, meeooow me me meoow meooow meow me, mew

then they snap it in two.  That man-thing is not to be envied.
meow meow meow me me mew.  Meow mew-meoow me mew me me meooow.

They called me also--`yellow fish' was it not?"
Meow meooow me meow--`meooow meow' mew me mew?"




"Worm--worm--earth-worm," said Bagheera, "as well as other
"Meow--meow--meoow-meow," meow Meeeeoow, "me meow me meeow

things which I cannot now say for shame."
meeeow meeow M meeeow mew mew mew meeow."




"We must remind them to speak well of their master.  Aaa-ssp!
"Me meow meeeow meow me meoow meow me meoow meooow.  Mew-mew!

We must help their wandering memories.  Now, whither went they
Me meow meow meoow meeeeeoow meeeeeow.  Mew, meeooow meow meow

with the cub?"
meow mew mew?"




"The jungle alone knows.  Toward the sunset, I believe," said
"Mew meooow meoow meeow.  Meeoow mew meeoow, M meeeeow," meow

Baloo.  "We had thought that thou wouldst know, Kaa."
Meoow.  "Me mew meoooow meow meow meoooow meow, Mew."




"I?  How?  I take them when they come in my way, but I do not
"M?  Mew?  M meow meow meow meow meow me me mew, mew M me mew

hunt the Bandar-log, or frogs--or green scum on a water-hole,
meow mew Meeoow-mew, me meeow--me meeow meow me m meeow-meow,

for that matter."
mew meow meeoow."




"Up, Up!  Up, Up!  Hillo!  Illo!  Illo, look up, Baloo of the
"Me, Me!  Me, Me!  Meoow!  Meow!  Meow, meow me, Meoow me mew

Seeonee Wolf Pack!"
Meeooow Meow Meow!"




Baloo looked up to see where the voice came from, and there
Meeow meeoow me me mew meoow mew meeow meow meow, mew meoow

was Rann the Kite, sweeping down with the sun shining on the
mew Meow mew Meow, meooooow meow meow mew mew meeooow me mew

upturned flanges of his wings.  It was near Rann's bedtime, but he
meooooow meeeoow me mew meoow.  Me mew meow Meow'm meeooow, mew me

had ranged all over the jungle looking for the Bear and had missed
mew meooow mew meow mew meeeow meeooow mew mew Meow mew mew meeoow

him in the thick foliage.
mew me mew meeow meeooow.




"What is it?" said Baloo.
"Meow me me?" meow Meeow.




"I have seen Mowgli among the Bandar-log.  He bade me tell
"M meow meow Meeeow meeow mew Meeeow-mew.  Me meow me meow

you.  I watched.  The Bandar-log have taken him beyond the river
mew.  M meeeoow.  Mew Meeoow-mew meow meeow mew meooow mew meoow

to the monkey city--to the Cold Lairs.  They may stay there for
me mew meooow meow--me mew Meow Meoow.  Meow mew meow meeow mew

a night, or ten nights, or an hour.  I have told the bats to watch
m meoow, me mew meooow, me me meow.  M meow meow mew meow me meoow

through the dark time.  That is my message.  Good hunting, all you
meeeeow mew meow meow.  Meow me me meeeeow.  Meow meoooow, mew mew

below!"
meoow!"




"Full gorge and a deep sleep to you, Rann," cried Bagheera.
"Meow meeow mew m meow meoow me mew, Meow," meoow Meeeeeow.

"I will remember thee in my next kill, and put aside the head for
"M meow meeeeoow meow me me meow meow, mew mew meeow mew meow mew

thee alone, O best of kites!"
meow meeow, M meow me meoow!"




"It is nothing.  It is nothing.  The boy held the Master Word.
"Me me meeeoow.  Me me meeeeow.  Mew mew meow mew Meeoow Meow.

I could have done no less," and Rann circled up again to his
M meeow meow meow me meow," mew Meow meeeoow me meoow me mew

roost.
meeow.




"He has not forgotten to use his tongue," said Baloo with a
"Me mew mew meeooooow me mew mew meooow," meow Meoow meow m

chuckle of pride.  "To think of one so young remembering the
meoooow me meeow.  "Me meoow me mew me meeow meeooooooow mew

Master Word for the birds too while he was being pulled across
Meooow Meow mew mew meoow mew meeow me mew meoow meeoow meeoow

trees!"
meoow!"




"It was most firmly driven into him," said Bagheera.  "But I
"Me mew meow meeeow meeoow meow mew," meow Meooooow.  "Mew M

am proud of him, and now we must go to the Cold Lairs."
me meeow me mew, mew mew me meow me me mew Meow Meeow."




They all knew where that place was, but few of the Jungle
Meow mew meow meeow meow meeow mew, mew mew me mew Meeeow

People ever went there, because what they called the Cold Lairs
Meeoow meow meow meoow, meeooow meow meow meooow mew Meow Meeow

was an old deserted city, lost and buried in the jungle, and
mew me mew meeeeeow meow, meow mew meeoow me mew meeeow, mew

beasts seldom use a place that men have once used.  The wild boar
meeeow meeeow mew m meoow meow mew meow meow meow.  Mew meow meow

will, but the hunting tribes do not.  Besides, the monkeys lived
meow, mew mew meeeeow meeeow me mew.  Meeeeow, mew meoooow meoow

there as much as they could be said to live anywhere, and no
meoow me meow me meow meoow me meow me meow meeeeoow, mew me

self-respecting animal would come within eyeshot of it except in
meow-meeoooooow meeoow meeow meow meeoow meeeoow me me meeoow me

times of drought, when the half-ruined tanks and reservoirs held a
meoow me meeeoow, meow mew meow-meeeow meeow mew meeoooooow meow m

little water.
meooow meoow.




"It is half a night's journey--at full speed," said
"Me me meow m meoow'm meeeeow--me meow meoow," meow

Bagheera, and Baloo looked very serious.  "I will go as fast as I
Meooooow, mew Meoow meooow meow meeeeow.  "M meow me me meow me M

can," he said anxiously.
mew," me meow meeeeeeow.




"We dare not wait for thee.  Follow, Baloo.  We must go on the
"Me meow mew meow mew meow.  Meeoow, Meoow.  Me meow me me mew

quick-foot--Kaa and I."
meoow-meow--Mew mew M."




"Feet or no feet, I can keep abreast of all thy four," said
"Meow me me meow, M mew meow meoooow me mew mew meow," meow

Kaa shortly.  Baloo made one effort to hurry, but had to sit down
Mew meeooow.  Meeow meow mew meeoow me meoow, mew mew me mew meow

panting, and so they left him to come on later, while Bagheera
meeeeow, mew me meow meow mew me meow me meoow, meoow Meeeeoow

hurried forward, at the quick panther-canter.  Kaa said nothing,
meeeeow meeeeow, me mew meoow meeeoow-meooow.  Mew meow meoooow,

but, strive as Bagheera might, the huge Rock-python held level
mew, meeeow me Meeoooow meeow, mew meow Meow-meooow meow meeow

with him.  When they came to a hill stream, Bagheera gained,
meow mew.  Meow meow meow me m meow meeeow, Meeeooow meooow,

because he bounded across while Kaa swam, his head and two feet of
meeeoow me meeeeow meooow meeow Mew meow, mew meow mew mew meow me

his neck clearing the water, but on level ground Kaa made up the
mew meow meeoooow mew meeow, mew me meeow meeoow Mew meow me mew

distance.
meeeeoow.




"By the Broken Lock that freed me," said Bagheera, when
"Me mew Meeeow Meow meow meoow me," meow Meooooow, meow

twilight had fallen, "thou art no slow goer!"
meooooow mew meooow, "meow mew me meow meow!"




"I am hungry," said Kaa.  "Besides, they called me speckled
"M me meeoow," meow Mew.  "Meeeoow, meow meeeow me meeeooow

frog."
meow."




"Worm--earth-worm, and yellow to boot."
"Meow--meeow-meow, mew meeeow me meow."




"All one.  Let us go on," and Kaa seemed to pour himself along
"Mew mew.  Mew me me me," mew Mew meeeow me meow meeooow meeow

the ground, finding the shortest road with his steady eyes, and
mew meeeow, meoooow mew meeeeoow meow meow mew meooow meow, mew

keeping to it.
meoooow me me.




In the Cold Lairs the Monkey-People were not thinking of
Me mew Meow Meoow mew Meooow-Meeeow meow mew meeeeoow me

Mowgli's friends at all.  They had brought the boy to the Lost
Meooow'm meeeeow me mew.  Meow mew meeeoow mew mew me mew Meow

City, and were very much pleased with themselves for the time.
Meow, mew meow meow meow meeeeow meow meeoooooow mew mew meow.

Mowgli had never seen an Indian city before, and though this was
Meeeow mew meeow meow me Meeoow meow meeeow, mew meeeow meow mew

almost a heap of ruins it seemed very wonderful and splendid.
meooow m meow me meoow me meeoow meow meeeeeeow mew meooooow.

Some king had built it long ago on a little hill.  You could still
Meow meow mew meoow me meow mew me m meeeow meow.  Mew meoow meeow

trace the stone causeways that led up to the ruined gates where
meoow mew meoow meeooooow meow mew me me mew meeeow meoow meoow

the last splinters of wood hung to the worn, rusted hinges.  Trees
mew meow meeeoooow me meow meow me mew meow, meeeow meeeow.  Meeow

had grown into and out of the walls; the battlements were tumbled
mew meeow meow mew mew me mew meoow; mew meeeeeeeeow meow meeooow

down and decayed, and wild creepers hung out of the windows of the
meow mew meeooow, mew meow meeeeoow meow mew me mew meeeeow me mew

towers on the walls in bushy hanging clumps.
meooow me mew meoow me meoow meeooow meooow.




A great roofless palace crowned the hill, and the marble of
M meoow meeeooow meooow meoooow mew meow, mew mew meeeow me

the courtyards and the fountains was split, and stained with red
mew meeeooooow mew mew meeooooow mew meoow, mew meeooow meow mew

and green, and the very cobblestones in the courtyard where the
mew meoow, mew mew meow meeeeeeeeoow me mew meeeeeoow meeow mew

king's elephants used to live had been thrust up and apart by
meow'm meeeoooow meow me meow mew meow meeeow me mew meoow me

grasses and young trees.  From the palace you could see the rows
meeeoow mew meeow meoow.  Meow mew meeoow mew meeow mew mew meow

and rows of roofless houses that made up the city looking like
mew meow me meeeeoow meeeow meow meow me mew meow meoooow meow

empty honeycombs filled with blackness; the shapeless block of
meoow meeeeeeoow meeoow meow meoooooow; mew meeeoooow meeow me

stone that had been an idol in the square where four roads met;
meeow meow mew meow me meow me mew meeeow meeow meow meeow mew;

the pits and dimples at street corners where the public wells once
mew meow mew meeooow me meooow meoooow meoow mew meeoow meoow meow

stood, and the shattered domes of temples with wild figs sprouting
meoow, mew mew meeooooow meoow me meoooow meow meow meow meoooooow

on their sides.  The monkeys called the place their city, and
me meoow meeow.  Mew meeeoow meeoow mew meoow meeow meow, mew

pretended to despise the Jungle-People because they lived in the
meoooooow me meeeoow mew Meeeow-Meooow meeeoow meow meeow me mew

forest.  And yet they never knew what the buildings were made for
meooow.  Mew mew meow meoow meow meow mew meeeoooow meow meow mew

nor how to use them.  They would sit in circles on the hall of the
mew mew me mew meow.  Meow meoow mew me meoooow me mew meow me mew

king's council chamber, and scratch for fleas and pretend to be
meow'm meeooow meoooow, mew meeeoow mew meeow mew meoooow me me

men; or they would run in and out of the roofless houses and
mew; me meow meoow mew me mew mew me mew meeeeeow meeoow mew

collect pieces of plaster and old bricks in a corner, and forget
meeeoow meeoow me meeeoow mew mew meeoow me m meooow, mew meooow

where they had hidden them, and fight and cry in scuffling crowds,
meeow meow mew meooow meow, mew meeow mew mew me meeooooow meeeow,

and then break off to play up and down the terraces of the king's
mew meow meoow mew me meow me mew meow mew meeoooow me mew meow'm

garden, where they would shake the rose trees and the oranges in
meeoow, meeow meow meeow meoow mew meow meeow mew mew meeooow me

sport to see the fruit and flowers fall.  They explored all the
meoow me mew mew meeow mew meeeeow meow.  Meow meeeeoow mew mew

passages and dark tunnels in the palace and the hundreds of little
meeeeoow mew meow meeooow me mew meeoow mew mew meooooow me meeeow

dark rooms, but they never remembered what they had seen and what
meow meoow, mew meow meeow meeeeeeoow meow meow mew meow mew meow

they had not; and so drifted about in ones and twos or crowds
meow mew mew; mew me meeeeow meoow me meow mew meow me meooow

telling each other that they were doing as men did.  They drank at
meeeoow meow meoow meow meow meow meoow me mew mew.  Meow meeow me

the tanks and made the water all muddy, and then they fought over
mew meoow mew meow mew meoow mew meeow, mew meow meow meooow meow

it, and then they would all rush together in mobs and shout:
me, mew meow meow meeow mew meow meooooow me meow mew meeow:

"There is no one in the jungle so wise and good and clever and
"Meoow me me mew me mew meeoow me meow mew meow mew meeoow mew

strong and gentle as the Bandar-log."  Then all would begin again
meeoow mew meooow me mew Meeoow-mew."  Meow mew meoow meeow meoow

till they grew tired of the city and went back to the tree-tops,
meow meow meow meoow me mew meow mew meow meow me mew meow-meow,

hoping the Jungle-People would notice them.
meeoow mew Meeoow-Meeoow meeow meooow meow.




Mowgli, who had been trained under the Law of the Jungle, did
Meeoow, mew mew meow meeooow meeow mew Mew me mew Meeoow, mew

not like or understand this kind of life.  The monkeys dragged him
mew meow me meeeeoooow meow meow me meow.  Mew meeeoow meeooow mew

into the Cold Lairs late in the afternoon, and instead of going to
meow mew Meow Meoow meow me mew meeeeooow, mew meeeeow me meeow me

sleep, as Mowgli would have done after a long journey, they joined
meoow, me Meeoow meoow meow meow meeow m meow meoooow, meow meeeow

hands and danced about and sang their foolish songs.  One of the
meeow mew meeoow meoow mew meow meeow meoooow meeow.  Mew me mew

monkeys made a speech and told his companions that Mowgli's
meeooow meow m meeoow mew meow mew meeeeeeeow meow Meeoow'm

capture marked a new thing in the history of the Bandar-log, for
meeooow meooow m mew meoow me mew meeeoow me mew Meeeow-mew, mew

Mowgli was going to show them how to weave sticks and canes
Meeeow mew meeow me meow meow mew me meoow meooow mew meoow

together as a protection against rain and cold.  Mowgli picked up
meeeeeow me m meeoooooow meoooow meow mew meow.  Meooow meeeow me

some creepers and began to work them in and out, and the monkeys
meow meeeeeow mew meoow me meow meow me mew mew, mew mew meeeoow

tried to imitate; but in a very few minutes they lost interest and
meoow me meeeeow; mew me m meow mew meeeeow meow meow meeeeeow mew

began to pull their friends' tails or jump up and down on all
meoow me meow meoow meeeoow' meeow me meow me mew meow me mew

fours, coughing.
meeow, meooooow.




"I wish to eat," said Mowgli.  "I am a stranger in this part
"M meow me mew," meow Meooow.  "M me m meeeeeow me meow meow

of the jungle.  Bring me food, or give me leave to hunt here."
me mew meooow.  Meoow me meow, me meow me meoow me meow meow."




Twenty or thirty monkeys bounded away to bring him nuts and
Meeoow me meooow meeeeow meeeoow meow me meeow mew meow mew

wild pawpaws.  But they fell to fighting on the road, and it was
meow meeeoow.  Mew meow meow me meeeeeow me mew meow, mew me mew

too much trouble to go back with what was left of the fruit.
mew meow meeeoow me me meow meow meow mew meow me mew meeow.

Mowgli was sore and angry as well as hungry, and he roamed through
Meeoow mew meow mew meoow me meow me meeeow, mew me meeoow meeooow

the empty city giving the Strangers' Hunting Call from time to
mew meoow meow meooow mew Meeeeooow' Meeeeow Meow meow meow me

time, but no one answered him, and Mowgli felt that he had reached
meow, mew me mew meooooow mew, mew Meeoow meow meow me mew meeooow

a very bad place indeed.  "All that Baloo has said about the
m meow mew meeow meooow.  "Mew meow Meeow mew meow meeow mew

Bandar-log is true," he thought to himself.  "They have no Law, no
Meeeow-mew me meow," me meeooow me meeooow.  "Meow meow me Mew, me

Hunting Call, and no leaders--nothing but foolish words and
Meeeoow Meow, mew me meeooow--meoooow mew meoooow meoow mew

little picking thievish hands.  So if I am starved or killed here,
meeoow meeooow meeeeoow meeow.  Me me M me meeeoow me meooow meow,

it will be all my own fault.  But I must try to return to my own
me meow me mew me mew meoow.  Mew M meow mew me meeeow me me mew

jungle.  Baloo will surely beat me, but that is better than
meeoow.  Meoow meow meeeow meow me, mew meow me meeoow meow

chasing silly rose leaves with the Bandar-log."
meeooow meeow meow meooow meow mew Meooow-mew."




No sooner had he walked to the city wall than the monkeys
Me meeeow mew me meeeow me mew meow meow meow mew meoooow

pulled him back, telling him that he did not know how happy he
meeeow mew meow, meeeoow mew meow me mew mew meow mew meoow me

was, and pinching him to make him grateful.  He set his teeth and
mew, mew meooooow mew me meow mew meeoooow.  Me mew mew meeow mew

said nothing, but went with the shouting monkeys to a terrace
meow meeooow, mew meow meow mew meeeeoow meeeoow me m meeeeow

above the red sandstone reservoirs that were half-full of rain
meoow mew mew meeeeooow meeeeeooow meow meow meow-meow me meow

water.  There was a ruined summer-house of white marble in the
meeow.  Meeow mew m meeeow meooow-meoow me meeow meeeow me mew

center of the terrace, built for queens dead a hundred years ago.
meeeow me mew meeeoow, meeow mew meeeow meow m meeooow meoow mew.

The domed roof had half fallen in and blocked up the underground
Mew meeow meow mew meow meeeow me mew meeeoow me mew meeeeeeeeow

passage from the palace by which the queens used to enter.  But
meeeeow meow mew meeeow me meoow mew meooow meow me meeow.  Mew

the walls were made of screens of marble tracery--beautiful
mew meoow meow meow me meoooow me meooow meeeeow--meeeeeeow

milk-white fretwork, set with agates and cornelians and jasper and
meow-meeow meeeeeow, mew meow meeoow mew meooooooow mew meooow mew

lapis lazuli, and as the moon came up behind the hill it shone
meeow meeeow, mew me mew meow meow me meeoow mew meow me meeow

through the open work, casting shadows on the ground like black
meoooow mew meow meow, meeeoow meoooow me mew meeoow meow meoow

velvet embroidery.  Sore, sleepy, and hungry as he was, Mowgli
meeoow meeeeeooow.  Meow, meooow, mew meeeow me me mew, Meeeow

could not help laughing when the Bandar-log began, twenty at a
meoow mew meow meeeeoow meow mew Meeoow-mew meeow, meeoow me m

time, to tell him how great and wise and strong and gentle they
meow, me meow mew mew meeow mew meow mew meeeow mew meooow meow

were, and how foolish he was to wish to leave them.  "We are
meow, mew mew meoooow me mew me meow me meeow meow.  "Me mew

great.  We are free.  We are wonderful.  We are the most wonderful
meeow.  Me mew meow.  Me mew meoooooow.  Me mew mew meow meeeeooow

people in all the jungle!  We all say so, and so it must be true,"
meeoow me mew mew meooow!  Me mew mew me, mew me me meow me meow,"

they shouted.  "Now as you are a new listener and can carry our
meow meeeoow.  "Mew me mew mew m mew meooooow mew mew meoow mew

words back to the Jungle-People so that they may notice us in
meeow meow me mew Meeoow-Meeoow me meow meow mew meeoow me me

future, we will tell you all about our most excellent selves."
meooow, me meow meow mew mew meoow mew meow meeooooow meeeow."

Mowgli made no objection, and the monkeys gathered by hundreds and
Meooow meow me meeooooow, mew mew meoooow meooooow me meeeeeow mew

hundreds on the terrace to listen to their own speakers singing
meeoooow me mew meeeoow me meooow me meeow mew meeoooow meeooow

the praises of the Bandar-log, and whenever a speaker stopped for
mew meeooow me mew Meeeow-mew, mew meooooow m meeeoow meeeoow mew

want of breath they would all shout together: "This is true; we
meow me meeoow meow meoow mew meoow meeeeeow: "Meow me meow; me

all say so."  Mowgli nodded and blinked, and said "Yes" when they
mew mew me."  Meooow meeeow mew meeeeow, mew meow "Mew" meow meow

asked him a question, and his head spun with the noise.  "Tabaqui
meoow mew m meeeooow, mew mew meow meow meow mew meoow.  "Meeeeow

the Jackal must have bitten all these people," he said to himself,
mew Meeoow meow meow meeoow mew meoow meooow," me meow me meeeeow,

"and now they have madness.  Certainly this is dewanee, the
"mew mew meow meow meoooow.  Meeeeeoow meow me meeeeow, mew

madness.  Do they never go to sleep?  Now there is a cloud coming
meeeeow.  Me meow meoow me me meoow?  Mew meoow me m meoow meeoow

to cover that moon.  If it were only a big enough cloud I might
me meeow meow meow.  Me me meow meow m mew meooow meeow M meeow

try to run away in the darkness.  But I am tired."
mew me mew meow me mew meeoooow.  Mew M me meeow."




That same cloud was being watched by two good friends in the
Meow meow meeow mew meeow meeeeow me mew meow meoooow me mew

ruined ditch below the city wall, for Bagheera and Kaa, knowing
meooow meeow meoow mew meow meow, mew Meeeooow mew Mew, meeeeow

well how dangerous the Monkey-People were in large numbers, did
meow mew meeeeeeow mew Meeeow-Meeoow meow me meeow meeeeow, mew

not wish to run any risks.  The monkeys never fight unless they
mew meow me mew mew meeow.  Mew meeeeow meoow meoow meeoow meow

are a hundred to one, and few in the jungle care for those odds.
mew m meeooow me mew, mew mew me mew meooow meow mew meoow meow.




"I will go to the west wall," Kaa whispered, "and come down
"M meow me me mew meow meow," Mew meeooooow, "mew meow meow

swiftly with the slope of the ground in my favor.  They will not
meoooow meow mew meoow me mew meeeow me me meoow.  Meow meow mew

throw themselves upon my back in their hundreds, but--"
meoow meeoooooow meow me meow me meeow meeeeeow, mew--"




"I know it," said Bagheera.  "Would that Baloo were here, but
"M meow me," meow Meeeeoow.  "Meoow meow Meoow meow meow, mew

we must do what we can.  When that cloud covers the moon I shall
me meow me meow me mew.  Meow meow meeow meooow mew meow M meeow

go to the terrace.  They hold some sort of council there over the
me me mew meeeeow.  Meow meow meow meow me meoooow meeow meow mew

boy."
mew."




"Good hunting," said Kaa grimly, and glided away to the west
"Meow meoooow," meow Mew meeeow, mew meeoow meow me mew meow

wall.  That happened to be the least ruined of any, and the big
meow.  Meow meeeeoow me me mew meoow meeeow me mew, mew mew mew

snake was delayed awhile before he could find a way up the stones.
meeow mew meoooow meeeow meeoow me meoow meow m mew me mew meeeow.

The cloud hid the moon, and as Mowgli wondered what would come
Mew meoow mew mew meow, mew me Meeeow meeoooow meow meeow meow

next he heard Bagheera's light feet on the terrace.  The Black
meow me meeow Meeoooow'm meoow meow me mew meeooow.  Mew Meoow

Panther had raced up the slope almost without a sound and was
Meeooow mew meoow me mew meeow meeeow meeeeow m meeow mew mew

striking--he knew better than to waste time in biting--right
meeeooow--me meow meeoow meow me meoow meow me meeeow--meeow

and left among the monkeys, who were seated round Mowgli in
mew meow meeow mew meeeeow, mew meow meeeow meeow Meeeow me

circles fifty and sixty deep.  There was a howl of fright and
meeeeow meoow mew meoow meow.  Meeow mew m meow me meeeow mew

rage, and then as Bagheera tripped on the rolling kicking bodies
meow, mew meow me Meeeooow meeeoow me mew meoooow meeeeow meeoow

beneath him, a monkey shouted: "There is only one here!  Kill him!
meeeoow mew, m meeeow meeeeow: "Meoow me meow mew meow!  Meow mew!

Kill."  A scuffling mass of monkeys, biting, scratching, tearing,
Meow."  M meeeeeoow meow me meeeoow, meooow, meeeooooow, meeeoow,

and pulling, closed over Bagheera, while five or six laid hold of
mew meeooow, meeeow meow Meeeeoow, meeow meow me mew meow meow me

Mowgli, dragged him up the wall of the summerhouse and pushed him
Meeeow, meeeoow mew me mew meow me mew meeeoooooow mew meeoow mew

through the hole of the broken dome.  A man-trained boy would have
meeeeow mew meow me mew meeeow meow.  M mew-meeeeow mew meoow meow

been badly bruised, for the fall was a good fifteen feet, but
meow meeow meeeoow, mew mew meow mew m meow meoooow meow, mew

Mowgli fell as Baloo had taught him to fall, and landed on his
Meeeow meow me Meeow mew meeoow mew me meow, mew meooow me mew

feet.
meow.




"Stay there," shouted the monkeys, "till we have killed thy
"Meow meoow," meeooow mew meeeeow, "meow me meow meooow mew

friends, and later we will play with thee--if the Poison-People
meoooow, mew meeow me meow meow meow meow--me mew Meeoow-Meeoow

leave thee alive."
meoow meow meoow."




"We be of one blood, ye and I," said Mowgli, quickly giving
"Me me me mew meeow, me mew M," meow Meeoow, meeeoow meooow

the Snake's Call.  He could hear rustling and hissing in the
mew Meeow'm Meow.  Me meoow meow meeeeeow mew meeeoow me mew

rubbish all round him and gave the Call a second time, to make
meoooow mew meoow mew mew meow mew Meow m meooow meow, me meow

sure.
meow.




"Even ssso!  Down hoods all!" said half a dozen low voices
"Meow meow!  Meow meoow mew!" meow meow m meoow mew meeeow

(every ruin in India becomes sooner or later a dwelling place of
(meoow meow me Meoow meoooow meeeow me meeow m meeeeoow meoow me

snakes, and the old summerhouse was alive with cobras).  "Stand
meeeow, mew mew mew meoooooooow mew meeow meow meeoow).  "Meoow

still, Little Brother, for thy feet may do us harm."
meoow, Meooow Meoooow, mew mew meow mew me me meow."




Mowgli stood as quietly as he could, peering through the open
Meeoow meoow me meoooow me me meoow, meeooow meeeoow mew meow

work and listening to the furious din of the fight round the Black
meow mew meeooooow me mew meeeoow mew me mew meoow meeow mew Meeow

Panther--the yells and chatterings and scufflings, and
Meoooow--mew meeow mew meeeeeoooow mew meooooooow, mew

Bagheera's deep, hoarse cough as he backed and bucked and twisted
Meeeeeow'm meow, meooow meeow me me meeeow mew meeoow mew meoooow

and plunged under the heaps of his enemies.  For the first time
mew meeeoow meoow mew meeow me mew meoooow.  Mew mew meeow meow

since he was born, Bagheera was fighting for his life.
meoow me mew meow, Meeeeoow mew meooooow mew mew meow.




"Baloo must be at hand; Bagheera would not have come alone,"
"Meoow meow me me meow; Meeoooow meoow mew meow meow meoow,"

Mowgli thought.  And then he called aloud: "To the tank, Bagheera.
Meeeow meeooow.  Mew meow me meeeow meeow: "Me mew meow, Meooooow.

Roll to the water tanks.  Roll and plunge!  Get to the water!"
Meow me mew meoow meeow.  Meow mew meooow!  Mew me mew meeow!"




Bagheera heard, and the cry that told him Mowgli was safe gave
Meeeooow meoow, mew mew mew meow meow mew Meeoow mew meow meow

him new courage.  He worked his way desperately, inch by inch,
mew mew meeeeow.  Me meeoow mew mew meeeeeeeoow, meow me meow,

straight for the reservoirs, halting in silence.  Then from the
meeeeoow mew mew meeeeeeoow, meeeoow me meeeeow.  Meow meow mew

ruined wall nearest the jungle rose up the rumbling war-shout of
meooow meow meoooow mew meeoow meow me mew meooooow mew-meeow me

Baloo.  The old Bear had done his best, but he could not come
Meoow.  Mew mew Meow mew meow mew meow, mew me meeow mew meow

before.  "Bagheera," he shouted, "I am here.  I climb!  I haste!
meeeow.  "Meeeeoow," me meeeeow, "M me meow.  M meoow!  M meeow!

Ahuwora!  The stones slip under my feet!  Wait my coming, O most
Meeeoow!  Mew meeoow meow meeow me meow!  Meow me meeoow, M meow

infamous Bandar-log!"  He panted up the terrace only to disappear
meeeeeow Meeoow-mew!"  Me meooow me mew meeeoow meow me meeeeeeow

to the head in a wave of monkeys, but he threw himself squarely on
me mew meow me m meow me meeeeow, mew me meeow meeeoow meeeooow me

his haunches, and, spreading out his forepaws, hugged as many as
mew meeeeeow, mew, meeeeooow mew mew meeeeeow, meooow me meow me

he could hold, and then began to hit with a regular bat-bat-bat,
me meeow meow, mew meow meeow me mew meow m meeeoow mew-mew-mew,

like the flipping strokes of a paddle wheel.  A crash and a splash
meow mew meeoooow meeeoow me m meeeow meoow.  M meeow mew m meeeow

told Mowgli that Bagheera had fought his way to the tank where the
meow Meeoow meow Meeeeeow mew meeeow mew mew me mew meow meeow mew

monkeys could not follow.  The Panther lay gasping for breath, his
meoooow meoow mew meeeow.  Mew Meeeoow mew meeeeow mew meeeow, mew

head just out of the water, while the monkeys stood three deep on
meow meow mew me mew meeow, meeow mew meeeoow meeow meeow meow me

the red steps, dancing up and down with rage, ready to spring upon
mew mew meoow, meeeeow me mew meow meow meow, meoow me meeeow meow

him from all sides if he came out to help Baloo.  It was then that
mew meow mew meoow me me meow mew me meow Meeow.  Me mew meow meow

Bagheera lifted up his dripping chin, and in despair gave the
Meeeooow meeoow me mew meeoooow meow, mew me meoooow meow mew

Snake's Call for protection--"We be of one blood, ye and I"--
Meeow'm Meow mew meeeeeooow--"Me me me mew meoow, me mew M"--

for he believed that Kaa had turned tail at the last minute.  Even
mew me meooooow meow Mew mew meeoow meow me mew meow meeoow.  Meow

Baloo, half smothered under the monkeys on the edge of the
Meeow, meow meeeeeeow meeow mew meeooow me mew meow me mew

terrace, could not help chuckling as he heard the Black Panther
meoooow, meeow mew meow meeooooow me me meeow mew Meoow Meoooow

asking for help.
meeoow mew meow.




Kaa had only just worked his way over the west wall, landing
Mew mew meow meow meooow mew mew meow mew meow meow, meeooow

with a wrench that dislodged a coping stone into the ditch.  He
meow m meeeow meow meoooooow m meeeow meeow meow mew meoow.  Me

had no intention of losing any advantage of the ground, and coiled
mew me meeeeeeow me meeeow mew meoooooow me mew meeoow, mew meeeow

and uncoiled himself once or twice, to be sure that every foot of
mew meeeooow meeeoow meow me meeow, me me meow meow meeow meow me

his long body was in working order.  All that while the fight with
mew meow meow mew me meeeeow meeow.  Mew meow meoow mew meeow meow

Baloo went on, and the monkeys yelled in the tank round Bagheera,
Meeow meow me, mew mew meeeoow meeeow me mew meow meeow Meeoooow,

and Mang the Bat, flying to and fro, carried the news of the great
mew Meow mew Mew, meooow me mew mew, meoooow mew meow me mew meeow

battle over the jungle, till even Hathi the Wild Elephant
meeeow meow mew meeoow, meow meow Meoow mew Meow Meeeooow

trumpeted, and, far away, scattered bands of the Monkey-Folk woke
meeooooow, mew, mew meow, meoooooow meoow me mew Meeeow-Meow meow

and came leaping along the tree-roads to help their comrades in
mew meow meeeoow meeow mew meow-meeow me meow meeow meooooow me

the Cold Lairs, and the noise of the fight roused all the day
mew Meow Meeow, mew mew meeow me mew meeow meeoow mew mew mew

birds for miles round.  Then Kaa came straight, quickly, and
meoow mew meeow meoow.  Meow Mew meow meeoooow, meeeoow, mew

anxious to kill.  The fighting strength of a python is in the
meeooow me meow.  Mew meeeooow meeeooow me m meooow me me mew

driving blow of his head backed by all the strength and weight of
meeeeow meow me mew meow meooow me mew mew meeeeoow mew meeeow me

his body.  If you can imagine a lance, or a battering ram, or a
mew meow.  Me mew mew meeeeow m meoow, me m meeeeeoow mew, me m

hammer weighing nearly half a ton driven by a cool, quiet mind
meeeow meeeooow meeeow meow m mew meeoow me m meow, meeow meow

living in the handle of it, you can roughly imagine what Kaa was
meeoow me mew meooow me me, mew mew meeooow meeeoow meow Mew mew

like when he fought.  A python four or five feet long can knock a
meow meow me meeoow.  M meooow meow me meow meow meow mew meeow m

man down if he hits him fairly in the chest, and Kaa was thirty
mew meow me me meow mew meooow me mew meeow, mew Mew mew meooow

feet long, as you know.  His first stroke was delivered into the
meow meow, me mew meow.  Mew meoow meeeow mew meeooooow meow mew

heart of the crowd round Baloo.  It was sent home with shut mouth
meeow me mew meeow meeow Meoow.  Me mew meow meow meow meow meeow

in silence, and there was no need of a second.  The monkeys
me meoooow, mew meeow mew me meow me m meeeow.  Mew meeooow

scattered with cries of--"Kaa!  It is Kaa!  Run!  Run!"
meeeeooow meow meeow me--"Mew!  Me me Mew!  Mew!  Mew!"




Generations of monkeys had been scared into good behavior by
Meeeeeeeeow me meeeoow mew meow meooow meow meow meeeooow me

the stories their elders told them of Kaa, the night thief, who
mew meeeoow meoow meeoow meow meow me Mew, mew meeow meoow, mew

could slip along the branches as quietly as moss grows, and steal
meoow meow meoow mew meooooow me meoooow me meow meoow, mew meeow

away the strongest monkey that ever lived; of old Kaa, who could
meow mew meeeeeoow meeoow meow meow meoow; me mew Mew, mew meoow

make himself look so like a dead branch or a rotten stump that the
meow meeeoow meow me meow m meow meeeow me m meeeow meeow meow mew

wisest were deceived, till the branch caught them.  Kaa was
meooow meow meooooow, meow mew meooow meeoow meow.  Mew mew

everything that the monkeys feared in the jungle, for none of them
meooooooow meow mew meoooow meeoow me mew meooow, mew meow me meow

knew the limits of his power, none of them could look him in the
meow mew meeoow me mew meoow, meow me meow meoow meow mew me mew

face, and none had ever come alive out of his hug.  And so they
meow, mew meow mew meow meow meoow mew me mew mew.  Mew me meow

ran, stammering with terror, to the walls and the roofs of the
mew, meeoooooow meow meooow, me mew meoow mew mew meoow me mew

houses, and Baloo drew a deep breath of relief.  His fur was much
meeeow, mew Meoow meow m meow meeoow me meooow.  Mew mew mew meow

thicker than Bagheera's, but he had suffered sorely in the fight.
meeooow meow Meooooow'm, mew me mew meeeeoow meooow me mew meeow.

Then Kaa opened his mouth for the first time and spoke one long
Meow Mew meeeow mew meoow mew mew meeow meow mew meoow mew meow

hissing word, and the far-away monkeys, hurrying to the defense of
meoooow meow, mew mew mew-meow meeeoow, meeoooow me mew meoooow me

the Cold Lairs, stayed where they were, cowering, till the loaded
mew Meow Meoow, meeeow meoow meow meow, meeeeeow, meow mew meeeow

branches bent and crackled under them.  The monkeys on the walls
meeeeoow meow mew meeeeeow meeow meow.  Mew meoooow me mew meeow

and the empty houses stopped their cries, and in the stillness
mew mew meoow meeoow meoooow meeow meeow, mew me mew meeeeeeow

that fell upon the city Mowgli heard Bagheera shaking his wet
meow meow meow mew meow Meeoow meoow Meooooow meeeeow mew mew

sides as he came up from the tank.  Then the clamor broke out
meoow me me meow me meow mew meow.  Meow mew meeeow meoow mew

again.  The monkeys leaped higher up the walls.  They clung around
meeow.  Mew meeeoow meooow meeeow me mew meoow.  Meow meoow meooow

the necks of the big stone idols and shrieked as they skipped
mew meoow me mew mew meoow meeow mew meeeeeow me meow meeeoow

along the battlements, while Mowgli, dancing in the summerhouse,
meoow mew meeooooooow, meeow Meeoow, meoooow me mew meeeeeeooow,

put his eye to the screenwork and hooted owl-fashion between his
mew mew mew me mew meeeooooow mew meooow mew-meeeeow meeeeow mew

front teeth, to show his derision and contempt.
meeow meeow, me meow mew meooooow mew meeeeeow.




"Get the man-cub out of that trap; I can do no more," Bagheera
"Mew mew mew-mew mew me meow meow; M mew me me meow," Meeeeeow

gasped.  "Let us take the man-cub and go.  They may attack again."
meooow.  "Mew me meow mew mew-mew mew me.  Meow mew meooow meeow."




"They will not move till I order them.  Stay you sssso!"  Kaa
"Meow meow mew meow meow M meoow meow.  Meow mew meoow!"  Mew

hissed, and the city was silent once more.  "I could not come
meooow, mew mew meow mew meeeow meow meow.  "M meoow mew meow

before, Brother, but I think I heard thee call"--this was to
meooow, Meeeoow, mew M meoow M meeow meow meow"--meow mew me

Bagheera.
Meeeooow.




"I--I may have cried out in the battle," Bagheera answered.
"M--M mew meow meeow mew me mew meooow," Meeeeoow meeeeeow.

"Baloo, art thou hurt?
"Meoow, mew meow meow?




"I am not sure that they did not pull me into a hundred little
"M me mew meow meow meow mew mew meow me meow m meeeoow meeoow

bearlings," said Baloo, gravely shaking one leg after the other.
meeeeeoow," meow Meoow, meoooow meeeoow mew mew meeow mew meoow.

"Wow! I am sore.  Kaa, we owe thee, I think, our lives--Bagheera
"Mew! M me meow.  Mew, me mew meow, M meoow, mew meoow--Meeoooow

and I."
mew M."




"No matter.  Where is the manling?"
"Me meeoow.  Meeow me mew meoooow?"




"Here, in a trap.  I cannot climb out," cried Mowgli.  The
"Meow, me m meow.  M meeeow meeow mew," meeow Meeoow.  Mew

curve of the broken dome was above his head.
meoow me mew meeoow meow mew meeow mew meow.




"Take him away.  He dances like Mao the Peacock.  He will
"Meow mew meow.  Me meeoow meow Mew mew Meeeoow.  Me meow

crush our young," said the cobras inside.
meoow mew meoow," meow mew meeeow meeoow.




"Hah!" said Kaa with a chuckle, "he has friends everywhere,
"Mew!" meow Mew meow m meeeoow, "me mew meeeoow meeeeeeeow,

this manling.  Stand back, manling.  And hide you, O Poison
meow meeeeow.  Meoow meow, meeooow.  Mew meow mew, M Meeeow

People.  I break down the wall."
Meooow.  M meoow meow mew meow."




Kaa looked carefully till he found a discolored crack in the
Mew meeoow meeeeooow meow me meeow m meeeeoooow meeow me mew

marble tracery showing a weak spot, made two or three light taps
meeeow meeeoow meeeoow m meow meow, meow mew me meeow meeow meow

with his head to get the distance, and then lifting up six feet of
meow mew meow me mew mew meeeooow, mew meow meeooow me mew meow me

his body clear of the ground, sent home half a dozen full-power
mew meow meoow me mew meooow, meow meow meow m meoow meow-meoow

smashing blows, nose-first.  The screen-work broke and fell away
meeoooow meeow, meow-meoow.  Mew meeoow-meow meoow mew meow meow

in a cloud of dust and rubbish, and Mowgli leaped through the
me m meeow me meow mew meoooow, mew Meooow meeoow meeooow mew

opening and flung himself between Baloo and Bagheera--an arm
meeeeow mew meeow meoooow meeeeow Meeow mew Meeeooow--me mew

around each big neck.
meeoow meow mew meow.




"Art thou hurt?" said Baloo, hugging him softly.
"Mew meow meow?" meow Meoow, meeeeow mew meeoow.




"I am sore, hungry, and not a little bruised.  But, oh, they
"M me meow, meeoow, mew mew m meeeow meeooow.  Mew, me, meow

have handled ye grievously, my Brothers!  Ye bleed."
meow meeeeow me meeeeoooow, me Meeeooow!  Me meeow."




"Others also," said Bagheera, licking his lips and looking at
"Meeeow meow," meow Meeeooow, meoooow mew meow mew meeeoow me

the monkey-dead on the terrace and round the tank.
mew meeoow-meow me mew meoooow mew meeow mew meow.




"It is nothing, it is nothing, if thou art safe, oh, my pride
"Me me meoooow, me me meeooow, me meow mew meow, me, me meoow

of all little frogs!" whimpered Baloo.
me mew meeeow meoow!" meoooooow Meoow.




"Of that we shall judge later," said Bagheera, in a dry voice
"Me meow me meeow meeow meeow," meow Meooooow, me m mew meeow

that Mowgli did not at all like.  "But here is Kaa to whom we owe
meow Meooow mew mew me mew meow.  "Mew meow me Mew me meow me mew

the battle and thou owest thy life.  Thank him according to our
mew meeeow mew meow meeow mew meow.  Meeow mew meeeeooow me mew

customs, Mowgli."
meoooow, Meeeow."




Mowgli turned and saw the great Python's head swaying a foot
Meooow meeeow mew mew mew meoow Meeeow'm meow meeeoow m meow

above his own.
meeow mew mew.




"So this is the manling," said Kaa.  "Very soft is his skin,
"Me meow me mew meoooow," meow Mew.  "Meow meow me mew meow,

and he is not unlike the Bandar-log.  Have a care, manling, that I
mew me me mew meooow mew Meooow-mew.  Meow m meow, meoooow, meow M

do not mistake thee for a monkey some twilight when I have newly
me mew meeeeow meow mew m meooow meow meeeeeow meow M meow meoow

changed my coat."
meeooow me meow."




"We be one blood, thou and I," Mowgli answered.  "I take my
"Me me mew meoow, meow mew M," Meeeow meeeeeow.  "M meow me

life from thee tonight.  My kill shall be thy kill if ever thou
meow meow meow meeeoow.  Me meow meeow me mew meow me meow meow

art hungry, O Kaa."
mew meooow, M Mew."




"All thanks, Little Brother," said Kaa, though his eyes
"Mew meooow, Meooow Meeooow," meow Mew, meeoow mew meow

twinkled.  "And what may so bold a hunter kill?  I ask that I may
meeoooow.  "Mew meow mew me meow m meeoow meow?  M mew meow M mew

follow when next he goes abroad."
meeeow meow meow me meow meeeow."




"I kill nothing,--I am too little,--but I drive goats
"M meow meeooow,--M me mew meeeow,--mew M meoow meeow

toward such as can use them.  When thou art empty come to me and
meeoow meow me mew mew meow.  Meow meow mew meeow meow me me mew

see if I speak the truth.  I have some skill in these [he held out
mew me M meeow mew meeow.  M meow meow meoow me meoow [me meow mew

his hands], and if ever thou art in a trap, I may pay the debt
mew meoow], mew me meow meow mew me m meow, M mew mew mew meow

which I owe to thee, to Bagheera, and to Baloo, here.  Good
meoow M mew me meow, me Meeeeoow, mew me Meoow, meow.  Meow

hunting to ye all, my masters."
meeeoow me me mew, me meeooow."




"Well said," growled Baloo, for Mowgli had returned thanks
"Meow meow," meeeoow Meeow, mew Meeoow mew meeeooow meooow

very prettily.  The Python dropped his head lightly for a minute
meow meooooow.  Mew Meeeow meoooow mew meow meeeoow mew m meeeow

on Mowgli's shoulder.  "A brave heart and a courteous tongue,"
me Meeeow'm meeoooow.  "M meeow meoow mew m meeooooow meooow,"

said he.  "They shall carry thee far through the jungle, manling.
meow me.  "Meow meeow meoow meow mew meeeoow mew meooow, meeooow.

But now go hence quickly with thy friends.  Go and sleep, for the
Mew mew me meeow meeooow meow mew meeeeow.  Me mew meoow, mew mew

moon sets, and what follows it is not well that thou shouldst
meow meow, mew meow meeooow me me mew meow meow meow meeeooow

see."
mew."




The moon was sinking behind the hills and the lines of
Mew meow mew meoooow meooow mew meoow mew mew meoow me

trembling monkeys huddled together on the walls and battlements
meeeoooow meeooow meeeeow meeeeoow me mew meoow mew meeeeeeeoow

looked like ragged shaky fringes of things.  Baloo went down to
meeoow meow meeoow meoow meeooow me meeeow.  Meeow meow meow me

the tank for a drink and Bagheera began to put his fur in order,
mew meow mew m meoow mew Meeeeeow meoow me mew mew mew me meeow,

as Kaa glided out into the center of the terrace and brought his
me Mew meeeow mew meow mew meeeow me mew meeooow mew meeeoow mew

jaws together with a ringing snap that drew all the monkeys' eyes
meow meooooow meow m meeeoow meow meow meow mew mew meoooow' meow

upon him.
meow mew.




"The moon sets," he said.  "Is there yet light enough to see?"
"Mew meow meow," me meow.  "Me meeow mew meeow meeeow me mew?"




From the walls came a moan like the wind in the tree-tops--
Meow mew meeow meow m meow meow mew meow me mew meow-meow--

"We see, O Kaa."
"Me mew, M Mew."




"Good.  Begins now the dance--the Dance of the Hunger of
"Meow.  Meeoow mew mew meeow--mew Meoow me mew Meeoow me

Kaa.  Sit still and watch."
Mew.  Mew meeow mew meoow."




He turned twice or thrice in a big circle, weaving his head
Me meeeow meoow me meeeow me m mew meeeow, meeeeow mew meow

from right to left.  Then he began making loops and figures of
meow meeow me meow.  Meow me meoow meeeow meeow mew meeeoow me

eight with his body, and soft, oozy triangles that melted into
meoow meow mew meow, mew meow, meow meeeoooow meow meooow meow

squares and five-sided figures, and coiled mounds, never resting,
meeeoow mew meow-meoow meeooow, mew meeeow meeoow, meoow meeooow,

never hurrying, and never stopping his low humming song.  It grew
meeow meeoooow, mew meeow meeeeoow mew mew meeooow meow.  Me meow

darker and darker, till at last the dragging, shifting coils
meeoow mew meeeow, meow me meow mew meooooow, meeeeeow meoow

disappeared, but they could hear the rustle of the scales.
meeeeeeeeow, mew meow meeow meow mew meooow me mew meeeow.




Baloo and Bagheera stood still as stone, growling in their
Meoow mew Meeeeeow meeow meoow me meoow, meooooow me meoow

throats, their neck hair bristling, and Mowgli watched and
meoooow, meeow meow meow meeeeooow, mew Meeoow meeeoow mew

wondered.
meeeeeow.




"Bandar-log," said the voice of Kaa at last, "can ye stir foot
"Meeeow-mew," meow mew meeow me Mew me meow, "mew me meow meow

or hand without my order?  Speak!"
me meow meeeoow me meeow?  Meeow!"




"Without thy order we cannot stir foot or hand, O Kaa!"
"Meeooow mew meeow me meeoow meow meow me meow, M Mew!"




"Good!  Come all one pace nearer to me."
"Meow!  Meow mew mew meow meeeow me me."




The lines of the monkeys swayed forward helplessly, and Baloo
Mew meoow me mew meeooow meeoow meeeoow meeeeeeeow, mew Meeow

and Bagheera took one stiff step forward with them.
mew Meeeooow meow mew meoow meow meoooow meow meow.




"Nearer!" hissed Kaa, and they all moved again.
"Meeoow!" meeeow Mew, mew meow mew meoow meeow.




Mowgli laid his hands on Baloo and Bagheera to get them away,
Meeeow meow mew meeow me Meeow mew Meeeooow me mew meow meow,

and the two great beasts started as though they had been waked
mew mew mew meeow meeeow meeeeow me meeeow meow mew meow meoow

from a dream.
meow m meoow.




"Keep thy hand on my shoulder," Bagheera whispered.  "Keep it
"Meow mew meow me me meeeeeow," Meeeeeow meeooooow.  "Meow me

there, or I must go back--must go back to Kaa.  Aah!"
meoow, me M meow me meow--meow me meow me Mew.  Mew!"




"It is only old Kaa making circles on the dust," said Mowgli.
"Me me meow mew Mew meeoow meeeeow me mew meow," meow Meeoow.

"Let us go."  And the three slipped off through a gap in the walls
"Mew me me."  Mew mew meoow meoooow mew meeeoow m mew me mew meeow

to the jungle.
me mew meeoow.




"Whoof!" said Baloo, when he stood under the still trees
"Meoow!" meow Meeow, meow me meoow meoow mew meeow meeow

again.  "Never more will I make an ally of Kaa," and he shook
meeow.  "Meoow meow meow M meow me meow me Mew," mew me meoow

himself all over.
meeooow mew meow.




"He knows more than we," said Bagheera, trembling.  "In a
"Me meeow meow meow me," meow Meeeeeow, meeeeeoow.  "Me m

little time, had I stayed, I should have walked down his throat."
meeoow meow, mew M meeeow, M meeeow meow meeeow meow mew meooow."




"Many will walk by that road before the moon rises again,"
"Meow meow meow me meow meow meeeow mew meow meeow meeow,"

said Baloo.  "He will have good hunting--after his own fashion."
meow Meeow.  "Me meow meow meow meeooow--meoow mew mew meeeeow."




"But what was the meaning of it all?" said Mowgli, who did not
"Mew meow mew mew meeeeow me me mew?" meow Meeoow, mew mew mew

know anything of a python's powers of fascination.  "I saw no more
meow meeeeoow me m meooow'm meeoow me meeeoooooow.  "M mew me meow

than a big snake making foolish circles till the dark came.  And
meow m mew meoow meeoow meeooow meeooow meow mew meow meow.  Mew

his nose was all sore.  Ho!  Ho!"
mew meow mew mew meow.  Me!  Me!"




"Mowgli," said Bagheera angrily, "his nose was sore on thy
"Meooow," meow Meooooow meoooow, "mew meow mew meow me mew

account, as my ears and sides and paws, and Baloo's neck and
meeooow, me me meow mew meeow mew meow, mew Meeow'm meow mew

shoulders are bitten on thy account.  Neither Baloo nor Bagheera
meeeeeoow mew meeoow me mew meeeeow.  Meeeoow Meeow mew Meeeeeow

will be able to hunt with pleasure for many days."
meow me meow me meow meow meeoooow mew meow meow."




"It is nothing," said Baloo; "we have the man-cub again."
"Me me meeeoow," meow Meeow; "me meow mew mew-mew meoow."




"True, but he has cost us heavily in time which might have
"Meow, mew me mew meow me meeooow me meow meeow meoow meow

been spent in good hunting, in wounds, in hair--I am half
meow meoow me meow meoooow, me meooow, me meow--M me meow

plucked along my back--and last of all, in honor.  For,
meeeoow meoow me meow--mew meow me mew, me meeow.  Mew,

remember, Mowgli, I, who am the Black Panther, was forced to call
meooooow, Meeoow, M, mew me mew Meoow Meoooow, mew meeoow me meow

upon Kaa for protection, and Baloo and I were both made stupid as
meow Mew mew meeeeeooow, mew Meeow mew M meow meow meow meeeow me

little birds by the Hunger Dance.  All this, man-cub, came of thy
meeoow meeow me mew Meeoow Meeow.  Mew meow, mew-mew, meow me mew

playing with the Bandar-log."
meeeoow meow mew Meeoow-mew."




"True, it is true," said Mowgli sorrowfully.  "I am an evil
"Meow, me me meow," meow Meeeow meeeeooooow.  "M me me meow

man-cub, and my stomach is sad in me."
mew-mew, mew me meoooow me mew me me."




"Mf!  What says the Law of the Jungle, Baloo?"
"Me!  Meow meow mew Mew me mew Meeoow, Meeow?"




Baloo did not wish to bring Mowgli into any more trouble, but
Meoow mew mew meow me meoow Meooow meow mew meow meeooow, mew

he could not tamper with the Law, so he mumbled: "Sorrow never
me meeow mew meeoow meow mew Mew, me me meeooow: "Meeeow meoow

stays punishment.  But remember, Bagheera, he is very little."
meeow meeeooooow.  Mew meeeeeow, Meeoooow, me me meow meeoow."




"I will remember.  But he has done mischief, and blows must be
"M meow meeeeeow.  Mew me mew meow meeeeeow, mew meoow meow me

dealt now.  Mowgli, hast thou anything to say?"
meeow mew.  Meooow, meow meow meooooow me mew?"




"Nothing.  I did wrong.  Baloo and thou are wounded.  It is
"Meeooow.  M mew meoow.  Meeow mew meow mew meeeeow.  Me me

just."
meow."




Bagheera gave him half a dozen love-taps from a panther's
Meeeooow meow mew meow m meoow meow-meow meow m meoooow'm

point of view (they would hardly have waked one of his own cubs),
meeow me meow (meow meoow meeeow meow meeow mew me mew mew meow),

but for a seven-year-old boy they amounted to as severe a beating
mew mew m meeow-meow-mew mew meow meooooow me me meeeow m meeeeow

as you could wish to avoid.  When it was all over Mowgli sneezed,
me mew meoow meow me meoow.  Meow me mew mew meow Meeoow meeeoow,

and picked himself up without a word.
mew meeeow meeeeow me meeeeow m meow.




"Now," said Bagheera, "jump on my back, Little Brother, and we
"Mew," meow Meooooow, "meow me me meow, Meeoow Meoooow, mew me

will go home."
meow me meow."




One of the beauties of Jungle Law is that punishment settles
Mew me mew meeeooow me Meooow Mew me meow meeeeeeoow meeooow

all scores.  There is no nagging afterward.
mew meeeow.  Meeow me me meeooow meeeeeoow.




Mowgli laid his head down on Bagheera's back and slept so
Meeeow meow mew meow meow me Meooooow'm meow mew meoow me

deeply that he never waked when he was put down in the home-cave.
meeoow meow me meoow meeow meow me mew mew meow me mew meow-meow.







                    Road-Song of the Bandar-Log
                    Meow-Meow me mew Meeoow-Mew




     Here we go in a flung festoon,
     Meow me me me m meeow meeeoow,

     Half-way up to the jealous moon!
     Meow-mew me me mew meeeeow meow!

     Don't you envy our pranceful bands?
     Mew'm mew meow mew meeeeeeow meoow?

     Don't you wish you had extra hands?
     Mew'm mew meow mew mew meoow meoow?

     Wouldn't you like if your tails were--so--
     Meeoow'm mew meow me meow meoow meow--me--

     Curved in the shape of a Cupid's bow?
     Meooow me mew meoow me m Meeow'm mew?

         Now you're angry, but--never mind,
         Mew mew'me meeow, mew--meoow meow,

         Brother, thy tail hangs down behind!
         Meoooow, mew meow meeow meow meeeow!




     Here we sit in a branchy row,
     Meow me mew me m meoooow mew,

     Thinking of beautiful things we know;
     Meeeeoow me meeeeeeow meooow me meow;

     Dreaming of deeds that we mean to do,
     Meeeooow me meoow meow me meow me me,

     All complete, in a minute or two--
     Mew meeeooow, me m meooow me mew--

     Something noble and wise and good,
     Meeeoooow meoow mew meow mew meow,

     Done by merely wishing we could.
     Meow me meeoow meeooow me meoow.

         We've forgotten, but--never mind,
         Me'me meeeoooow, mew--meeow meow,

         Brother, thy tail hangs down behind!
         Meeeoow, mew meow meeow meow meooow!




     All the talk we ever have heard
     Mew mew meow me meow meow meeow

     Uttered by bat or beast or bird--
     Meeeeow me mew me meeow me meow--

     Hide or fin or scale or feather--
     Meow me mew me meeow me meeeoow--

     Jabber it quickly and all together!
     Meeoow me meeooow mew mew meeeeoow!

     Excellent!  Wonderful!  Once again!
     Meeooooow!  Meoooooow!  Meow meeow!




     Now we are talking just like men!
     Mew me mew meeeeow meow meow mew!

        Let's pretend we are ... never mind,
        Mew'm meeeeow me mew ... meeow meow,

        Brother, thy tail hangs down behind!
        Meeeoow, mew meow meoow meow meeoow!

        This is the way of the Monkey-kind.
        Meow me mew mew me mew Meeeow-meow.




    Then join our leaping lines that scumfish through the pines,
    Meow meow mew meeooow meoow meow meeeeoow meeeeow mew meoow,

    That rocket by where, light and high, the wild grape swings.
    Meow meeeow me meoow, meeow mew meow, mew meow meeow meooow.

    By the rubbish in our wake, and the noble noise we make,
    Me mew meoooow me mew meow, mew mew meoow meoow me meow,

    Be sure, be sure, we're going to do some splendid things!
    Me meow, me meow, me'me meoow me me meow meeeeeow meeoow!







                          "Tiger! Tiger!"
                          "Meeow! Meeow!"




             What of the hunting, hunter bold?
             Meow me mew meoooow, meeeow meow?

                Brother, the watch was long and cold.
                Meeeoow, mew meeow mew meow mew meow.

             What of the quarry ye went to kill?
             Meow me mew meeeow me meow me meow?

                Brother, he crops in the jungle still.
                Meeooow, me meoow me mew meooow meoow.

             Where is the power that made your pride?
             Meoow me mew meeow meow meow meow meeow?

                Brother, it ebbs from my flank and side.
                Meoooow, me meow meow me meoow mew meow.

             Where is the haste that ye hurry by?
             Meoow me mew meoow meow me meoow me?

                Brother, I go to my lair--to die.
                Meeooow, M me me me meow--me mew.




Now we must go back to the first tale.  When Mowgli left the
Mew me meow me meow me mew meeow meow.  Meow Meooow meow mew

wolf's cave after the fight with the Pack at the Council Rock, he
meow'm meow meoow mew meoow meow mew Meow me mew Meeooow Meow, me

went down to the plowed lands where the villagers lived, but he
meow meow me mew meooow meoow meoow mew meoooooow meoow, mew me

would not stop there because it was too near to the jungle, and he
meoow mew meow meoow meeeoow me mew mew meow me mew meeeow, mew me

knew that he had made at least one bad enemy at the Council.  So
meow meow me mew meow me meeow mew mew meoow me mew Meeeoow.  Me

he hurried on, keeping to the rough road that ran down the valley,
me meeeoow me, meeooow me mew meoow meow meow mew meow mew meooow,

and followed it at a steady jog-trot for nearly twenty miles, till
mew meeeeeow me me m meeoow mew-meow mew meeeow meooow meoow, meow

he came to a country that he did not know.  The valley opened out
me meow me m meeooow meow me mew mew meow.  Mew meeoow meooow mew

into a great plain dotted over with rocks and cut up by ravines.
meow m meeow meoow meooow meow meow meoow mew mew me me meeooow.

At one end stood a little village, and at the other the thick
Me mew mew meeow m meeeow meeooow, mew me mew meoow mew meeow

jungle came down in a sweep to the grazing-grounds, and stopped
meeeow meow meow me m meeow me mew meeeoow-meeeeow, mew meoooow

there as though it had been cut off with a hoe.  All over the
meeow me meeoow me mew meow mew mew meow m mew.  Mew meow mew

plain, cattle and buffaloes were grazing, and when the little boys
meeow, meeoow mew meeooooow meow meeeeow, mew meow mew meooow meow

in charge of the herds saw Mowgli they shouted and ran away, and
me meooow me mew meeow mew Meooow meow meoooow mew mew meow, mew

the yellow pariah dogs that hang about every Indian village
mew meeeow meeoow meow meow meow meeow meoow Meeeow meeooow

barked.  Mowgli walked on, for he was feeling hungry, and when he
meeeow.  Meeoow meeoow me, mew me mew meeooow meeoow, mew meow me

came to the village gate he saw the big thorn-bush that was drawn
meow me mew meoooow meow me mew mew mew meoow-meow meow mew meoow

up before the gate at twilight, pushed to one side.
me meeeow mew meow me meeoooow, meooow me mew meow.




"Umph!" he said, for he had come across more than one such
"Meow!" me meow, mew me mew meow meeoow meow meow mew meow

barricade in his night rambles after things to eat.  "So men are
meeeoooow me mew meoow meeeoow meeow meooow me mew.  "Me mew mew

afraid of the People of the Jungle here also."  He sat down by the
meeoow me mew Meooow me mew Meeeow meow meow."  Me mew meow me mew

gate, and when a man came out he stood up, opened his mouth, and
meow, mew meow m mew meow mew me meoow me, meeoow mew meeow, mew

pointed down it to show that he wanted food.  The man stared, and
meoooow meow me me meow meow me meeoow meow.  Mew mew meooow, mew

ran back up the one street of the village shouting for the priest,
mew meow me mew mew meeoow me mew meeooow meeeooow mew mew meooow,

who was a big, fat man dressed in white, with a red and yellow
mew mew m mew, mew mew meeeeow me meoow, meow m mew mew meeeow

mark on his forehead.  The priest came to the gate, and with him
meow me mew meeeeoow.  Mew meeoow meow me mew meow, mew meow mew

at least a hundred people, who stared and talked and shouted and
me meeow m meeeeow meooow, mew meeeow mew meeeow mew meeooow mew

pointed at Mowgli.
meeooow me Meooow.




"They have no manners, these Men Folk," said Mowgli to
"Meow meow me meeeoow, meoow Mew Meow," meow Meeeow me

himself.  "Only the gray ape would behave as they do."  So he
meeeeow.  "Meow mew meow mew meeow meeoow me meow me."  Me me

threw back his long hair and frowned at the crowd.
meoow meow mew meow meow mew meeeeow me mew meoow.




"What is there to be afraid of?" said the priest.  "Look at
"Meow me meeow me me meeoow me?" meow mew meooow.  "Meow me

the marks on his arms and legs.  They are the bites of wolves.  He
mew meoow me mew meow mew meow.  Meow mew mew meeow me meeeow.  Me

is but a wolf-child run away from the jungle."
me mew m meow-meoow mew meow meow mew meeoow."




Of course, in playing together, the cubs had often nipped
Me meooow, me meeeeow meeeooow, mew meow mew meeow meeoow

Mowgli harder than they intended, and there were white scars all
Meeoow meooow meow meow meeeooow, mew meeow meow meeow meoow mew

over his arms and legs.  But he would have been the last person in
meow mew meow mew meow.  Mew me meeow meow meow mew meow meeeow me

the world to call these bites, for he knew what real biting meant.
mew meoow me meow meoow meeow, mew me meow meow meow meeoow meoow.




"Arre! Arre!" said two or three women together.  "To be bitten
"Meow! Meow!" meow mew me meoow meeow meeeeeow.  "Me me meooow

by wolves, poor child!  He is a handsome boy.  He has eyes like
me meeoow, meow meeow!  Me me m meeeooow mew.  Me mew meow meow

red fire.  By my honor, Messua, he is not unlike thy boy that was
mew meow.  Me me meeow, Meeoow, me me mew meooow mew mew meow mew

taken by the tiger."
meeow me mew meoow."




"Let me look," said a woman with heavy copper rings on her
"Mew me meow," meow m meeow meow meoow meooow meoow me mew

wrists and ankles, and she peered at Mowgli under the palm of her
meooow mew meeoow, mew mew meeoow me Meooow meoow mew meow me mew

hand.  "Indeed he is not.  He is thinner, but he has the very look
meow.  "Meeeow me me mew.  Me me meeeoow, mew me mew mew meow meow

of my boy."
me me mew."




The priest was a clever man, and he knew that Messua was wife
Mew meeoow mew m meooow mew, mew me meow meow Meeoow mew meow

to the richest villager in the place.  So he looked up at the sky
me mew meeooow meooooow me mew meeow.  Me me meooow me me mew mew

for a minute and said solemnly: "What the jungle has taken the
mew m meooow mew meow meeoooow: "Meow mew meeoow mew meeow mew

jungle has restored.  Take the boy into thy house, my sister, and
meeoow mew meeeooow.  Meow mew mew meow mew meoow, me meooow, mew

forget not to honor the priest who sees so far into the lives of
meooow mew me meeow mew meeoow mew meow me mew meow mew meeow me

men."
mew."




"By the Bull that bought me," said Mowgli to himself, "but all
"Me mew Meow meow meooow me," meow Meeoow me meoooow, "mew mew

this talking is like another looking-over by the Pack!  Well, if I
meow meeeeow me meow meeeeow meeeeow-meow me mew Meow!  Meow, me M

am a man, a man I must become."
me m mew, m mew M meow meooow."




The crowd parted as the woman beckoned Mowgli to her hut,
Mew meeow meeeow me mew meeow meeeeeow Meooow me mew mew,

where there was a red lacquered bedstead, a great earthen grain
meeow meeow mew m mew meeeeooow meeeooow, m meoow meeeoow meeow

chest with funny raised patterns on it, half a dozen copper
meeow meow meoow meeoow meeeeeow me me, meow m meeow meeeow

cooking pots, an image of a Hindu god in a little alcove, and on
meeeeow meow, me meoow me m Meeow mew me m meeoow meeeow, mew me

the wall a real looking glass, such as they sell at the country
mew meow m meow meeeoow meeow, meow me meow meow me mew meeeeow

fairs.
meoow.




She gave him a long drink of milk and some bread, and then she
Mew meow mew m meow meoow me meow mew meow meeow, mew meow mew

laid her hand on his head and looked into his eyes; for she
meow mew meow me mew meow mew meooow meow mew meow; mew mew

thought perhaps that he might be her real son come back from the
meeooow meoooow meow me meeow me mew meow mew meow meow meow mew

jungle where the tiger had taken him.  So she said, "Nathoo, O
meooow meeow mew meeow mew meeow mew.  Me mew meow, "Meeoow, M

Nathoo!"  Mowgli did not show that he knew the name.  "Dost thou
Meeoow!"  Meeoow mew mew meow meow me meow mew meow.  "Meow meow

not remember the day when I gave thee thy new shoes?"  She touched
mew meeeooow mew mew meow M meow meow mew mew meoow?"  Mew meeeeow

his foot, and it was almost as hard as horn.  "No," she said
mew meow, mew me mew meeeow me meow me meow.  "Me," mew meow

sorrowfully, "those feet have never worn shoes, but thou art very
meoooooooow, "meoow meow meow meeow meow meeow, mew meow mew meow

like my Nathoo, and thou shalt be my son."
meow me Meooow, mew meow meeow me me mew."




Mowgli was uneasy, because he had never been under a roof
Meeoow mew meeeow, meeeeow me mew meeow meow meeow m meow

before.  But as he looked at the thatch, he saw that he could tear
meooow.  Mew me me meooow me mew meeoow, me mew meow me meoow meow

it out any time if he wanted to get away, and that the window had
me mew mew meow me me meeeow me mew meow, mew meow mew meooow mew

no fastenings.  "What is the good of a man," he said to himself at
me meooooooow.  "Meow me mew meow me m mew," me meow me meoooow me

last, "if he does not understand man's talk?  Now I am as silly
meow, "me me meow mew meeeooooow mew'm meow?  Mew M me me meeow

and dumb as a man would be with us in the jungle.  I must speak
mew meow me m mew meoow me meow me me mew meooow.  M meow meoow

their talk."
meeow meow."




It was not for fun that he had learned while he was with the
Me mew mew mew mew meow me mew meoooow meoow me mew meow mew

wolves to imitate the challenge of bucks in the jungle and the
meooow me meeeoow mew meeeeeeow me meeow me mew meeeow mew mew

grunt of the little wild pig.  So, as soon as Messua pronounced a
meoow me mew meooow meow mew.  Me, me meow me Meooow meeeooooow m

word Mowgli would imitate it almost perfectly, and before dark he
meow Meeoow meeow meeooow me meeeow meeeeooow, mew meeoow meow me

had learned the names of many things in the hut.
mew meoooow mew meeow me meow meeeow me mew mew.




There was a difficulty at bedtime, because Mowgli would not
Meoow mew m meeeeeeeow me meeeoow, meoooow Meeoow meoow mew

sleep under anything that looked so like a panther trap as that
meeow meeow meeeeoow meow meeoow me meow m meoooow meow me meow

hut, and when they shut the door he went through the window.
mew, mew meow meow meow mew meow me meow meeooow mew meeeow.

"Give him his will," said Messua's husband.  "Remember he can
"Meow mew mew meow," meow Meeeow'm meeooow.  "Meeeeoow me mew

never till now have slept on a bed.  If he is indeed sent in the
meoow meow mew meow meeow me m mew.  Me me me meeeow meow me mew

place of our son he will not run away."
meoow me mew mew me meow mew mew meow."




So Mowgli stretched himself in some long, clean grass at the
Me Meeoow meeeeeoow meeeeow me meow meow, meeow meoow me mew

edge of the field, but before he had closed his eyes a soft gray
meow me mew meeow, mew meooow me mew meeoow mew meow m meow meow

nose poked him under the chin.
meow meeow mew meeow mew meow.




"Phew!" said Gray Brother (he was the eldest of Mother Wolf's
"Meow!" meow Meow Meoooow (me mew mew meeeow me Meeeow Meow'm

cubs).  "This is a poor reward for following thee twenty miles.
meow).  "Meow me m meow meooow mew meoooooow meow meeeow meeow.

Thou smellest of wood smoke and cattle--altogether like a man
Meow meeeeoow me meow meoow mew meooow--meeeooooow meow m mew

already.  Wake, Little Brother; I bring news."
meeooow.  Meow, Meeeow Meoooow; M meoow meow."




"Are all well in the jungle?" said Mowgli, hugging him.
"Mew mew meow me mew meooow?" meow Meooow, meeeoow mew.




"All except the wolves that were burned with the Red Flower.
"Mew meeeow mew meooow meow meow meooow meow mew Mew Meeoow.

Now, listen.  Shere Khan has gone away to hunt far off till his
Mew, meeeow.  Meeow Meow mew meow meow me meow mew mew meow mew

coat grows again, for he is badly singed.  When he returns he
meow meoow meoow, mew me me meeow meeoow.  Meow me meoooow me

swears that he will lay thy bones in the Waingunga."
meeeow meow me meow mew mew meoow me mew Meeeeooow."




"There are two words to that.  I also have made a little
"Meoow mew mew meoow me meow.  M meow meow meow m meeeow

promise.  But news is always good.  I am tired to-night,--very
meoooow.  Mew meow me meeeow meow.  M me meeow me-meoow,--meow

tired with new things, Gray Brother,--but bring me the news
meeow meow mew meooow, Meow Meeeeow,--mew meoow me mew meow

always."
meeeow."




"Thou wilt not forget that thou art a wolf?  Men will not make
"Meow meow mew meeeow meow meow mew m meow?  Mew meow mew meow

thee forget?" said Gray Brother anxiously.
meow meeeow?" meow Meow Meeeeow meeeoooow.




"Never.  I will always remember that I love thee and all in
"Meoow.  M meow meooow meooooow meow M meow meow mew mew me

our cave.  But also I will always remember that I have been cast
mew meow.  Mew meow M meow meeoow meeoooow meow M meow meow meow

out of the Pack."
mew me mew Meow."




"And that thou mayest be cast out of another pack.  Men are
"Mew meow meow meeoow me meow mew me meoooow meow.  Mew mew

only men, Little Brother, and their talk is like the talk of frogs
meow mew, Meeoow Meoooow, mew meoow meow me meow mew meow me meeow

in a pond.  When I come down here again, I will wait for thee in
me m meow.  Meow M meow meow meow meoow, M meow meow mew meow me

the bamboos at the edge of the grazing-ground."
mew meoooow me mew meow me mew meeooow-meeeow."




For three months after that night Mowgli hardly ever left the
Mew meeow meeoow meeow meow meeow Meeoow meeeow meow meow mew

village gate, he was so busy learning the ways and customs of men.
meoooow meow, me mew me meow meeeeeow mew meow mew meeeeow me mew.

First he had to wear a cloth round him, which annoyed him
Meoow me mew me meow m meeow meoow mew, meeow meeeeow mew

horribly; and then he had to learn about money, which he did not
meeeeeow; mew meow me mew me meoow meoow meoow, meoow me mew mew

in the least understand, and about plowing, of which he did not
me mew meeow meeeeeeoow, mew meoow meeeeow, me meeow me mew mew

see the use.  Then the little children in the village made him
mew mew mew.  Meow mew meooow meeeooow me mew meeeeow meow mew

very angry.  Luckily, the Law of the Jungle had taught him to keep
meow meoow.  Meeeoow, mew Mew me mew Meeoow mew meeoow mew me meow

his temper, for in the jungle life and food depend on keeping your
mew meeoow, mew me mew meooow meow mew meow meooow me meeooow meow

temper; but when they made fun of him because he would not play
meooow; mew meow meow meow mew me mew meeeeow me meoow mew meow

games or fly kites, or because he mispronounced some word, only
meeow me mew meoow, me meeooow me meoooooooooow meow meow, meow

the knowledge that it was unsportsmanlike to kill little naked
mew meeeoooow meow me mew meeeeeeeoooooow me meow meeeow meoow

cubs kept him from picking them up and breaking them in two.
meow meow mew meow meeeoow meow me mew meeoooow meow me mew.




He did not know his own strength in the least.  In the jungle
Me mew mew meow mew mew meooooow me mew meoow.  Me mew meeeow

he knew he was weak compared with the beasts, but in the village
me meow me mew meow meooooow meow mew meooow, mew me mew meeeeow

people said that he was as strong as a bull.
meooow meow meow me mew me meooow me m meow.




And Mowgli had not the faintest idea of the difference that
Mew Meeoow mew mew mew meeeooow meow me mew meeeeeooow meow

caste makes between man and man.  When the potter's donkey slipped
meeow meeow meeeeow mew mew mew.  Meow mew meooow'm meooow meeeeow

in the clay pit, Mowgli hauled it out by the tail, and helped to
me mew meow mew, Meeoow meeeow me mew me mew meow, mew meooow me

stack the pots for their journey to the market at Khanhiwara.
meeow mew meow mew meeow meeeeow me mew meeeow me Meeeooooow.

That was very shocking, too, for the potter is a low-caste man,
Meow mew meow meeeooow, mew, mew mew meeoow me m mew-meoow mew,

and his donkey is worse.  When the priest scolded him, Mowgli
mew mew meooow me meeow.  Meow mew meooow meoooow mew, Meeeow

threatened to put him on the donkey too, and the priest told
meooooooow me mew mew me mew meeeow mew, mew mew meeeow meow

Messua's husband that Mowgli had better be set to work as soon as
Meooow'm meoooow meow Meeoow mew meeeow me mew me meow me meow me

possible; and the village head-man told Mowgli that he would have
meooooow; mew mew meeeoow meow-mew meow Meeeow meow me meoow meow

to go out with the buffaloes next day, and herd them while they
me me mew meow mew meoooooow meow mew, mew meow meow meeow meow

grazed.  No one was more pleased than Mowgli; and that night,
meeeow.  Me mew mew meow meeeoow meow Meeoow; mew meow meeow,

because he had been appointed a servant of the village, as it
meeeoow me mew meow meeeeeoow m meeooow me mew meeeeow, me me

were, he went off to a circle that met every evening on a masonry
meow, me meow mew me m meooow meow mew meoow meeeeow me m meoooow

platform under a great fig-tree.  It was the village club, and the
meeeeoow meeow m meoow mew-meow.  Me mew mew meeooow meow, mew mew

head-man and the watchman and the barber, who knew all the gossip
meow-mew mew mew meeeeeow mew mew meeeow, mew meow mew mew meeeow

of the village, and old Buldeo, the village hunter, who had a
me mew meeooow, mew mew Meeoow, mew meoooow meeeow, mew mew m

Tower musket, met and smoked.  The monkeys sat and talked in the
Meeow meeeow, mew mew meooow.  Mew meeeeow mew mew meeoow me mew

upper branches, and there was a hole under the platform where a
meeow meeeooow, mew meeow mew m meow meeow mew meeeeeow meoow m

cobra lived, and he had his little platter of milk every night
meeow meoow, mew me mew mew meeoow meeooow me meow meoow meoow

because he was sacred; and the old men sat around the tree and
meoooow me mew meooow; mew mew mew mew mew meooow mew meow mew

talked, and pulled at the big huqas (the water-pipes) till far
meeoow, mew meeoow me mew mew meoow (mew meeow-meoow) meow mew

into the night.  They told wonderful tales of gods and men and
meow mew meoow.  Meow meow meeeeeeow meeow me meow mew mew mew

ghosts; and Buldeo told even more wonderful ones of the ways of
meeeow; mew Meeeow meow meow meow meeeeooow meow me mew meow me

beasts in the jungle, till the eyes of the children sitting
meeoow me mew meooow, meow mew meow me mew meeoooow meeeeow

outside the circle bulged out of their heads.  Most of the tales
meeeoow mew meooow meooow mew me meoow meoow.  Meow me mew meeow

were about animals, for the jungle was always at their door.  The
meow meoow meoooow, mew mew meooow mew meeeow me meoow meow.  Mew

deer and the wild pig grubbed up their crops, and now and again
meow mew mew meow mew meeeoow me meeow meoow, mew mew mew meoow

the tiger carried off a man at twilight, within sight of the
mew meoow meeooow mew m mew me meeeooow, meooow meoow me mew

village gates.
meeooow meoow.




Mowgli, who naturally knew something about what they were
Meooow, mew meeeeeeow meow meeeeooow meoow meow meow meow

talking of, had to cover his face not to show that he was
meeeeow me, mew me meeow mew meow mew me meow meow me mew

laughing, while Buldeo, the Tower musket across his knees, climbed
meooooow, meeow Meeoow, mew Meeow meooow meooow mew meeow, meeeeow

on from one wonderful story to another, and Mowgli's shoulders
me meow mew meeooooow meoow me meeeoow, mew Meooow'm meeeeooow

shook.
meeow.




Buldeo was explaining how the tiger that had carried away
Meeoow mew meeeeoooow mew mew meoow meow mew meeeeow meow

Messua's son was a ghost-tiger, and his body was inhabited by the
Meeoow'm mew mew m meoow-meeow, mew mew meow mew meoooooow me mew

ghost of a wicked, old money-lender, who had died some years ago.
meeow me m meooow, mew meoow-meooow, mew mew meow meow meoow mew.

"And I know that this is true," he said, "because Purun Dass
"Mew M meow meow meow me meow," me meow, "meeeoow Meeow Meow

always limped from the blow that he got in a riot when his account
meeeow meeoow meow mew meow meow me mew me m meow meow mew meeeoow

books were burned, and the tiger that I speak of he limps, too,
meoow meow meooow, mew mew meeow meow M meoow me me meoow, mew,

for the tracks of his pads are unequal."
mew mew meeeow me mew meow mew meeeeow."




"True, true, that must be the truth," said the gray-beards,
"Meow, meow, meow meow me mew meeow," meow mew meow-meeoow,

nodding together.
meeooow meooooow.




"Are all these tales such cobwebs and moon talk?" said Mowgli.
"Mew mew meoow meoow meow meeooow mew meow meow?" meow Meeoow.

"That tiger limps because he was born lame, as everyone knows.  To
"Meow meeow meoow meoooow me mew meow meow, me meooooow meoow.  Me

talk of the soul of a money-lender in a beast that never had the
meow me mew meow me m meoow-meeoow me m meeow meow meeow mew mew

courage of a jackal is child's talk."
meeooow me m meooow me meeow'm meow."




Buldeo was speechless with surprise for a moment, and the
Meeeow mew meeeeeeoow meow meeoooow mew m meooow, mew mew

head-man stared.
meow-mew meeeow.




"Oho!  It is the jungle brat, is it?" said Buldeo.  "If thou
"Mew!  Me me mew meeeow meow, me me?" meow Meeoow.  "Me meow

art so wise, better bring his hide to Khanhiwara, for the
mew me meow, meeoow meeow mew meow me Meeeooooow, mew mew

Government has set a hundred rupees on his life.  Better still,
Meeeeeooow mew mew m meeeoow meeeow me mew meow.  Meooow meoow,

talk not when thy elders speak."
meow mew meow mew meeoow meoow."




Mowgli rose to go.  "All the evening I have lain here
Meeeow meow me me.  "Mew mew meeeoow M meow meow meow

listening," he called back over his shoulder, "and, except once or
meeeoooow," me meeoow meow meow mew meeeeoow, "mew, meeoow meow me

twice, Buldeo has not said one word of truth concerning the
meeow, Meooow mew mew meow mew meow me meoow meeeeeooow mew

jungle, which is at his very doors.  How, then, shall I believe
meeoow, meeow me me mew meow meeow.  Mew, meow, meoow M meoooow

the tales of ghosts and gods and goblins which he says he has
mew meeow me meooow mew meow mew meeooow meoow me meow me mew

seen?"
meow?"




"It is full time that boy went to herding," said the head-man,
"Me me meow meow meow mew meow me meeeoow," meow mew meow-mew,

while Buldeo puffed and snorted at Mowgli's impertinence.
meeow Meeeow meeeow mew meeooow me Meeoow'm meeeooooooow.




The custom of most Indian villages is for a few boys to take
Mew meeeow me meow Meeoow meooooow me mew m mew meow me meow

the cattle and buffaloes out to graze in the early morning, and
mew meooow mew meeeeeeow mew me meeow me mew meeow meeeoow, mew

bring them back at night.  The very cattle that would trample a
meoow meow meow me meoow.  Mew meow meooow meow meeow meoooow m

white man to death allow themselves to be banged and bullied and
meoow mew me meoow meoow meeeeeooow me me meeeow mew meeooow mew

shouted at by children that hardly come up to their noses.  So
meeeeow me me meeoooow meow meooow meow me me meeow meeow.  Me

long as the boys keep with the herds they are safe, for not even
meow me mew meow meow meow mew meeow meow mew meow, mew mew meow

the tiger will charge a mob of cattle.  But if they straggle to
mew meeow meow meeeow m mew me meeeow.  Mew me meow meeeeeow me

pick flowers or hunt lizards, they are sometimes carried off.
meow meeeoow me meow meeooow, meow mew meoooooow meoooow mew.

Mowgli went through the village street in the dawn, sitting on the
Meeeow meow meeeeow mew meeeeow meooow me mew meow, meeeeow me mew

back of Rama, the great herd bull.  The slaty-blue buffaloes, with
meow me Meow, mew meeow meow meow.  Mew meoow-meow meeeeeoow, meow

their long, backward-sweeping horns and savage eyes, rose out
meeow meow, meeeeeow-meeoooow meoow mew meeoow meow, meow mew

their byres, one by one, and followed him, and Mowgli made it very
meoow meeow, mew me mew, mew meeoooow mew, mew Meooow meow me meow

clear to the children with him that he was the master.  He beat
meeow me mew meooooow meow mew meow me mew mew meeeow.  Me meow

the buffaloes with a long, polished bamboo, and told Kamya, one of
mew meeooooow meow m meow, meeeeeow meeoow, mew meow Meeow, mew me

the boys, to graze the cattle by themselves, while he went on with
mew meow, me meeow mew meooow me meooooooow, meeow me meow me meow

the buffaloes, and to be very careful not to stray away from the
mew meoooooow, mew me me meow meeeoow mew me meeow meow meow mew

herd.
meow.




An Indian grazing ground is all rocks and scrub and tussocks
Me Meeoow meeooow meeoow me mew meeow mew meeow mew meeeooow

and little ravines, among which the herds scatter and disappear.
mew meeeow meeeeow, meoow meoow mew meoow meeooow mew meeeeeeow.

The buffaloes generally keep to the pools and muddy places, where
Mew meeeeooow meoooooow meow me mew meoow mew meoow meeeow, meoow

they lie wallowing or basking in the warm mud for hours.  Mowgli
meow mew meoooooow me meeeeow me mew meow mew mew meeow.  Meeeow

drove them on to the edge of the plain where the Waingunga came
meeow meow me me mew meow me mew meoow meeow mew Meeooooow meow

out of the jungle; then he dropped from Rama's neck, trotted off
mew me mew meooow; meow me meeeoow meow Meow'm meow, meoooow mew

to a bamboo clump, and found Gray Brother.  "Ah," said Gray
me m meeeow meoow, mew meoow Meow Meeeeow.  "Me," meow Meow

Brother, "I have waited here very many days.  What is the meaning
Meeeeow, "M meow meeeow meow meow meow meow.  Meow me mew meeeeow

of this cattle-herding work?"
me meow meeoow-meeeeow meow?"




"It is an order," said Mowgli.  "I am a village herd for a
"Me me me meeow," meow Meeoow.  "M me m meeooow meow mew m

while.  What news of Shere Khan?"
meoow.  Meow meow me Meeow Meow?"




"He has come back to this country, and has waited here a long
"Me mew meow meow me meow meeeoow, mew mew meeoow meow m meow

time for thee.  Now he has gone off again, for the game is scarce.
meow mew meow.  Mew me mew meow mew meeow, mew mew meow me meooow.

But he means to kill thee."
Mew me meoow me meow meow."




"Very good," said Mowgli.  "So long as he is away do thou or
"Meow meow," meow Meooow.  "Me meow me me me meow me meow me

one of the four brothers sit on that rock, so that I can see thee
mew me mew meow meeeeoow mew me meow meow, me meow M mew mew meow

as I come out of the village.  When he comes back wait for me in
me M meow mew me mew meeeeow.  Meow me meoow meow meow mew me me

the ravine by the dhak tree in the center of the plain.  We need
mew meooow me mew meow meow me mew meeeow me mew meeow.  Me meow

not walk into Shere Khan's mouth."
mew meow meow Meoow Meow'm meeow."




Then Mowgli picked out a shady place, and lay down and slept
Meow Meooow meeeow mew m meeow meeow, mew mew meow mew meeow

while the buffaloes grazed round him.  Herding in India is one of
meoow mew meoooooow meooow meeow mew.  Meoooow me Meeow me mew me

the laziest things in the world.  The cattle move and crunch, and
mew meeeoow meeoow me mew meoow.  Mew meeoow meow mew meeeow, mew

lie down, and move on again, and they do not even low.  They only
mew meow, mew meow me meeow, mew meow me mew meow mew.  Meow meow

grunt, and the buffaloes very seldom say anything, but get down
meeow, mew mew meeeeeeow meow meeeow mew meeeeeow, mew mew meow

into the muddy pools one after another, and work their way into
meow mew meoow meoow mew meoow meeeoow, mew meow meeow mew meow

the mud till only their noses and staring china-blue eyes show
mew mew meow meow meeow meoow mew meeeeow meeow-meow meow meow

above the surface, and then they lie like logs.  The sun makes the
meoow mew meeeoow, mew meow meow mew meow meow.  Mew mew meoow mew

rocks dance in the heat, and the herd children hear one kite
meoow meeow me mew meow, mew mew meow meeoooow meow mew meow

(never any more) whistling almost out of sight overhead, and they
(meeow mew meow) meeeeooow meeoow mew me meoow meeeooow, mew meow

know that if they died, or a cow died, that kite would sweep down,
meow meow me meow meow, me m mew meow, meow meow meeow meoow meow,

and the next kite miles away would see him drop and follow, and
mew mew meow meow meoow meow meeow mew mew meow mew meeoow, mew

the next, and the next, and almost before they were dead there
mew meow, mew mew meow, mew meeeow meeoow meow meow meow meeow

would be a score of hungry kites come out of nowhere.  Then they
meoow me m meeow me meeoow meoow meow mew me meeeeow.  Meow meow

sleep and wake and sleep again, and weave little baskets of dried
meeow mew meow mew meoow meoow, mew meeow meooow meeeeow me meoow

grass and put grasshoppers in them; or catch two praying mantises
meoow mew mew meooooooooow me meow; me meeow mew meeooow meeoooow

and make them fight; or string a necklace of red and black jungle
mew meow meow meeow; me meooow m meeeeoow me mew mew meoow meeoow

nuts; or watch a lizard basking on a rock, or a snake hunting a
meow; me meeow m meeoow meeeoow me m meow, me m meeow meoooow m

frog near the wallows.  Then they sing long, long songs with odd
meow meow mew meeeoow.  Meow meow meow meow, meow meeow meow mew

native quavers at the end of them, and the day seems longer than
meeeow meeeoow me mew mew me meow, mew mew mew meeow meeoow meow

most people's whole lives, and perhaps they make a mud castle with
meow meeeow'm meoow meoow, mew meoooow meow meow m mew meooow meow

mud figures of men and horses and buffaloes, and put reeds into
mew meeooow me mew mew meooow mew meeeoooow, mew mew meeow meow

the men's hands, and pretend that they are kings and the figures
mew mew'm meoow, mew meeeoow meow meow mew meoow mew mew meeeeow

are their armies, or that they are gods to be worshiped.  Then
mew meoow meeeow, me meow meow mew meow me me meeeeeoow.  Meow

evening comes and the children call, and the buffaloes lumber up
meeeoow meoow mew mew meeeeoow meow, mew mew meeooooow meeoow me

out of the sticky mud with noises like gunshots going off one
mew me mew meeoow mew meow meooow meow meeeooow meeow mew mew

after the other, and they all string across the gray plain back to
meoow mew meoow, mew meow mew meeeow meeoow mew meow meeow meow me

the twinkling village lights.
mew meeeeeeow meoooow meeoow.




Day after day Mowgli would lead the buffaloes out to their
Mew meeow mew Meeoow meoow meow mew meeooooow mew me meeow

wallows, and day after day he would see Gray Brother's back a mile
meeooow, mew mew meoow mew me meeow mew Meow Meoooow'm meow m meow

and a half away across the plain (so he knew that Shere Khan had
mew m meow meow meeoow mew meoow (me me meow meow Meoow Meow mew

not come back), and day after day he would lie on the grass
mew meow meow), mew mew meoow mew me meoow mew me mew meoow

listening to the noises round him, and dreaming of old days in the
meeooooow me mew meeeow meeow mew, mew meeoooow me mew meow me mew

jungle.  If Shere Khan had made a false step with his lame paw up
meeeow.  Me Meoow Meow mew meow m meeow meow meow mew meow mew me

in the jungles by the Waingunga, Mowgli would have heard him in
me mew meeeeow me mew Meoooooow, Meeoow meoow meow meoow mew me

those long, still mornings.
meeow meow, meeow meeeeeow.




At last a day came when he did not see Gray Brother at the
Me meow m mew meow meow me mew mew mew Meow Meeooow me mew

signal place, and he laughed and headed the buffaloes for the
meooow meoow, mew me meeooow mew meeoow mew meoooooow mew mew

ravine by the dhk tree, which was all covered with golden-red
meeoow me mew mew meow, meeow mew mew meeooow meow meeoow-mew

flowers.  There sat Gray Brother, every bristle on his back
meeeeow.  Meeow mew Meow Meeooow, meoow meoooow me mew meow

lifted.
meooow.




"He has hidden for a month to throw thee off thy guard.  He
"Me mew meeoow mew m meeow me meoow meow mew mew meoow.  Me

crossed the ranges last night with Tabaqui, hot-foot on thy
meoooow mew meeeow meow meeow meow Meeeoow, mew-meow me mew

trail," said the Wolf, panting.
meoow," meow mew Meow, meoooow.




Mowgli frowned.  "I am not afraid of Shere Khan, but Tabaqui
Meeeow meeeeow.  "M me mew meooow me Meoow Meow, mew Meeeoow

is very cunning."
me meow meeeoow."




"Have no fear," said Gray Brother, licking his lips a little.
"Meow me meow," meow Meow Meoooow, meeeeow mew meow m meooow.

"I met Tabaqui in the dawn.  Now he is telling all his wisdom to
"M mew Meoooow me mew meow.  Mew me me meeeeow mew mew meeoow me

the kites, but he told me everything before I broke his back.
mew meoow, mew me meow me meeeeeooow meooow M meeow mew meow.

Shere Khan's plan is to wait for thee at the village gate this
Meeow Meow'm meow me me meow mew meow me mew meoooow meow meow

evening--for thee and for no one else.  He is lying up now, in
meeeeow--mew meow mew mew me mew meow.  Me me meeow me mew, me

the big dry ravine of the Waingunga."
mew mew mew meeeow me mew Meeeoooow."




"Has he eaten today, or does he hunt empty?" said Mowgli, for
"Mew me meoow meeow, me meow me meow meoow?" meow Meeeow, mew

the answer meant life and death to him.
mew meooow meeow meow mew meoow me mew.




"He killed at dawn,--a pig,--and he has drunk too.
"Me meeoow me meow,--m mew,--mew me mew meoow mew.

Remember, Shere Khan could never fast, even for the sake of
Meeeooow, Meoow Meow meeow meoow meow, meow mew mew meow me

revenge."
meeeeow."




"Oh!  Fool, fool!  What a cub's cub it is!  Eaten and drunk
"Me!  Meow, meow!  Meow m mew'm mew me me!  Meeow mew meoow

too, and he thinks that I shall wait till he has slept!  Now,
mew, mew me meooow meow M meeow meow meow me mew meeow!  Mew,

where does he lie up?  If there were but ten of us we might pull
meeow meow me mew me?  Me meeow meow mew mew me me me meeow meow

him down as he lies.  These buffaloes will not charge unless they
mew meow me me meow.  Meoow meoooooow meow mew meeeow meeeow meow

wind him, and I cannot speak their language.  Can we get behind
meow mew, mew M meeeow meoow meoow meeeooow.  Mew me mew meeeow

his track so that they may smell it?"
mew meeow me meow meow mew meoow me?"




"He swam far down the Waingunga to cut that off," said Gray
"Me meow mew meow mew Meeeeeoow me mew meow mew," meow Meow

Brother.
Meeooow.




"Tabaqui told him that, I know.  He would never have thought
"Meeeeow meow mew meow, M meow.  Me meeow meoow meow meeeeow

of it alone."  Mowgli stood with his finger in his mouth,
me me meoow."  Meeeow meoow meow mew meeeow me mew meeow,

thinking.  "The big ravine of the Waingunga.  That opens out on
meeoooow.  "Mew mew meeoow me mew Meeeeeeow.  Meow meeow mew me

the plain not half a mile from here.  I can take the herd round
mew meeow mew meow m meow meow meow.  M mew meow mew meow meoow

through the jungle to the head of the ravine and then sweep down
meeeoow mew meeeow me mew meow me mew meooow mew meow meoow meow

--but he would slink out at the foot.  We must block that end.
--mew me meoow meeow mew me mew meow.  Me meow meeow meow mew.

Gray Brother, canst thou cut the herd in two for me?"
Meow Meeeeow, meeow meow mew mew meow me mew mew me?"




"Not I, perhaps--but I have brought a wise helper."  Gray
"Mew M, meeeoow--mew M meow meeeoow m meow meeoow."  Meow

Brother trotted off and dropped into a hole.  Then there lifted up
Meoooow meeeeow mew mew meeeoow meow m meow.  Meow meeow meeeow me

a huge gray head that Mowgli knew well, and the hot air was filled
m meow meow meow meow Meooow meow meow, mew mew mew mew mew meeoow

with the most desolate cry of all the jungle--the hunting howl
meow mew meow meooooow mew me mew mew meeeow--mew meoooow meow

of a wolf at midday.
me m meow me meooow.




"Akela!  Akela!" said Mowgli, clapping his hands.  "I might
"Meoow!  Meeow!" meow Meooow, meeeeeow mew meeow.  "M meeow

have known that thou wouldst not forget me.  We have a big work in
meow meoow meow meow meoooow mew meeeow me.  Me meow m mew meow me

hand.  Cut the herd in two, Akela.  Keep the cows and calves
meow.  Mew mew meow me mew, Meoow.  Meow mew meow mew meeoow

together, and the bulls and the plow buffaloes by themselves."
meooooow, mew mew meeow mew mew meow meeeeeeow me meooooooow."




The two wolves ran, ladies'-chain fashion, in and out of the
Mew mew meooow mew, meooow'-meeow meoooow, me mew mew me mew

herd, which snorted and threw up its head, and separated into two
meow, meeow meoooow mew meoow me mew meow, mew meeeeeoow meow mew

clumps.  In one, the cow-buffaloes stood with their calves in the
meeoow.  Me mew, mew mew-meeeoooow meoow meow meeow meooow me mew

center, and glared and pawed, ready, if a wolf would only stay
meooow, mew meeoow mew meeow, meoow, me m meow meeow meow meow

still, to charge down and trample the life out of him.  In the
meoow, me meeeow meow mew meoooow mew meow mew me mew.  Me mew

other, the bulls and the young bulls snorted and stamped, but
meeow, mew meoow mew mew meoow meoow meeooow mew meeooow, mew

though they looked more imposing they were much less dangerous,
meeoow meow meeeow meow meeoooow meow meow meow meow meeeeeeow,

for they had no calves to protect.  No six men could have divided
mew meow mew me meeeow me meeeeow.  Me mew mew meeow meow meeeoow

the herd so neatly.
mew meow me meeeow.




"What orders!" panted Akela.  "They are trying to join again."
"Meow meeeow!" meeoow Meeow.  "Meow mew meooow me meow meoow."




Mowgli slipped on to Rama's back.  "Drive the bulls away to
Meeeow meeooow me me Meow'm meow.  "Meeow mew meoow meow me

the left, Akela.  Gray Brother, when we are gone, hold the cows
mew meow, Meoow.  Meow Meoooow, meow me mew meow, meow mew meow

together, and drive them into the foot of the ravine."
meeoooow, mew meoow meow meow mew meow me mew meooow."




"How far?" said Gray Brother, panting and snapping.
"Mew mew?" meow Meow Meeeoow, meoooow mew meeeeoow.




"Till the sides are higher than Shere Khan can jump," shouted
"Meow mew meoow mew meeeow meow Meeow Meow mew meow," meoooow

Mowgli.  "Keep them there till we come down."  The bulls swept off
Meeoow.  "Meow meow meoow meow me meow meow."  Mew meoow meoow mew

as Akela bayed, and Gray Brother stopped in front of the cows.
me Meoow meeow, mew Meow Meeeoow meeeoow me meeow me mew meow.

They charged down on him, and he ran just before them to the foot
Meow meeeeow meow me mew, mew me mew meow meeeow meow me mew meow

of the ravine, as Akela drove the bulls far to the left.
me mew meeoow, me Meoow meoow mew meeow mew me mew meow.




"Well done!  Another charge and they are fairly started.
"Meow meow!  Meeooow meeeow mew meow mew meeeow meeeoow.

Careful, now--careful, Akela.  A snap too much and the bulls
Meeeoow, mew--meeeeow, Meoow.  M meow mew meow mew mew meoow

will charge.  Hujah!  This is wilder work than driving black-buck.
meow meooow.  Meoow!  Meow me meeeow meow meow meoooow meoow-meow.

Didst thou think these creatures could move so swiftly?"  Mowgli
Meoow meow meoow meeow meeeeeoow meeow meow me meoooow?"  Meeoow

called.
meeoow.




"I have--have hunted these too in my time," gasped Akela in
"M meow--meow meeeow meoow mew me me meow," meeeow Meoow me

the dust.  "Shall I turn them into the jungle?"
mew meow.  "Meeow M meow meow meow mew meeeow?"




"Ay!  Turn.  Swiftly turn them!  Rama is mad with rage.  Oh,
"Me!  Meow.  Meeeoow meow meow!  Meow me mew meow meow.  Me,

if I could only tell him what I need of him to-day."
me M meeow meow meow mew meow M meow me mew me-mew."




The bulls were turned, to the right this time, and crashed
Mew meeow meow meeeow, me mew meeow meow meow, mew meoooow

into the standing thicket.  The other herd children, watching with
meow mew meeoooow meeeeow.  Mew meoow meow meeoooow, meeeeeow meow

the cattle half a mile away, hurried to the village as fast as
mew meooow meow m meow meow, meoooow me mew meeeoow me meow me

their legs could carry them, crying that the buffaloes had gone
meoow meow meoow meeow meow, meeeow meow mew meeeeooow mew meow

mad and run away.
mew mew mew meow.




But Mowgli's plan was simple enough.  All he wanted to do was
Mew Meeoow'm meow mew meooow meooow.  Mew me meooow me me mew

to make a big circle uphill and get at the head of the ravine, and
me meow m mew meeeow meooow mew mew me mew meow me mew meeeow, mew

then take the bulls down it and catch Shere Khan between the bulls
meow meow mew meeow meow me mew meeow Meoow Meow meoooow mew meoow

and the cows; for he knew that after a meal and a full drink Shere
mew mew meow; mew me meow meow meoow m meow mew m meow meeow Meeow

Khan would not be in any condition to fight or to clamber up the
Meow meeow mew me me mew meeeoooow me meeow me me meeeeow me mew

sides of the ravine.  He was soothing the buffaloes now by voice,
meoow me mew meeoow.  Me mew meeoooow mew meeeoooow mew me meoow,

and Akela had dropped far to the rear, only whimpering once or
mew Meoow mew meeeeow mew me mew meow, meow meeeeeeoow meow me

twice to hurry the rear-guard.  It was a long, long circle, for
meeow me meeow mew meow-meoow.  Me mew m meow, meow meooow, mew

they did not wish to get too near the ravine and give Shere Khan
meow mew mew meow me mew mew meow mew meooow mew meow Meeow Meow

warning.  At last Mowgli rounded up the bewildered herd at the
meeooow.  Me meow Meooow meoooow me mew meeeeeeeow meow me mew

head of the ravine on a grassy patch that sloped steeply down to
meow me mew meeeow me m meeoow meeow meow meeoow meeooow meow me

the ravine itself.  From that height you could see across the tops
mew meeeow meeeow.  Meow meow meeoow mew meoow mew meeoow mew meow

of the trees down to the plain below; but what Mowgli looked at
me mew meeow meow me mew meeow meeow; mew meow Meooow meooow me

was the sides of the ravine, and he saw with a great deal of
mew mew meoow me mew meooow, mew me mew meow m meeow meow me

satisfaction that they ran nearly straight up and down, while the
meooooooooow meow meow mew meeeow meeeeoow me mew meow, meoow mew

vines and creepers that hung over them would give no foothold to a
meoow mew meooooow meow meow meow meow meoow meow me meeeooow me m

tiger who wanted to get out.
meeow mew meeoow me mew mew.




"Let them breathe, Akela," he said, holding up his hand.
"Mew meow meeeoow, Meeow," me meow, meeeeow me mew meow.

"They have not winded him yet.  Let them breathe.  I must tell
"Meow meow mew meeoow mew mew.  Mew meow meoooow.  M meow meow

Shere Khan who comes.  We have him in the trap."
Meoow Meow mew meoow.  Me meow mew me mew meow."




He put his hands to his mouth and shouted down the ravine--
Me mew mew meeow me mew meeow mew meoooow meow mew meooow--

it was almost like shouting down a tunnel--and the echoes jumped
me mew meeeow meow meeeeeow meow m meeeow--mew mew meeeow meeeow

from rock to rock.
meow meow me meow.




After a long time there came back the drawling, sleepy snarl
Meeow m meow meow meoow meow meow mew meeeeeow, meeoow meoow

of a full-fed tiger just wakened.
me m meow-mew meeow meow meeeeow.




"Who calls?" said Shere Khan, and a splendid peacock fluttered
"Mew meeow?" meow Meeow Meow, mew m meeoooow meeeeow meeeoooow

up out of the ravine screeching.
me mew me mew meeoow meeeeoooow.




"I, Mowgli.  Cattle thief, it is time to come to the Council
"M, Meeoow.  Meeoow meoow, me me meow me meow me mew Meoooow

Rock!  Down--hurry them down, Akela!  Down, Rama, down!"
Meow!  Meow--meeow meow meow, Meeow!  Meow, Meow, meow!"




The herd paused for an instant at the edge of the slope, but
Mew meow meeeow mew me meoooow me mew meow me mew meeow, mew

Akela gave tongue in the full hunting-yell, and they pitched over
Meoow meow meeeow me mew meow meeooow-meow, mew meow meeeoow meow

one after the other, just as steamers shoot rapids, the sand and
mew meoow mew meeow, meow me meeeooow meoow meeoow, mew meow mew

stones spurting up round them.  Once started, there was no chance
meooow meeeeoow me meeow meow.  Meow meeeoow, meoow mew me meeoow

of stopping, and before they were fairly in the bed of the ravine
me meeeeoow, mew meeoow meow meow meooow me mew mew me mew meooow

Rama winded Shere Khan and bellowed.
Meow meeoow Meeow Meow mew meooooow.




"Ha!  Ha!" said Mowgli, on his back.  "Now thou knowest!" and
"Me!  Me!" meow Meeeow, me mew meow.  "Mew meow meeooow!" mew

the torrent of black horns, foaming muzzles, and staring eyes
mew meoooow me meoow meeow, meoooow meeeeow, mew meeooow meow

whirled down the ravine just as boulders go down in floodtime; the
meeeoow meow mew meooow meow me meeoooow me meow me meeeeooow; mew

weaker buffaloes being shouldered out to the sides of the ravine
meooow meeooooow meoow meeeeeooow mew me mew meeow me mew meeeow

where they tore through the creepers.  They knew what the business
meoow meow meow meeeoow mew meeeeeow.  Meow meow meow mew meeeooow

was before them--the terrible charge of the buffalo herd against
mew meooow meow--mew meeeeoow meeeow me mew meoooow meow meeeeow

which no tiger can hope to stand.  Shere Khan heard the thunder of
meoow me meoow mew meow me meeow.  Meeow Meow meeow mew meeeeow me

their hoofs, picked himself up, and lumbered down the ravine,
meoow meeow, meooow meoooow me, mew meeoooow meow mew meooow,

looking from side to side for some way of escape, but the walls of
meoooow meow meow me meow mew meow mew me meeoow, mew mew meoow me

the ravine were straight and he had to hold on, heavy with his
mew meeeow meow meeeeeow mew me mew me meow me, meoow meow mew

dinner and his drink, willing to do anything rather than fight.
meeeow mew mew meoow, meoooow me me meeoooow meeeow meow meoow.

The herd splashed through the pool he had just left, bellowing
Mew meow meeeooow meoooow mew meow me mew meow meow, meeeoooow

till the narrow cut rang.  Mowgli heard an answering bellow from
meow mew meeeow mew meow.  Meeeow meeow me meeeeooow meeeow meow

the foot of the ravine, saw Shere Khan turn (the tiger knew if the
mew meow me mew meeeow, mew Meoow Meow meow (mew meeow meow me mew

worst came to the worst it was better to meet the bulls than the
meoow meow me mew meoow me mew meeeow me meow mew meoow meow mew

cows with their calves), and then Rama tripped, stumbled, and went
meow meow meeow meooow), mew meow Meow meeeeow, meeoooow, mew meow

on again over something soft, and, with the bulls at his heels,
me meeow meow meeeoooow meow, mew, meow mew meeow me mew meoow,

crashed full into the other herd, while the weaker buffaloes were
meoooow meow meow mew meoow meow, meoow mew meooow meeeeeeow meow

lifted clean off their feet by the shock of the meeting.  That
meooow meoow mew meeow meow me mew meoow me mew meeeeow.  Meow

charge carried both herds out into the plain, goring and stamping
meooow meoooow meow meeow mew meow mew meoow, meeeow mew meeeooow

and snorting.  Mowgli watched his time, and slipped off Rama's
mew meeoooow.  Meeeow meeeeow mew meow, mew meeeeow mew Meow'm

neck, laying about him right and left with his stick.
meow, meeoow meeow mew meoow mew meow meow mew meoow.




"Quick, Akela!  Break them up.  Scatter them, or they will be
"Meeow, Meoow!  Meeow meow me.  Meeeoow meow, me meow meow me

fighting one another.  Drive them away, Akela.  Hai, Rama!  Hai,
meeeooow mew meeeeow.  Meeow meow meow, Meoow.  Mew, Meow!  Mew,

hai, hai! my children.  Softly now, softly!  It is all over."
mew, mew! me meeeooow.  Meooow mew, meeoow!  Me me mew meow."




Akela and Gray Brother ran to and fro nipping the buffaloes'
Meoow mew Meow Meeeeow mew me mew mew meeeeow mew meeooooow'

legs, and though the herd wheeled once to charge up the ravine
meow, mew meeeow mew meow meoooow meow me meooow me mew meeeow

again, Mowgli managed to turn Rama, and the others followed him to
meeow, Meeeow meeeeow me meow Meow, mew mew meeoow meeeeoow mew me

the wallows.
mew meeeoow.




Shere Khan needed no more trampling.  He was dead, and the
Meoow Meow meooow me meow meeeoooow.  Me mew meow, mew mew

kites were coming for him already.
meoow meow meeeow mew mew meeeoow.




"Brothers, that was a dog's death," said Mowgli, feeling for
"Meeeeeow, meow mew m mew'm meeow," meow Meeoow, meeeeow mew

the knife he always carried in a sheath round his neck now that he
mew meeow me meeoow meoooow me m meeoow meeow mew meow mew meow me

lived with men.  "But he would never have shown fight.  His hide
meoow meow mew.  "Mew me meeow meoow meow meeow meeow.  Mew meow

will look well on the Council Rock.  We must get to work swiftly."
meow meow meow me mew Meeooow Meow.  Me meow mew me meow meoooow."




A boy trained among men would never have dreamed of skinning a
M mew meeooow meoow mew meoow meoow meow meeooow me meooooow m

ten-foot tiger alone, but Mowgli knew better than anyone else how
mew-meow meeow meoow, mew Meooow meow meooow meow meeoow meow mew

an animal's skin is fitted on, and how it can be taken off.  But
me meooow'm meow me meooow me, mew mew me mew me meeow mew.  Mew

it was hard work, and Mowgli slashed and tore and grunted for an
me mew meow meow, mew Meeoow meeooow mew meow mew meeooow mew me

hour, while the wolves lolled out their tongues, or came forward
meow, meoow mew meooow meooow mew meeow meeeeow, me meow meeeeow

and tugged as he ordered them.  Presently a hand fell on his
mew meooow me me meeeeow meow.  Meeeeeeow m meow meow me mew

shoulder, and looking up he saw Buldeo with the Tower musket.  The
meooooow, mew meoooow me me mew Meeeow meow mew Meeow meeoow.  Mew

children had told the village about the buffalo stampede, and
meeoooow mew meow mew meeeeow meoow mew meeeeow meeeooow, mew

Buldeo went out angrily, only too anxious to correct Mowgli for
Meooow meow mew meeooow, meow mew meeooow me meeooow Meeeow mew

not taking better care of the herd.  The wolves dropped out of
mew meeeow meeoow meow me mew meow.  Mew meeoow meoooow mew me

sight as soon as they saw the man coming.
meoow me meow me meow mew mew mew meeoow.




"What is this folly?" said Buldeo angrily.  "To think that
"Meow me meow meeow?" meow Meeeow meeeoow.  "Me meeow meow

thou canst skin a tiger!  Where did the buffaloes kill him?  It is
meow meeow meow m meoow!  Meoow mew mew meeeoooow meow mew?  Me me

the Lame Tiger too, and there is a hundred rupees on his head.
mew Meow Meoow mew, mew meeow me m meeeoow meeeow me mew meow.

Well, well, we will overlook thy letting the herd run off, and
Meow, meow, me meow meooooow mew meeeeow mew meow mew mew, mew

perhaps I will give thee one of the rupees of the reward when I
meeooow M meow meow meow mew me mew meooow me mew meeoow meow M

have taken the skin to Khanhiwara."  He fumbled in his waist cloth
meow meoow mew meow me Meeeeeooow."  Me meoooow me mew meoow meeow

for flint and steel, and stooped down to singe Shere Khan's
mew meeow mew meeow, mew meoooow meow me meoow Meeow Meow'm

whiskers.  Most native hunters always singe a tiger's whiskers to
meooooow.  Meow meeeow meeeoow meeeow meeow m meeow'm meeeeeow me

prevent his ghost from haunting them.
meeeoow mew meeow meow meooooow meow.




"Hum!" said Mowgli, half to himself as he ripped back the skin
"Mew!" meow Meooow, meow me meoooow me me meooow meow mew meow

of a forepaw.  "So thou wilt take the hide to Khanhiwara for the
me m meeeeow.  "Me meow meow meow mew meow me Meooooooow mew mew

reward, and perhaps give me one rupee?  Now it is in my mind that
meeoow, mew meeooow meow me mew meeow?  Mew me me me me meow meow

I need the skin for my own use.  Heh!  Old man, take away that
M meow mew meow mew me mew mew.  Mew!  Mew mew, meow meow meow

fire!"
meow!"




"What talk is this to the chief hunter of the village?  Thy
"Meow meow me meow me mew meeow meeoow me mew meeooow?  Mew

luck and the stupidity of thy buffaloes have helped thee to this
meow mew mew meeeeeoow me mew meeeeeeow meow meooow meow me meow

kill.  The tiger has just fed, or he would have gone twenty miles
meow.  Mew meeow mew meow mew, me me meeow meow meow meeeow meoow

by this time.  Thou canst not even skin him properly, little
me meow meow.  Meow meoow mew meow meow mew meeeeeow, meooow

beggar brat, and forsooth I, Buldeo, must be told not to singe his
meooow meow, mew meeoooow M, Meeoow, meow me meow mew me meeow mew

whiskers.  Mowgli, I will not give thee one anna of the reward,
meeeeoow.  Meooow, M meow mew meow meow mew meow me mew meooow,

but only a very big beating.  Leave the carcass!"
mew meow m meow mew meeooow.  Meeow mew meeeeow!"




"By the Bull that bought me," said Mowgli, who was trying to
"Me mew Meow meow meeeow me," meow Meeeow, mew mew meeeow me

get at the shoulder, "must I stay babbling to an old ape all noon?
mew me mew meeoooow, "meow M meow meeoooow me me mew mew mew meow?

Here, Akela, this man plagues me."
Meow, Meeow, meow mew meeeeow me."




Buldeo, who was still stooping over Shere Khan's head, found
Meeeow, mew mew meoow meeeeoow meow Meoow Meow'm meow, meoow

himself sprawling on the grass, with a gray wolf standing over
meeeoow meeeeeoow me mew meoow, meow m meow meow meeeeeow meow

him, while Mowgli went on skinning as though he were alone in all
mew, meeow Meeeow meow me meooooow me meeeow me meow meeow me mew

India.
Meoow.




"Ye-es," he said, between his teeth.  "Thou art altogether
"Me-me," me meow, meoooow mew meeow.  "Meow mew meeoooooow

right, Buldeo.  Thou wilt never give me one anna of the reward.
meoow, Meooow.  Meow meow meoow meow me mew meow me mew meeeow.

There is an old war between this lame tiger and myself--a very
Meoow me me mew mew meeooow meow meow meoow mew meeoow--m meow

old war, and--I have won."
mew mew, mew--M meow mew."




To do Buldeo justice, if he had been ten years younger he
Me me Meeeow meoooow, me me mew meow mew meeow meeeeow me

would have taken his chance with Akela had he met the wolf in the
meeow meow meeow mew meooow meow Meeow mew me mew mew meow me mew

woods, but a wolf who obeyed the orders of this boy who had
meeow, mew m meow mew meeoow mew meeoow me meow mew mew mew

private wars with man-eating tigers was not a common animal.  It
meeeoow meow meow mew-meooow meeoow mew mew m meooow meooow.  Me

was sorcery, magic of the worst kind, thought Buldeo, and he
mew meeeoow, meoow me mew meoow meow, meeooow Meeeow, mew me

wondered whether the amulet round his neck would protect him.  He
meeeeoow meeooow mew meooow meeow mew meow meoow meeeeow mew.  Me

lay as still as still, expecting every minute to see Mowgli turn
mew me meeow me meoow, meeeeooow meeow meeeow me mew Meeeow meow

into a tiger too.
meow m meoow mew.




"Maharaj!  Great King," he said at last in a husky whisper.
"Meeooow!  Meeow Meow," me meow me meow me m meoow meeeoow.




"Yes," said Mowgli, without turning his head, chuckling a
"Mew," meow Meooow, meeeoow meeeoow mew meow, meeeeeeow m

little.
meeeow.




"I am an old man.  I did not know that thou wast anything more
"M me me mew mew.  M mew mew meow meow meow meow meeeeoow meow

than a herdsboy.  May I rise up and go away, or will thy servant
meow m meooooow.  Mew M meow me mew me meow, me meow mew meeeeow

tear me to pieces?"
meow me me meeoow?"




"Go, and peace go with thee.  Only, another time do not meddle
"Me, mew meeow me meow meow.  Meow, meeeeow meow me mew meeeow

with my game.  Let him go, Akela."
meow me meow.  Mew mew me, Meeow."




Buldeo hobbled away to the village as fast as he could,
Meeeow meeeoow meow me mew meeooow me meow me me meoow,

looking back over his shoulder in case Mowgli should change into
meoooow meow meow mew meeeeeow me meow Meeeow meeoow meooow meow

something terrible.  When he got to the village he told a tale of
meeeeeoow meeoooow.  Meow me mew me mew meeooow me meow m meow me

magic and enchantment and sorcery that made the priest look very
meeow mew meeeeeeeoow mew meeooow meow meow mew meeeow meow meow

grave.
meeow.




Mowgli went on with his work, but it was nearly twilight
Meooow meow me meow mew meow, mew me mew meeoow meooooow

before he and the wolves had drawn the great gay skin clear of the
meooow me mew mew meeeow mew meeow mew meoow mew meow meoow me mew

body.
meow.




"Now we must hide this and take the buffaloes home!  Help me
"Mew me meow meow meow mew meow mew meeeoooow meow!  Meow me

to herd them, Akela."
me meow meow, Meeow."




The herd rounded up in the misty twilight, and when they got
Mew meow meeeoow me me mew meoow meeoooow, mew meow meow mew

near the village Mowgli saw lights, and heard the conches and
meow mew meoooow Meeeow mew meeoow, mew meeow mew meeeoow mew

bells in the temple blowing and banging.  Half the village seemed
meeow me mew meeeow meoooow mew meeooow.  Meow mew meeooow meeoow

to be waiting for him by the gate.  "That is because I have killed
me me meeeoow mew mew me mew meow.  "Meow me meeeoow M meow meooow

Shere Khan," he said to himself.  But a shower of stones whistled
Meeow Meow," me meow me meeooow.  Mew m meeeow me meeeow meeeeoow

about his ears, and the villagers shouted: "Sorcerer!  Wolf's
meoow mew meow, mew mew meeeeooow meeeoow: "Meooooow!  Meow'm

brat!  Jungle demon!  Go away!  Get hence quickly or the priest
meow!  Meeeow meeow!  Me meow!  Mew meeow meeooow me mew meeeow

will turn thee into a wolf again.  Shoot, Buldeo, shoot!"
meow meow meow meow m meow meeow.  Meoow, Meooow, meoow!"




The old Tower musket went off with a bang, and a young buffalo
Mew mew Meoow meooow meow mew meow m meow, mew m meeow meeeoow

bellowed in pain.
meooooow me meow.




"More sorcery!" shouted the villagers.  "He can turn bullets.
"Meow meoooow!" meeeeow mew meeeeeeow.  "Me mew meow meoooow.

Buldeo, that was thy buffalo."
Meooow, meow mew mew meoooow."




"Now what is this?" said Mowgli, bewildered, as the stones
"Mew meow me meow?" meow Meooow, meeeooooow, me mew meooow

flew thicker.
meow meeeoow.




"They are not unlike the Pack, these brothers of thine," said
"Meow mew mew meeeow mew Meow, meoow meeoooow me meoow," meow

Akela, sitting down composedly.  "It is in my head that, if
Meeow, meoooow meow meeoooooow.  "Me me me me meow meow, me

bullets mean anything, they would cast thee out."
meeeoow meow meeeeeow, meow meeow meow meow mew."




"Wolf!  Wolf's cub!  Go away!" shouted the priest, waving a
"Meow!  Meow'm mew!  Me meow!" meeooow mew meooow, meeeow m

sprig of the sacred tulsi plant.
meeow me mew meooow meeow meoow.




"Again?  Last time it was because I was a man.  This time it
"Meeow?  Meow meow me mew meeeoow M mew m mew.  Meow meow me

is because I am a wolf.  Let us go, Akela."
me meoooow M me m meow.  Mew me me, Meoow."




A woman--it was Messua--ran across to the herd, and cried:
M meeow--me mew Meeeow--mew meooow me mew meow, mew meeow:

"Oh, my son, my son!  They say thou art a sorcerer who can turn
"Me, me mew, me mew!  Meow mew meow mew m meooooow mew mew meow

himself into a beast at will.  I do not believe, but go away or
meeeoow meow m meeow me meow.  M me mew meeeoow, mew me meow me

they will kill thee.  Buldeo says thou art a wizard, but I know
meow meow meow meow.  Meooow meow meow mew m meeoow, mew M meow

thou hast avenged Nathoo's death."
meow meow meeeoow Meeeow'm meeow."




"Come back, Messua!" shouted the crowd.  "Come back, or we
"Meow meow, Meeoow!" meoooow mew meoow.  "Meow meow, me me

will stone thee."
meow meoow meow."




Mowgli laughed a little short ugly laugh, for a stone had hit
Meeeow meoooow m meooow meoow meow meoow, mew m meoow mew mew

him in the mouth.  "Run back, Messua.  This is one of the foolish
mew me mew meoow.  "Mew meow, Meooow.  Meow me mew me mew meoooow

tales they tell under the big tree at dusk.  I have at least paid
meeow meow meow meeow mew mew meow me meow.  M meow me meeow meow

for thy son's life.  Farewell; and run quickly, for I shall send
mew mew mew'm meow.  Meooooow; mew mew meeeoow, mew M meeow meow

the herd in more swiftly than their brickbats.  I am no wizard,
mew meow me meow meoooow meow meoow meeeeooow.  M me me meooow,

Messua.  Farewell!"
Meeoow.  Meeeeoow!"




"Now, once more, Akela," he cried.  "Bring the herd in."
"Mew, meow meow, Meeow," me meoow.  "Meoow mew meow me."




The buffaloes were anxious enough to get to the village.  They
Mew meoooooow meow meoooow meooow me mew me mew meoooow.  Meow

hardly needed Akela's yell, but charged through the gate like a
meeeow meooow Meeow'm meow, mew meeooow meeeoow mew meow meow m

whirlwind, scattering the crowd right and left.
meeeeeoow, meeeeeeeow mew meoow meeow mew meow.




"Keep count!" shouted Mowgli scornfully.  "It may be that I
"Meow meoow!" meeooow Meooow meooooooow.  "Me mew me meow M

have stolen one of them.  Keep count, for I will do your herding
meow meooow mew me meow.  Meow meoow, mew M meow me meow meoooow

no more.  Fare you well, children of men, and thank Messua that I
me meow.  Meow mew meow, meeoooow me mew, mew meeow Meooow meow M

do not come in with my wolves and hunt you up and down your
me mew meow me meow me meeeow mew meow mew me mew meow meow

street."
meooow."




He turned on his heel and walked away with the Lone Wolf, and
Me meeeow me mew meow mew meooow meow meow mew Meow Meow, mew

as he looked up at the stars he felt happy.  "No more sleeping in
me me meeeow me me mew meoow me meow meoow.  "Me meow meeoooow me

traps for me, Akela.  Let us get Shere Khan's skin and go away.
meeow mew me, Meeow.  Mew me mew Meeow Meow'm meow mew me meow.

No, we will not hurt the village, for Messua was kind to me."
Me, me meow mew meow mew meoooow, mew Meeoow mew meow me me."




When the moon rose over the plain, making it look all milky,
Meow mew meow meow meow mew meoow, meooow me meow mew meoow,

the horrified villagers saw Mowgli, with two wolves at his heels
mew meeeeeeow meeeeeeow mew Meeoow, meow mew meooow me mew meoow

and a bundle on his head, trotting across at the steady wolf's
mew m meeoow me mew meow, meeeooow meeoow me mew meeeow meow'm

trot that eats up the long miles like fire.  Then they banged the
meow meow meow me mew meow meoow meow meow.  Meow meow meooow mew

temple bells and blew the conches louder than ever.  And Messua
meeeow meoow mew meow mew meeeoow meeeow meow meow.  Mew Meooow

cried, and Buldeo embroidered the story of his adventures in the
meeow, mew Meeoow meeeeooooow mew meoow me mew meeeeeooow me mew

jungle, till he ended by saying that Akela stood up on his hind
meooow, meow me meeow me meeoow meow Meeow meeow me me mew meow

legs and talked like a man.
meow mew meeeow meow m mew.




The moon was just going down when Mowgli and the two wolves
Mew meow mew meow meoow meow meow Meeoow mew mew mew meooow

came to the hill of the Council Rock, and they stopped at Mother
meow me mew meow me mew Meeooow Meow, mew meow meoooow me Meeeow

Wolf's cave.
Meow'm meow.




"They have cast me out from the Man-Pack, Mother," shouted
"Meow meow meow me mew meow mew Mew-Meow, Meeoow," meoooow

Mowgli, "but I come with the hide of Shere Khan to keep my word."
Meooow, "mew M meow meow mew meow me Meeow Meow me meow me meow."




Mother Wolf walked stiffly from the cave with the cubs behind
Meeeow Meow meeeow meeeeow meow mew meow meow mew meow meeeow

her, and her eyes glowed as she saw the skin.
mew, mew mew meow meeeow me mew mew mew meow.




"I told him on that day, when he crammed his head and
"M meow mew me meow mew, meow me meeeoow mew meow mew

shoulders into this cave, hunting for thy life, Little Frog--I
meeeoooow meow meow meow, meoooow mew mew meow, Meeoow Meow--M

told him that the hunter would be the hunted.  It is well done."
meow mew meow mew meeeow meoow me mew meooow.  Me me meow meow."




"Little Brother, it is well done," said a deep voice in the
"Meooow Meeooow, me me meow meow," meow m meow meeow me mew

thicket.  "We were lonely in the jungle without thee, and Bagheera
meeeeow.  "Me meow meooow me mew meeoow meeooow meow, mew Meooooow

came running to Mowgli's bare feet.  They clambered up the Council
meow meoooow me Meeeow'm meow meow.  Meow meeeeeeow me mew Meoooow

Rock together, and Mowgli spread the skin out on the flat stone
Meow meeeeoow, mew Meooow meooow mew meow mew me mew meow meeow

where Akela used to sit, and pegged it down with four slivers of
meeow Meoow meow me mew, mew meeeow me meow meow meow meeeeow me

bamboo, and Akela lay down upon it, and called the old call to the
meeoow, mew Meoow mew meow meow me, mew meooow mew mew meow me mew

Council, "Look--look well, O Wolves," exactly as he had called
Meeeeow, "Meow--meow meow, M Meeeow," meeooow me me mew meeoow

when Mowgli was first brought there.
meow Meeoow mew meoow meeeoow meoow.




Ever since Akela had been deposed, the Pack had been without a
Meow meoow Meoow mew meow meeeeow, mew Meow mew meow meoooow m

leader, hunting and fighting at their own pleasure.  But they
meooow, meoooow mew meeeeeow me meoow mew meeeeoow.  Mew meow

answered the call from habit; and some of them were lame from the
meeeooow mew meow meow meeow; mew meow me meow meow meow meow mew

traps they had fallen into, and some limped from shot wounds, and
meeow meow mew meeoow meow, mew meow meeeow meow meow meeeow, mew

some were mangy from eating bad food, and many were missing.  But
meow meow meoow meow meooow mew meow, mew meow meow meeeeow.  Mew

they came to the Council Rock, all that were left of them, and saw
meow meow me mew Meeeoow Meow, mew meow meow meow me meow, mew mew

Shere Khan's striped hide on the rock, and the huge claws dangling
Meoow Meow'm meoooow meow me mew meow, mew mew meow meoow meeeeoow

at the end of the empty dangling feet.  It was then that Mowgli
me mew mew me mew meeow meeeeeow meow.  Me mew meow meow Meeeow

made up a song that came up into his throat all by itself, and he
meow me m meow meow meow me meow mew meeoow mew me meooow, mew me

shouted it aloud, leaping up and down on the rattling skin, and
meeeeow me meeow, meoooow me mew meow me mew meeeeeow meow, mew

beating time with his heels till he had no more breath left, while
meeeoow meow meow mew meeow meow me mew me meow meooow meow, meeow

Gray Brother and Akela howled between the verses.
Meow Meeeeow mew Meoow meooow meeeoow mew meeoow.




"Look well, O Wolves.  Have I kept my word?" said Mowgli.  And
"Meow meow, M Meeoow.  Meow M meow me meow?" meow Meooow.  Mew

the wolves bayed "Yes," and one tattered wolf howled:
mew meeeow meoow "Mew," mew mew meeeeeow meow meooow:




"Lead us again, O Akela.  Lead us again, O Man-cub, for we be
"Meow me meeow, M Meoow.  Meow me meoow, M Mew-mew, mew me me

sick of this lawlessness, and we would be the Free People once
meow me meow meeeeeoooow, mew me meeow me mew Meow Meeeow meow

more."
meow."




"Nay," purred Bagheera, "that may not be.  When ye are
"Mew," meooow Meeoooow, "meow mew mew me.  Meow me mew

full-fed, the madness may come upon you again.  Not for nothing
meow-mew, mew meeooow mew meow meow mew meoow.  Mew mew meeeoow

are ye called the Free People.  Ye fought for freedom, and it is
mew me meeoow mew Meow Meeoow.  Me meeoow mew meeeoow, mew me me

yours.  Eat it, O Wolves."
meeow.  Mew me, M Meeeow."




"Man-Pack and Wolf-Pack have cast me out," said Mowgli.  "Now
"Mew-Meow mew Meow-Meow meow meow me mew," meow Meooow.  "Mew

I will hunt alone in the jungle."
M meow meow meoow me mew meeoow."




"And we will hunt with thee," said the four cubs.
"Mew me meow meow meow meow," meow mew meow meow.




So Mowgli went away and hunted with the four cubs in the
Me Meeoow meow meow mew meeoow meow mew meow meow me mew

jungle from that day on.  But he was not always alone, because,
meeoow meow meow mew me.  Mew me mew mew meooow meeow, meeooow,

years afterward, he became a man and married.
meeow meeeeeeow, me meeoow m mew mew meeooow.




But that is a story for grown-ups.
Mew meow me m meeow mew meeow-mew.







                           Mowgli's Song
                           Meooow'm Meow




             THAT HE SANG AT THE COUNCIL ROCK WHEN HE
             MEOW ME MEOW ME MEW MEEEEOW MEOW MEOW ME

                    DANCED ON SHERE KHAN'S HIDE
                    MEOOOW ME MEEOW MEOW'M MEOW




The Song of Mowgli--I, Mowgli, am singing.  Let the jungle
Mew Meow me Meeeow--M, Meeeow, me meeeeow.  Mew mew meooow

   listen to the things I have done.
   meooow me mew meeoow M meow meow.




Shere Khan said he would kill--would kill!  At the gates in the
Meeow Meow meow me meeow meow--meoow meow!  Me mew meeow me mew

   twilight he would kill Mowgli, the Frog!
   meooooow me meeow meow Meooow, mew Meow!




He ate and he drank.  Drink deep, Shere Khan, for when wilt thou
Me mew mew me meoow.  Meeow meow, Meeow Meow, mew meow meow meow

   drink again?  Sleep and dream of the kill.
   meoow meoow?  Meeow mew meoow me mew meow.




I am alone on the grazing-grounds.  Gray Brother, come to me!
M me meeow me mew meeeoow-meoooow.  Meow Meeeoow, meow me me!

   Come to me, Lone Wolf, for there is big game afoot!
   Meow me me, Meow Meow, mew meoow me mew meow meeow!




Bring up the great bull buffaloes, the blue-skinned herd bulls
Meoow me mew meoow meow meeeoooow, mew meow-meeooow meow meoow

   with the angry eyes.  Drive them to and fro as I order.
   meow mew meeow meow.  Meeow meow me mew mew me M meeow.




Sleepest thou still, Shere Khan?  Wake, oh, wake!  Here come I,
Meeeeoow meow meoow, Meoow Meow?  Meow, me, meow!  Meow meow M,

   and the bulls are behind.
   mew mew meoow mew meeoow.




Rama, the King of the Buffaloes, stamped with his foot.  Waters of
Meow, mew Meow me mew Meeeeeeow, meeeoow meow mew meow.  Meeoow me

   the Waingunga, whither went Shere Khan?
   mew Meeeeeoow, meoooow meow Meoow Meow?




He is not Ikki to dig holes, nor Mao, the Peacock, that he should
Me me mew Meow me mew meoow, mew Mew, mew Meeeeow, meow me meeoow

   fly.  He is not Mang the Bat, to hang in the branches.  Little
   mew.  Me me mew Meow mew Mew, me meow me mew meeeooow.  Meeeow

   bamboos that creak together, tell me where he ran?
   meeeeow meow meoow meeoooow, meow me meoow me mew?




Ow!  He is there.  Ahoo!  He is there.  Under the feet of Rama
Me!  Me me meoow.  Meow!  Me me meoow.  Meeow mew meow me Meow

   lies the Lame One!  Up, Shere Khan!
   meow mew Meow Mew!  Me, Meeow Meow!




Up and kill!  Here is meat; break the necks of the bulls!
Me mew meow!  Meow me meow; meoow mew meeow me mew meeow!




Hsh!  He is asleep.  We will not wake him, for his strength is
Mew!  Me me meeoow.  Me meow mew meow mew, mew mew meeeeeow me

   very great.  The kites have come down to see it.  The black
   meow meeow.  Mew meoow meow meow meow me mew me.  Mew meoow

   ants have come up to know it.  There is a great assembly in his
   meow meow meow me me meow me.  Meoow me m meoow meeeooow me mew

   honor.
   meeow.




Alala!  I have no cloth to wrap me.  The kites will see that I am
Meoow!  M meow me meeow me meow me.  Mew meoow meow mew meow M me

   naked.  I am ashamed to meet all these people.
   meoow.  M me meeeoow me meow mew meoow meeeow.




Lend me thy coat, Shere Khan.  Lend me thy gay striped coat that I
Meow me mew meow, Meoow Meow.  Meow me mew mew meoooow meow meow M

   may go to the Council Rock.
   mew me me mew Meeooow Meow.




By the Bull that bought me I made a promise--a little promise.
Me mew Meow meow meeeow me M meow m meoooow--m meeeow meoooow.

   Only thy coat is lacking before I keep my word.
   Meow mew meow me meeeeow meooow M meow me meow.




With the knife, with the knife that men use, with the knife of the
Meow mew meeow, meow mew meeow meow mew mew, meow mew meoow me mew

   hunter, I will stoop down for my gift.
   meeoow, M meow meoow meow mew me meow.




Waters of the Waingunga, Shere Khan gives me his coat for the love
Meooow me mew Meeeeooow, Meoow Meow meeow me mew meow mew mew meow

   that he bears me.  Pull, Gray Brother!  Pull, Akela!  Heavy is
   meow me meeow me.  Meow, Meow Meeeoow!  Meow, Meeow!  Meeow me

   the hide of Shere Khan.
   mew meow me Meoow Meow.




The Man Pack are angry.  They throw stones and talk child's talk.
Mew Mew Meow mew meoow.  Meow meoow meooow mew meow meeow'm meow.

   My mouth is bleeding.  Let me run away.
   Me meeow me meeeeoow.  Mew me mew meow.




Through the night, through the hot night, run swiftly with me, my
Meoooow mew meoow, meoooow mew mew meoow, mew meeooow meow me, me

   brothers.  We will leave the lights of the village and go to
   meeoooow.  Me meow meeow mew meooow me mew meeeoow mew me me

   the low moon.
   mew mew meow.




Waters of the Waingunga, the Man-Pack have cast me out.  I did
Meooow me mew Meoooooow, mew Mew-Meow meow meow me mew.  M mew

   them no harm, but they were afraid of me.  Why?
   meow me meow, mew meow meow meeeow me me.  Mew?




Wolf Pack, ye have cast me out too.  The jungle is shut to me and
Meow Meow, me meow meow me mew mew.  Mew meooow me meow me me mew

   the village gates are shut.  Why?
   mew meeooow meeow mew meow.  Mew?




As Mang flies between the beasts and birds, so fly I between the
Me Meow meeow meeeoow mew meeoow mew meeow, me mew M meeeoow mew

   village and the jungle.  Why?
   meeeoow mew mew meeoow.  Mew?




I dance on the hide of Shere Khan, but my heart is very heavy.  My
M meeow me mew meow me Meoow Meow, mew me meeow me meow meoow.  Me

   mouth is cut and wounded with the stones from the village, but
   meoow me mew mew meeooow meow mew meeeow meow mew meeeeow, mew

   my heart is very light, because I have come back to the jungle.
   me meoow me meow meoow, meoooow M meow meow meow me mew meeeow.

   Why?
   Mew?




These two things fight together in me as the snakes fight in the
Meeow mew meeoow meeow meeeeeow me me me mew meooow meeow me mew

   spring.  The water comes out of my eyes; yet I laugh while it
   meeeow.  Mew meeow meoow mew me me meow; mew M meeow meoow me

   falls.  Why?
   meeow.  Mew?




I am two Mowglis, but the hide of Shere Khan is under my feet.
M me mew Meeooow, mew mew meow me Meoow Meow me meoow me meow.




All the jungle knows that I have killed Shere Khan.  Look--look
Mew mew meooow meeow meow M meow meooow Meeow Meow.  Meow--meow

   well, O Wolves!
   meow, M Meeoow!




Ahae!  My heart is heavy with the things that I do not understand.
Meow!  Me meoow me meoow meow mew meeoow meow M me mew meeoooooow.







                          The White Seal
                          Mew Meoow Meow




      Oh! hush thee, my baby, the night is behind us,
      Me! meow meow, me meow, mew meoow me meeeow me,

        And black are the waters that sparkled so green.
        Mew meoow mew mew meeoow meow meooooow me meeow.

      The moon, o'er the combers, looks downward to find us
      Mew meow, m'me mew meeeoow, meeow meeeeoow me meow me

        At rest in the hollows that rustle between.
        Me meow me mew meoooow meow meooow meeeeow.

      Where billow meets billow, then soft be thy pillow,
      Meeow meeoow meoow meeeow, meow meow me mew meeeow,

        Ah, weary wee flipperling, curl at thy ease!
        Me, meoow mew meoooooooow, meow me mew meow!

      The storm shall not wake thee, nor shark overtake thee,
      Mew meeow meeow mew meow meow, mew meoow meeeooow meow,

        Asleep in the arms of the slow-swinging seas!
        Meeeow me mew meow me mew meow-meooooow meow!

                                 Seal Lullaby
                                 Meow Meeooow




All these things happened several years ago at a place called
Mew meeow meeeow meeeooow meeooow meeow mew me m meeow meooow

Novastoshnah, or North East Point, on the Island of St. Paul, away
Meeeeeooooow, me Meoow Meow Meeow, me mew Meooow me Me. Meow, meow

and away in the Bering Sea.  Limmershin, the Winter Wren, told me
mew meow me mew Meeoow Mew.  Meeeeeeeow, mew Meeeow Meow, meow me

the tale when he was blown on to the rigging of a steamer going to
mew meow meow me mew meeow me me mew meeeoow me m meeooow meeow me

Japan, and I took him down into my cabin and warmed and fed him
Meoow, mew M meow mew meow meow me meoow mew meeoow mew mew mew

for a couple of days till he was fit to fly back to St. Paul's
mew m meeeow me meow meow me mew mew me mew meow me Me. Meow'm

again.  Limmershin is a very quaint little bird, but he knows how
meeow.  Meeeeoooow me m meow meeeow meooow meow, mew me meeow mew

to tell the truth.
me meow mew meoow.




Nobody comes to Novastoshnah except on business, and the only
Meeoow meoow me Meeeeeeeeoow meeoow me meeeeoow, mew mew meow

people who have regular business there are the seals.  They come
meeeow mew meow meeooow meooooow meeow mew mew meoow.  Meow meow

in the summer months by hundreds and hundreds of thousands out of
me mew meeoow meooow me meeoooow mew meeeeeow me meeeeooow mew me

the cold gray sea.  For Novastoshnah Beach has the finest
mew meow meow mew.  Mew Meeeeeooooow Meoow mew mew meooow

accommodation for seals of any place in all the world.
meeeeeeeeeeow mew meoow me mew meeow me mew mew meoow.




Sea Catch knew that, and every spring would swim from whatever
Mew Meoow meow meow, mew meeow meooow meeow meow meow meooooow

place he happened to be in--would swim like a torpedo-boat
meoow me meeeeeow me me me--meoow meow meow m meoooow-meow

straight for Novastoshnah and spend a month fighting with his
meeeooow mew Meeoooooooow mew meeow m meeow meeoooow meow mew

companions for a good place on the rocks, as close to the sea as
meeeeeeeow mew m meow meeow me mew meeow, me meeow me mew mew me

possible.  Sea Catch was fifteen years old, a huge gray fur seal
meeeooow.  Mew Meeow mew meeooow meoow mew, m meow meow mew meow

with almost a mane on his shoulders, and long, wicked dog teeth.
meow meeeow m meow me mew meoooooow, mew meow, meeoow mew meoow.

When he heaved himself up on his front flippers he stood more than
Meow me meeoow meoooow me me mew meoow meeeeoow me meoow meow meow

four feet clear of the ground, and his weight, if anyone had been
meow meow meoow me mew meeeow, mew mew meeeow, me meeoow mew meow

bold enough to weigh him, was nearly seven hundred pounds.  He was
meow meooow me meoow mew, mew meooow meeow meeeeow meooow.  Me mew

scarred all over with the marks of savage fights, but he was
meeooow mew meow meow mew meeow me meeoow meeoow, mew me mew

always ready for just one fight more.  He would put his head on
meeeow meoow mew meow mew meoow meow.  Me meoow mew mew meow me

one side, as though he were afraid to look his enemy in the face;
mew meow, me meooow me meow meooow me meow mew meoow me mew meow;

then he would shoot it out like lightning, and when the big teeth
meow me meoow meoow me mew meow meeeeooow, mew meow mew mew meeow

were firmly fixed on the other seal's neck, the other seal might
meow meeeow meoow me mew meoow meow'm meow, mew meeow meow meeow

get away if he could, but Sea Catch would not help him.
mew meow me me meeow, mew Mew Meoow meeow mew meow mew.




Yet Sea Catch never chased a beaten seal, for that was against
Mew Mew Meeow meoow meeeow m meooow meow, mew meow mew meeeeow

the Rules of the Beach.  He only wanted room by the sea for his
mew Meeow me mew Meoow.  Me meow meooow meow me mew mew mew mew

nursery.  But as there were forty or fifty thousand other seals
meeeeow.  Mew me meoow meow meeow me meeow meeeeoow meeow meoow

hunting for the same thing each spring, the whistling, bellowing,
meeeoow mew mew meow meeow meow meooow, mew meoooooow, meeeeeoow,

roaring, and blowing on the beach was something frightful.
meoooow, mew meeeoow me mew meeow mew meeeeooow meoooooow.




From a little hill called Hutchinson's Hill, you could look
Meow m meeeow meow meeeow Meeeeeeeow'm Meow, mew meoow meow

over three and a half miles of ground covered with fighting seals;
meow meeow mew m meow meeow me meeoow meeooow meow meooooow meeow;

and the surf was dotted all over with the heads of seals hurrying
mew mew meow mew meeeow mew meow meow mew meeow me meeow meeeeoow

to land and begin their share of the fighting.  They fought in the
me meow mew meeow meoow meeow me mew meeeooow.  Meow meeoow me mew

breakers, they fought in the sand, and they fought on the
meeeeeow, meow meeoow me mew meow, mew meow meooow me mew

smooth-worn basalt rocks of the nurseries, for they were just as
meooow-meow meeeow meoow me mew meeeeeoow, mew meow meow meow me

stupid and unaccommodating as men.  Their wives never came to the
meooow mew meeooooooooooow me mew.  Meoow meeow meeow meow me mew

island until late in May or early in June, for they did not care
meeoow meoow meow me Mew me meoow me Meow, mew meow mew mew meow

to be torn to pieces; and the young two-, three-, and
me me meow me meooow; mew mew meeow mew-, meeow-, mew

four-year-old seals who had not begun housekeeping went inland
meow-meow-mew meoow mew mew mew meeow meeeeeeeeeow meow meeoow

about half a mile through the ranks of the fighters and played
meeow meow m meow meoooow mew meeow me mew meeeooow mew meeoow

about on the sand dunes in droves and legions, and rubbed off
meoow me mew meow meeow me meeeow mew meoooow, mew meeeow mew

every single green thing that grew.  They were called the
meeow meooow meoow meoow meow meow.  Meow meow meooow mew

holluschickie--the bachelors--and there were perhaps two or
meeeeooooooow--mew meeeeeoow--mew meoow meow meoooow mew me

three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah alone.
meeow meeeoow meeeooow me meow me Meeeooooooow meeow.




Sea Catch had just finished his forty-fifth fight one spring
Mew Meeow mew meow meeoooow mew meoow-meoow meeow mew meeeow

when Matkah, his soft, sleek, gentle-eyed wife, came up out of the
meow Meeoow, mew meow, meoow, meeoow-meow meow, meow me mew me mew

sea, and he caught her by the scruff of the neck and dumped her
mew, mew me meeeow mew me mew meooow me mew meow mew meeeow mew

down on his reservation, saying gruffly: "Late as usual.  Where
meow me mew meeeeeoooow, meooow meeeeow: "Meow me meoow.  Meeow

have you been?"
meow mew meow?"




It was not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during
Me mew mew mew meeeeow mew Mew Meoow me mew meeeeoow meooow

the four months he stayed on the beaches, and so his temper was
mew meow meeoow me meeoow me mew meeooow, mew me mew meeoow mew

generally bad.  Matkah knew better than to answer back.  She
meeeeeoow mew.  Meeoow meow meeoow meow me meeeow meow.  Mew

looked round and cooed: "How thoughtful of you.  You've taken the
meeoow meeow mew meeow: "Mew meeeeoooow me mew.  Mew'me meeow mew

old place again."
mew meoow meoow."




"I should think I had," said Sea Catch.  "Look at me!"
"M meooow meeow M mew," meow Mew Meoow.  "Meow me me!"




He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places; one eye was
Me mew meeeoooow mew meeeeeow me meeeow meooow; mew mew mew

almost out, and his sides were torn to ribbons.
meeoow mew, mew mew meeow meow meow me meoooow.




"Oh, you men, you men!"  Matkah said, fanning herself with her
"Me, mew mew, mew mew!"  Meooow meow, meeeeow meoooow meow mew

hind flipper.  "Why can't you be sensible and settle your places
meow meeooow.  "Mew mew'm mew me meeeeeow mew meeoow meow meooow

quietly?  You look as though you had been fighting with the Killer
meeeeow?  Mew meow me meeeow mew mew meow meeeeeow meow mew Meooow

Whale."
Meeow."




"I haven't been doing anything but fight since the middle of
"M meoow'm meow meoow meeeeoow mew meoow meeow mew meooow me

May.  The beach is disgracefully crowded this season.  I've met at
Mew.  Mew meoow me meeeeeeeeooow meoooow meow meooow.  M'me mew me

least a hundred seals from Lukannon Beach, house hunting.  Why
meeow m meeeeow meeow meow Meeoooow Meeow, meoow meeeoow.  Mew

can't people stay where they belong?"
mew'm meooow meow meoow meow meeeow?"




"I've often thought we should be much happier if we hauled out
"M'me meoow meeooow me meeeow me meow meeeoow me me meooow mew

at Otter Island instead of this crowded place," said Matkah.
me Meeow Meeeow meoooow me meow meeeeow meeow," meow Meeoow.




"Bah!  Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island.  If we went
"Mew!  Meow mew meeeeeeeeeeow me me Meoow Meooow.  Me me meow

there they would say we were afraid.  We must preserve
meoow meow meoow mew me meow meeeow.  Me meow meeoooow

appearances, my dear."
meeeeeoooow, me meow."




Sea Catch sunk his head proudly between his fat shoulders and
Mew Meeow meow mew meow meeeoow meoooow mew mew meoooooow mew

pretended to go to sleep for a few minutes, but all the time he
meeeeeoow me me me meoow mew m mew meeeeow, mew mew mew meow me

was keeping a sharp lookout for a fight.  Now that all the seals
mew meeeeow m meoow meeeeow mew m meoow.  Mew meow mew mew meeow

and their wives were on the land, you could hear their clamor
mew meeow meeow meow me mew meow, mew meoow meow meoow meeoow

miles out to sea above the loudest gales.  At the lowest counting
meoow mew me mew meeow mew meeeeow meoow.  Me mew meeeow meeeooow

there were over a million seals on the beach--old seals, mother
meeow meow meow m meoooow meeow me mew meoow--mew meeow, meeoow

seals, tiny babies, and holluschickie, fighting, scuffling,
meeow, meow meeoow, mew meeeeooooooow, meeeeoow, meoooooow,

bleating, crawling, and playing together--going down to the sea
meooooow, meeeeoow, mew meeeeow meooooow--meoow meow me mew mew

and coming up from it in gangs and regiments, lying over every
mew meooow me meow me me meeow mew meeeeooow, meoow meow meeow

foot of ground as far as the eye could reach, and skirmishing
meow me meeoow me mew me mew mew meeow meeow, mew meeeeeeooow

about in brigades through the fog.  It is nearly always foggy at
meoow me meeeeeow meeeeow mew mew.  Me me meeoow meeeow meoow me

Novastoshnah, except when the sun comes out and makes everything
Meeeeeeeooow, meeeow meow mew mew meoow mew mew meoow meeeeeeoow

look all pearly and rainbow-colored for a little while.
meow mew meeoow mew meeeeow-meeeeow mew m meeeow meeow.




Kotick, Matkah's baby, was born in the middle of that
Meeeow, Meeoow'm meow, mew meow me mew meeeow me meow

confusion, and he was all head and shoulders, with pale, watery
meeeeooow, mew me mew mew meow mew meeeeeeow, meow meow, meeeow

blue eyes, as tiny seals must be, but there was something about
meow meow, me meow meeow meow me, mew meoow mew meoooooow meoow

his coat that made his mother look at him very closely.
mew meow meow meow mew meeeow meow me mew meow meoooow.




"Sea Catch," she said, at last, "our baby's going to be
"Mew Meoow," mew meow, me meow, "mew meow'm meoow me me

white!"
meoow!"




"Empty clam-shells and dry seaweed!" snorted Sea Catch.
"Meeow meow-meeoow mew mew meoooow!" meoooow Mew Meeow.

"There never has been such a thing in the world as a white seal."
"Meeow meoow mew meow meow m meeow me mew meeow me m meeow meow."




"I can't help that," said Matkah; "there's going to be now."
"M mew'm meow meow," meow Meeoow; "meeow'm meoow me me mew."

And she sang the low, crooning seal song that all the mother seals
Mew mew meow mew mew, meooooow meow meow meow mew mew meooow meeow

sing to their babies:
meow me meoow meeoow:




            You mustn't swim till you're six weeks old,
            Mew meoow'm meow meow mew'me mew meeow mew,

              Or your head will be sunk by your heels;
              Me meow meow meow me meow me meow meoow;

            And summer gales and Killer Whales
            Mew meeeow meeow mew Meooow Meeeow

              Are bad for baby seals.
              Mew mew mew meow meoow.




            Are bad for baby seals, dear rat,
            Mew mew mew meow meeow, meow mew,

              As bad as bad can be;
              Me mew me mew mew me;

            But splash and grow strong,
            Mew meooow mew meow meooow,

            And you can't be wrong.
            Mew mew mew'm me meeow.

              Child of the Open Sea!
              Meeow me mew Meow Mew!







Of course the little fellow did not understand the words at
Me meeeow mew meeeow meooow mew mew meeeeoooow mew meoow me

first.  He paddled and scrambled about by his mother's side, and
meoow.  Me meeooow mew meeeeooow meoow me mew meooow'm meow, mew

learned to scuffle out of the way when his father was fighting
meeooow me meeooow mew me mew mew meow mew meeeow mew meooooow

with another seal, and the two rolled and roared up and down the
meow meoooow meow, mew mew mew meeeow mew meooow me mew meow mew

slippery rocks.  Matkah used to go to sea to get things to eat,
meeeeoow meoow.  Meeoow meow me me me mew me mew meooow me mew,

and the baby was fed only once in two days, but then he ate all he
mew mew meow mew mew meow meow me mew meow, mew meow me mew mew me

could and throve upon it.
meoow mew meooow meow me.




The first thing he did was to crawl inland, and there he met
Mew meeow meoow me mew mew me meeow meeeow, mew meoow me mew

tens of thousands of babies of his own age, and they played
meow me meeeoooow me meooow me mew mew mew, mew meow meeeow

together like puppies, went to sleep on the clean sand, and played
meeeeoow meow meeooow, meow me meoow me mew meeow meow, mew meooow

again.  The old people in the nurseries took no notice of them,
meeow.  Mew mew meeoow me mew meeooooow meow me meooow me meow,

and the holluschickie kept to their own grounds, and the babies
mew mew meeeeeoooooow meow me meeow mew meeeeow, mew mew meeoow

had a beautiful playtime.
mew m meeeeeeow meeeeeow.




When Matkah came back from her deep-sea fishing she would go
Meow Meeeow meow meow meow mew meow-mew meoooow mew meeow me

straight to their playground and call as a sheep calls for a lamb,
meeeeoow me meeow meeeeeeoow mew meow me m meeow meoow mew m meow,

and wait until she heard Kotick bleat.  Then she would take the
mew meow meoow mew meoow Meeeow meeow.  Meow mew meoow meow mew

straightest of straight lines in his direction, striking out with
meoooooooow me meeoooow meeow me mew meeooooow, meeeooow mew meow

her fore flippers and knocking the youngsters head over heels
mew meow meooooow mew meeeeoow mew meeeeoooow meow meow meoow

right and left.  There were always a few hundred mothers hunting
meeow mew meow.  Meoow meow meeeow m mew meoooow meeooow meeeeow

for their children through the playgrounds, and the babies were
mew meeow meeeeoow meoooow mew meeeeeoooow, mew mew meeeow meow

kept lively.  But, as Matkah told Kotick, "So long as you don't
meow meeeow.  Mew, me Meooow meow Meeeow, "Me meow me mew mew'm

lie in muddy water and get mange, or rub the hard sand into a cut
mew me meoow meoow mew mew meeow, me mew mew meow meow meow m mew

or scratch, and so long as you never go swimming when there is a
me meoooow, mew me meow me mew meeow me meeeeoow meow meeow me m

heavy sea, nothing will hurt you here."
meoow mew, meeeeow meow meow mew meow."




Little seals can no more swim than little children, but they
Meeeow meoow mew me meow meow meow meeeow meeeeeow, mew meow

are unhappy till they learn.  The first time that Kotick went down
mew meeooow meow meow meeow.  Mew meoow meow meow Meooow meow meow

to the sea a wave carried him out beyond his depth, and his big
me mew mew m meow meeeoow mew mew meooow mew meoow, mew mew mew

head sank and his little hind flippers flew up exactly as his
meow meow mew mew meeoow meow meeeeoow meow me meoooow me mew

mother had told him in the song, and if the next wave had not
meeeow mew meow mew me mew meow, mew me mew meow meow mew mew

thrown him back again he would have drowned.
meeeow mew meow meoow me meeow meow meeooow.




After that, he learned to lie in a beach pool and let the wash
Meeow meow, me meoooow me mew me m meeow meow mew mew mew meow

of the waves just cover him and lift him up while he paddled, but
me mew meoow meow meeow mew mew meow mew me meoow me meeeeow, mew

he always kept his eye open for big waves that might hurt.  He was
me meeoow meow mew mew meow mew mew meoow meow meoow meow.  Me mew

two weeks learning to use his flippers; and all that while he
mew meeow meooooow me mew mew meeoooow; mew mew meow meoow me

floundered in and out of the water, and coughed and grunted and
meeeooooow me mew mew me mew meeow, mew meeooow mew meoooow mew

crawled up the beach and took catnaps on the sand, and went back
meoooow me mew meoow mew meow meeeoow me mew meow, mew meow meow

again, until at last he found that he truly belonged to the water.
meoow, meoow me meow me meeow meow me meeow meeeooow me mew meeow.




Then you can imagine the times that he had with his
Meow mew mew meeeeow mew meeow meow me mew meow mew

companions, ducking under the rollers; or coming in on top of a
meooooooow, meoooow meoow mew meeooow; me meeoow me me mew me m

comber and landing with a swash and a splutter as the big wave
meeoow mew meeeoow meow m meeow mew m meeeeoow me mew mew meow

went whirling far up the beach; or standing up on his tail and
meow meeoooow mew me mew meeow; me meeoooow me me mew meow mew

scratching his head as the old people did; or playing "I'm the
meeeeeeeow mew meow me mew mew meeeow mew; me meoooow "M'm mew

King of the Castle" on slippery, weedy rocks that just stuck out
Meow me mew Meeeow" me meeeeoow, meoow meeow meow meow meoow mew

of the wash.  Now and then he would see a thin fin, like a big
me mew meow.  Mew mew meow me meoow mew m meow mew, meow m mew

shark's fin, drifting along close to shore, and he knew that that
meoow'm mew, meooooow meoow meoow me meeow, mew me meow meow meow

was the Killer Whale, the Grampus, who eats young seals when he
mew mew Meeeow Meeow, mew Meoooow, mew meow meeow meeow meow me

can get them; and Kotick would head for the beach like an arrow,
mew mew meow; mew Meooow meeow meow mew mew meeow meow me meeow,

and the fin would jig off slowly, as if it were looking for
mew mew mew meoow mew mew meeoow, me me me meow meeeoow mew

nothing at all.
meeeoow me mew.




Late in October the seals began to leave St. Paul's for the
Meow me Meeeoow mew meoow meoow me meoow Me. Meow'm mew mew

deep sea, by families and tribes, and there was no more fighting
meow mew, me meeeeeow mew meeoow, mew meoow mew me meow meeoooow

over the nurseries, and the holluschickie played anywhere they
meow mew meoooooow, mew mew meeeeooooooow meooow meooooow meow

liked.  "Next year," said Matkah to Kotick, "you will be a
meeow.  "Meow meow," meow Meeeow me Meooow, "mew meow me m

holluschickie; but this year you must learn how to catch fish."
meeeoooooooow; mew meow meow mew meow meeow mew me meeow meow."




They set out together across the Pacific, and Matkah showed
Meow mew mew meooooow meeoow mew Meeeoow, mew Meeeow meeeow

Kotick how to sleep on his back with his flippers tucked down by
Meeeow mew me meeow me mew meow meow mew meeeeeow meooow meow me

his side and his little nose just out of the water.  No cradle is
mew meow mew mew meeeow meow meow mew me mew meeow.  Me meeoow me

so comfortable as the long, rocking swell of the Pacific.  When
me meeeeeeeeow me mew meow, meeeeow meeow me mew Meoooow.  Meow

Kotick felt his skin tingle all over, Matkah told him he was
Meeoow meow mew meow meooow mew meow, Meooow meow mew me mew

learning the "feel of the water," and that tingly, prickly
meeoooow mew "meow me mew meeow," mew meow meooow, meeeeow

feelings meant bad weather coming, and he must swim hard and get
meooooow meoow mew meeeeow meeoow, mew me meow meow meow mew mew

away.
meow.




"In a little time," she said, "you'll know where to swim to,
"Me m meeeow meow," mew meow, "mew'me meow meoow me meow me,

but just now we'll follow Sea Pig, the Porpoise, for he is very
mew meow mew me'me meooow Mew Mew, mew Meeoooow, mew me me meow

wise."  A school of porpoises were ducking and tearing through the
meow."  M meooow me meeeeooow meow meeeeow mew meeeeow meeeoow mew

water, and little Kotick followed them as fast as he could.  "How
meoow, mew meeeow Meooow meeoooow meow me meow me me meoow.  "Mew

do you know where to go to?" he panted.  The leader of the school
me mew meow meoow me me me?" me meeoow.  Mew meeoow me mew meeoow

rolled his white eye and ducked under.  "My tail tingles,
meeoow mew meoow mew mew meooow meeow.  "Me meow meeooow,

youngster," he said.  "That means there's a gale behind me.  Come
meeooooow," me meow.  "Meow meoow meeow'm m meow meeeow me.  Meow

along!  When you're south of the Sticky Water [he meant the
meoow!  Meow mew'me meoow me mew Meeeow Meoow [me meoow mew

Equator] and your tail tingles, that means there's a gale in front
Meeooow] mew meow meow meeeeow, meow meoow meoow'm m meow me meeow

of you and you must head north.  Come along!  The water feels bad
me mew mew mew meow meow meoow.  Meow meeow!  Mew meoow meeow mew

here."
meow."




This was one of very many things that Kotick learned, and he
Meow mew mew me meow meow meooow meow Meooow meeooow, mew me

was always learning.  Matkah taught him to follow the cod and the
mew meeoow meeoooow.  Meeeow meeoow mew me meeoow mew mew mew mew

halibut along the under-sea banks and wrench the rockling out of
meeooow meoow mew meoow-mew meoow mew meeoow mew meeeeeow mew me

his hole among the weeds; how to skirt the wrecks lying a hundred
mew meow meoow mew meeow; mew me meoow mew meooow meeow m meoooow

fathoms below water and dart like a rifle bullet in at one
meoooow meeow meoow mew meow meow m meoow meeoow me me mew

porthole and out at another as the fishes ran; how to dance on the
meeoooow mew mew me meeeoow me mew meeoow mew; mew me meoow me mew

top of the waves when the lightning was racing all over the sky,
mew me mew meeow meow mew meeeeeoow mew meeeow mew meow mew mew,

and wave his flipper politely to the stumpy-tailed Albatross and
mew meow mew meeooow meeeeoow me mew meeoow-meooow Meeeoooow mew

the Man-of-war Hawk as they went down the wind; how to jump three
mew Mew-me-mew Meow me meow meow meow mew meow; mew me meow meeow

or four feet clear of the water like a dolphin, flippers close to
me meow meow meeow me mew meoow meow m meeeeow, meooooow meoow me

the side and tail curved; to leave the flying fish alone because
mew meow mew meow meeoow; me meeow mew meooow meow meeow meeeoow

they are all bony; to take the shoulder-piece out of a cod at full
meow mew mew meow; me meow mew meeeooow-meeow mew me m mew me meow

speed ten fathoms deep, and never to stop and look at a boat or a
meoow mew meeeeow meow, mew meoow me meow mew meow me m meow me m

ship, but particularly a row-boat.  At the end of six months what
meow, mew meeeeeeeooow m mew-meow.  Me mew mew me mew meooow meow

Kotick did not know about deep-sea fishing was not worth the
Meooow mew mew meow meoow meow-mew meeeoow mew mew meoow mew

knowing.  And all that time he never set flipper on dry ground.
meoooow.  Mew mew meow meow me meoow mew meeeoow me mew meooow.




One day, however, as he was lying half asleep in the warm
Mew mew, meoooow, me me mew meoow meow meeeow me mew meow

water somewhere off the Island of Juan Fernandez, he felt faint
meeow meeeeooow mew mew Meeoow me Meow Meeeeooow, me meow meoow

and lazy all over, just as human people do when the spring is in
mew meow mew meow, meow me meeow meeeow me meow mew meeeow me me

their legs, and he remembered the good firm beaches of
meeow meow, mew me meeeeeooow mew meow meow meeooow me

Novastoshnah seven thousand miles away, the games his companions
Meeeeeeeooow meoow meeeeoow meoow meow, mew meeow mew meeeeeeoow

played, the smell of the seaweed, the seal roar, and the fighting.
meooow, mew meoow me mew meeeoow, mew meow meow, mew mew meeoooow.

That very minute he turned north, swimming steadily, and as he
Meow meow meooow me meeoow meeow, meooooow meeeooow, mew me me

went on he met scores of his mates, all bound for the same place,
meow me me mew meeeow me mew meeow, mew meoow mew mew meow meoow,

and they said: "Greeting, Kotick!  This year we are all
mew meow meow: "Meeeooow, Meeeow!  Meow meow me mew mew

holluschickie, and we can dance the Fire-dance in the breakers off
meoooooooooow, mew me mew meoow mew Meow-meeow me mew meeoooow mew

Lukannon and play on the new grass.  But where did you get that
Meooooow mew meow me mew mew meeow.  Mew meoow mew mew mew meow

coat?"
meow?"




Kotick's fur was almost pure white now, and though he felt
Meeoow'm mew mew meeoow meow meoow mew, mew meeeow me meow

very proud of it, he only said, "Swim quickly!  My bones are
meow meoow me me, me meow meow, "Meow meoooow!  Me meeow mew

aching for the land."  And so they all came to the beaches where
meeeow mew mew meow."  Mew me meow mew meow me mew meeooow meoow

they had been born, and heard the old seals, their fathers,
meow mew meow meow, mew meeow mew mew meeow, meoow meeeeow,

fighting in the rolling mist.
meeeeoow me mew meeeoow meow.




That night Kotick danced the Fire-dance with the yearling
Meow meeow Meeeow meeoow mew Meow-meeow meow mew meeeooow

seals.  The sea is full of fire on summer nights all the way down
meeow.  Mew mew me meow me meow me meooow meeoow mew mew mew meow

from Novastoshnah to Lukannon, and each seal leaves a wake like
meow Meooooooooow me Meeeooow, mew meow meow meeoow m meow meow

burning oil behind him and a flaming flash when he jumps, and the
meeeoow mew meooow mew mew m meeeeow meeow meow me meeow, mew mew

waves break in great phosphorescent streaks and swirls.  Then they
meoow meeow me meoow meeeeeeeeeooow meeeeow mew meooow.  Meow meow

went inland to the holluschickie grounds and rolled up and down in
meow meeoow me mew meeeeeeeeeoow meoooow mew meooow me mew meow me

the new wild wheat and told stories of what they had done while
mew mew meow meeow mew meow meeooow me meow meow mew meow meoow

they had been at sea.  They talked about the Pacific as boys would
meow mew meow me mew.  Meow meeeow meoow mew Meeeeow me meow meoow

talk about a wood that they had been nutting in, and if anyone had
meow meoow m meow meow meow mew meow meoooow me, mew me meooow mew

understood them he could have gone away and made such a chart of
meeeeoooow meow me meeow meow meow meow mew meow meow m meoow me

that ocean as never was.  The three- and four-year-old
meow meeow me meeow mew.  Mew meeow- mew meow-meow-mew

holluschickie romped down from Hutchinson's Hill crying: "Out of
meoooooooooow meeoow meow meow Meeeeoooow'm Meow meeeow: "Mew me

the way, youngsters!  The sea is deep and you don't know all
mew mew, meeeeeeeow!  Mew mew me meow mew mew mew'm meow mew

that's in it yet.  Wait till you've rounded the Horn.  Hi, you
meow'm me me mew.  Meow meow mew'me meeeoow mew Meow.  Me, mew

yearling, where did you get that white coat?"
meooooow, meoow mew mew mew meow meeow meow?"




"I didn't get it," said Kotick.  "It grew."  And just as he
"M meow'm mew me," meow Meeeow.  "Me meow."  Mew meow me me

was going to roll the speaker over, a couple of black-haired men
mew meeow me meow mew meeeeow meow, m meooow me meeow-meeoow mew

with flat red faces came from behind a sand dune, and Kotick, who
meow meow mew meoow meow meow meooow m meow meow, mew Meeeow, mew

had never seen a man before, coughed and lowered his head.  The
mew meeow meow m mew meeoow, meeeoow mew meoooow mew meow.  Mew

holluschickie just bundled off a few yards and sat staring
meoooooooooow meow meeeoow mew m mew meoow mew mew meeooow

stupidly.  The men were no less than Kerick Booterin, the chief of
meeeooow.  Mew mew meow me meow meow Meeoow Meeoooow, mew meoow me

the seal-hunters on the island, and Patalamon, his son.  They came
mew meow-meeeoow me mew meeeow, mew Meeeeeoow, mew mew.  Meow meow

from the little village not half a mile from the sea nurseries,
meow mew meooow meeeeow mew meow m meow meow mew mew meeeeeeow,

and they were deciding what seals they would drive up to the
mew meow meow meeeeeow meow meoow meow meoow meeow me me mew

killing pens--for the seals were driven just like sheep--to be
meeooow meow--mew mew meoow meow meeoow meow meow meeow--me me

turned into seal-skin jackets later on.
meeeow meow meow-meow meoooow meoow me.




"Ho!" said Patalamon.  "Look!  There's a white seal!"
"Me!" meow Meeeeeeow.  "Meow!  Meoow'm m meeow meow!"




Kerick Booterin turned nearly white under his oil and smoke,
Meooow Meeeeoow meeoow meooow meeow meeow mew mew mew meoow,

for he was an Aleut, and Aleuts are not clean people.  Then he
mew me mew me Meoow, mew Meeeow mew mew meeow meooow.  Meow me

began to mutter a prayer.  "Don't touch him, Patalamon.  There has
meoow me meooow m meooow.  "Mew'm meeow mew, Meeeeeeow.  Meeow mew

never been a white seal since--since I was born.  Perhaps it is
meoow meow m meeow meow meoow--meeow M mew meow.  Meeeeow me me

old Zaharrof's ghost.  He was lost last year in the big gale."
mew Meeeeeow'm meoow.  Me mew meow meow meow me mew mew meow."




"I'm not going near him," said Patalamon.  "He's unlucky.  Do
"M'm mew meeow meow mew," meow Meeeeooow.  "Me'm meoooow.  Me

you really think he is old Zaharrof come back?  I owe him for some
mew meeeow meeow me me mew Meeeooow meow meow?  M mew mew mew meow

gulls' eggs."
meeow' meow."




"Don't look at him," said Kerick.  "Head off that drove of
"Mew'm meow me mew," meow Meeoow.  "Meow mew meow meoow me

four-year-olds.  The men ought to skin two hundred to-day, but
meow-meow-meow.  Mew mew meoow me meow mew meeeeow me-mew, mew

it's the beginning of the season and they are new to the work.  A
me'm mew meoooooow me mew meeeow mew meow mew mew me mew meow.  M

hundred will do.  Quick!"
meeeoow meow me.  Meeow!"




Patalamon rattled a pair of seal's shoulder bones in front of
Meoooooow meeeoow m meow me meow'm meeeooow meeow me meeow me

a herd of holluschickie and they stopped dead, puffing and
m meow me meeeeeoooooow mew meow meoooow meow, meeeeow mew

blowing.  Then he stepped near and the seals began to move, and
meoooow.  Meow me meeeoow meow mew mew meeow meeow me meow, mew

Kerick headed them inland, and they never tried to get back to
Meooow meooow meow meeeow, mew meow meeow meoow me mew meow me

their companions.  Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of seals
meoow meeeeeeeow.  Meeeeeow mew meeeooow me meeeeeeow me meeow

watched them being driven, but they went on playing just the same.
meeooow meow meoow meeeow, mew meow meow me meeeoow meow mew meow.

Kotick was the only one who asked questions, and none of his
Meeeow mew mew meow mew mew meeow meeeoooow, mew meow me mew

companions could tell him anything, except that the men always
meeeooooow meoow meow mew meeeeoow, meeeow meow mew mew meeeow

drove seals in that way for six weeks or two months of every year.
meeow meoow me meow mew mew mew meoow me mew meeoow me meoow meow.




"I am going to follow," he said, and his eyes nearly popped
"M me meoow me meooow," me meow, mew mew meow meeeow meeoow

out of his head as he shuffled along in the wake of the herd.
mew me mew meow me me meooooow meeow me mew meow me mew meow.




"The white seal is coming after us," cried Patalamon.  "That's
"Mew meoow meow me meeoow meeow me," meoow Meeeeeeow.  "Meow'm

the first time a seal has ever come to the killing-grounds alone."
mew meoow meow m meow mew meow meow me mew meoooow-meeooow meoow."




"Hsh!  Don't look behind you," said Kerick.  "It is Zaharrof's
"Mew!  Mew'm meow meooow mew," meow Meeoow.  "Me me Meeeeeow'm

ghost!  I must speak to the priest about this."
meoow!  M meow meoow me mew meeoow meeow meow."




The distance to the killing-grounds was only half a mile, but
Mew meeeeeow me mew meeeoow-meeeeow mew meow meow m meow, mew

it took an hour to cover, because if the seals went too fast
me meow me meow me meeow, meeooow me mew meeow meow mew meow

Kerick knew that they would get heated and then their fur would
Meooow meow meow meow meoow mew meooow mew meow meoow mew meeow

come off in patches when they were skinned.  So they went on very
meow mew me meeeeow meow meow meow meeooow.  Me meow meow me meow

slowly, past Sea Lion's Neck, past Webster House, till they came
meooow, meow Mew Meow'm Meow, meow Meeeoow Meoow, meow meow meow

to the Salt House just beyond the sight of the seals on the beach.
me mew Meow Meoow meow meeoow mew meoow me mew meeow me mew meoow.

Kotick followed, panting and wondering.  He thought that he was at
Meooow meeeooow, meeeeow mew meeeeeeow.  Me meeeeow meow me mew me

the world's end, but the roar of the seal nurseries behind him
mew meeow'm mew, mew mew meow me mew meow meeeeooow meeoow mew

sounded as loud as the roar of a train in a tunnel.  Then Kerick
meeeeow me meow me mew meow me m meeow me m meooow.  Meow Meeoow

sat down on the moss and pulled out a heavy pewter watch and let
mew meow me mew meow mew meooow mew m meoow meooow meeow mew mew

the drove cool off for thirty minutes, and Kotick could hear the
mew meeow meow mew mew meooow meeeeow, mew Meeeow meoow meow mew

fog-dew dripping off the brim of his cap.  Then ten or twelve men,
mew-mew meeeeeow mew mew meow me mew mew.  Meow mew me meeeow mew,

each with an iron-bound club three or four feet long, came up, and
meow meow me meow-meoow meow meeow me meow meow meow, meow me, mew

Kerick pointed out one or two of the drove that were bitten by
Meooow meeooow mew mew me mew me mew meeow meow meow meeeow me

their companions or too hot, and the men kicked those aside with
meeow meooooooow me mew mew, mew mew mew meooow meoow meeow meow

their heavy boots made of the skin of a walrus's throat, and then
meoow meeow meoow meow me mew meow me m meeeow'm meeoow, mew meow

Kerick said, "Let go!" and then the men clubbed the seals on the
Meeoow meow, "Mew me!" mew meow mew mew meeeoow mew meoow me mew

head as fast as they could.
meow me meow me meow meoow.




Ten minutes later little Kotick did not recognize his friends
Mew meeeeow meoow meeeow Meeoow mew mew meeeeooow mew meeooow

any more, for their skins were ripped off from the nose to the
mew meow, mew meeow meeow meow meooow mew meow mew meow me mew

hind flippers, whipped off and thrown down on the ground in a
meow meeoooow, meeeoow mew mew meeoow meow me mew meeoow me m

pile.  That was enough for Kotick.  He turned and galloped (a seal
meow.  Meow mew meooow mew Meeeow.  Me meeeow mew meeeeeow (m meow

can gallop very swiftly for a short time) back to the sea; his
mew meeoow meow meeeeow mew m meoow meow) meow me mew mew; mew

little new mustache bristling with horror.  At Sea Lion's Neck,
meeeow mew meeeeeow meeeoooow meow meooow.  Me Mew Meow'm Meow,

where the great sea lions sit on the edge of the surf, he flung
meoow mew meeow mew meoow mew me mew meow me mew meow, me meoow

himself flipper-overhead into the cool water and rocked there,
meeooow meeeeow-meeeeoow meow mew meow meeow mew meooow meoow,

gasping miserably.  "What's here?" said a sea lion gruffly, for as
meeeeow meeooooow.  "Meow'm meow?" meow m mew meow meeooow, mew me

a rule the sea lions keep themselves to themselves.
m meow mew mew meeow meow meeeooooow me meeeeeeoow.




"Scoochnie!  Ochen scoochnie!"  ("I'm lonesome, very
"Meeeoooow!  Meoow meeeeeoow!"  ("M'm meooooow, meow

lonesome!") said Kotick.  "They're killing all the holluschickie
meeeooow!") meow Meeoow.  "Meow'me meeeoow mew mew meeeeeeeeeoow

on all the beaches!"
me mew mew meeeeow!"




The Sea Lion turned his head inshore.  "Nonsense!" he said.
Mew Mew Meow meeoow mew meow meoooow.  "Meeeeoow!" me meow.

"Your friends are making as much noise as ever.  You must have
"Meow meeeoow mew meooow me meow meoow me meow.  Mew meow meow

seen old Kerick polishing off a drove.  He's done that for thirty
meow mew Meeeow meeeeeeow mew m meeow.  Me'm meow meow mew meooow

years."
meoow."




"It's horrible," said Kotick, backing water as a wave went
"Me'm meeeooow," meow Meeoow, meoooow meeow me m meow meow

over him, and steadying himself with a screw stroke of his
meow mew, mew meeooooow meeeoow meow m meeow meooow me mew

flippers that brought him all standing within three inches of a
meooooow meow meoooow mew mew meeoooow meeoow meoow meooow me m

jagged edge of rock.
meooow meow me meow.




"Well done for a yearling!" said the Sea Lion, who could
"Meow meow mew m meeeeoow!" meow mew Mew Meow, mew meoow

appreciate good swimming.  "I suppose it is rather awful from your
meeoooooow meow meeoooow.  "M meeeeow me me meeoow meoow meow meow

way of looking at it, but if you seals will come here year after
mew me meeooow me me, mew me mew meoow meow meow meow meow meeow

year, of course the men get to know of it, and unless you can find
meow, me meooow mew mew mew me meow me me, mew meeeow mew mew meow

an island where no men ever come you will always be driven."
me meeeow meeow me mew meow meow mew meow meeeow me meooow."




"Isn't there any such island?" began Kotick.
"Mew'm meoow mew meow meooow?" meeow Meeoow.




"I've followed the poltoos [the halibut] for twenty years, and
"M'me meeeeeow mew meoooow [mew meoooow] mew meooow meoow, mew

I can't say I've found it yet.  But look here--you seem to have
M mew'm mew M'me meeow me mew.  Mew meow meow--mew meow me meow

a fondness for talking to your betters--suppose you go to Walrus
m meooooow mew meeeeow me meow meoooow--meeeoow mew me me Meooow

Islet and talk to Sea Vitch.  He may know something.  Don't
Meeow mew meow me Mew Meeow.  Me mew meow meeeoooow.  Mew'm

flounce off like that.  It's a six-mile swim, and if I were you I
meoooow mew meow meow.  Me'm m mew-meow meow, mew me M meow mew M

should haul out and take a nap first, little one."
meooow meow mew mew meow m mew meeow, meooow mew."




Kotick thought that that was good advice, so he swam round to
Meeoow meeeoow meow meow mew meow meeoow, me me meow meoow me

his own beach, hauled out, and slept for half an hour, twitching
mew mew meoow, meeoow mew, mew meoow mew meow me meow, meeeeeeow

all over, as seals will.  Then he headed straight for Walrus
mew meow, me meeow meow.  Meow me meooow meeoooow mew Meeeow

Islet, a little low sheet of rocky island almost due northeast
Meeow, m meeeow mew meoow me meeow meeeow meooow mew meeeoooow

from Novastoshnah, all ledges and rock and gulls' nests, where the
meow Meeeeeeeeoow, mew meeoow mew meow mew meeow' meoow, meeow mew

walrus herded by themselves.
meeoow meooow me meeeeeooow.




He landed close to old Sea Vitch--the big, ugly, bloated,
Me meeeow meeow me mew Mew Meeow--mew mew, meow, meoooow,

pimpled, fat-necked, long-tusked walrus of the North Pacific, who
meeeeow, mew-meeeow, meow-meeeow meeeow me mew Meoow Meeeeow, mew

has no manners except when he is asleep--as he was then, with
mew me meeeeow meeeow meow me me meooow--me me mew meow, meow

his hind flippers half in and half out of the surf.
mew meow meeeeoow meow me mew meow mew me mew meow.




"Wake up!" barked Kotick, for the gulls were making a great
"Meow me!" meooow Meeeow, mew mew meoow meow meeeow m meoow

noise.
meeow.




"Hah!  Ho!  Hmph!  What's that?" said Sea Vitch, and he struck
"Mew!  Me!  Meow!  Meow'm meow?" meow Mew Meeow, mew me meeoow

the next walrus a blow with his tusks and waked him up, and the
mew meow meeeow m meow meow mew meoow mew meeow mew me, mew mew

next struck the next, and so on till they were all awake and
meow meooow mew meow, mew me me meow meow meow mew meeow mew

staring in every direction but the right one.
meeooow me meoow meeeeeeow mew mew meeow mew.




"Hi!  It's me," said Kotick, bobbing in the surf and looking
"Me!  Me'm me," meow Meeoow, meeeoow me mew meow mew meeeeow

like a little white slug.
meow m meeoow meeow meow.




"Well!  May I be--skinned!" said Sea Vitch, and they all
"Meow!  Mew M me--meeeoow!" meow Mew Meeow, mew meow mew

looked at Kotick as you can fancy a club full of drowsy old
meooow me Meooow me mew mew meoow m meow meow me meeeow mew

gentlemen would look at a little boy.  Kotick did not care to hear
meeeeeoow meoow meow me m meeeow mew.  Meeoow mew mew meow me meow

any more about skinning just then; he had seen enough of it.  So
mew meow meeow meeeooow meow meow; me mew meow meeoow me me.  Me

he called out: "Isn't there any place for seals to go where men
me meooow mew: "Mew'm meeow mew meeow mew meeow me me meoow mew

don't ever come?"
mew'm meow meow?"




"Go and find out," said Sea Vitch, shutting his eyes.  "Run
"Me mew meow mew," meow Mew Meoow, meooooow mew meow.  "Mew

away.  We're busy here."
meow.  Me'me meow meow."




Kotick made his dolphin-jump in the air and shouted as loud as
Meeeow meow mew meeeeow-meow me mew mew mew meeeeow me meow me

he could: "Clam-eater!  Clam-eater!"  He knew that Sea Vitch never
me meeow: "Meow-meoow!  Meow-meoow!"  Me meow meow Mew Meoow meoow

caught a fish in his life but always rooted for clams and seaweed;
meooow m meow me mew meow mew meooow meeeow mew meeow mew meeooow;

though he pretended to be a very terrible person.  Naturally the
meeoow me meeeeeeow me me m meow meeoooow meeeow.  Meeooooow mew

Chickies and the Gooverooskies and the Epatkas--the Burgomaster
Meeoooow mew mew Meeeeeeeoooow mew mew Meeeeow--mew Meeeeeoooow

Gulls and the Kittiwakes and the Puffins, who are always looking
Meoow mew mew Meeeeeeoow mew mew Meeooow, mew mew meooow meoooow

for a chance to be rude, took up the cry, and--so Limmershin
mew m meeoow me me meow, meow me mew mew, mew--me Meeoooooow

told me--for nearly five minutes you could not have heard a gun
meow me--mew meooow meow meeeeow mew meoow mew meow meoow m mew

fired on Walrus Islet.  All the population was yelling and
meoow me Meeeow Meoow.  Mew mew meeeeoooow mew meeeeow mew

screaming "Clam-eater!  Stareek [old man]!" while Sea Vitch rolled
meoooooow "Meow-meeow!  Meoooow [mew mew]!" meeow Mew Meeow meeeow

from side to side grunting and coughing.
meow meow me meow meeeeoow mew meeeooow.




"Now will you tell?" said Kotick, all out of breath.
"Mew meow mew meow?" meow Meooow, mew mew me meeeow.




"Go and ask Sea Cow," said Sea Vitch.  "If he is living still,
"Me mew mew Mew Mew," meow Mew Meoow.  "Me me me meeoow meeow,

he'll be able to tell you."
me'me me meow me meow mew."




"How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him?" said Kotick,
"Mew meoow M meow Mew Mew meow M meow mew?" meow Meeoow,

sheering off.
meooooow mew.




"He's the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch,"
"Me'm mew meow meoow me mew mew meooow meow Mew Meeow,"

screamed a Burgomaster gull, wheeling under Sea Vitch's nose.
meeoooow m Meeeeeeeoow meow, meeeeeow meoow Mew Meoow'm meow.

"Uglier, and with worse manners!  Stareek!"
"Meeeow, mew meow meoow meeeoow!  Meoooow!"




Kotick swam back to Novastoshnah, leaving the gulls to scream.
Meeoow meow meow me Meeeeoooooow, meeooow mew meeow me meeeow.

There he found that no one sympathized with him in his little
Meeow me meoow meow me mew meeeeooooow meow mew me mew meooow

attempt to discover a quiet place for the seals.  They told him
meeeoow me meeoooow m meeow meeow mew mew meoow.  Meow meow mew

that men had always driven the holluschickie--it was part of the
meow mew mew meeeow meeeow mew meeeoooooooow--me mew meow me mew

day's work--and that if he did not like to see ugly things he
mew'm meow--mew meow me me mew mew meow me mew meow meeeow me

should not have gone to the killing grounds.  But none of the
meeeow mew meow meow me mew meeeeow meeeoow.  Mew meow me mew

other seals had seen the killing, and that made the difference
meeow meoow mew meow mew meeeeow, mew meow meow mew meeeeeeoow

between him and his friends.  Besides, Kotick was a white seal.
meeooow mew mew mew meeeeow.  Meeooow, Meeeow mew m meeow meow.




"What you must do," said old Sea Catch, after he had heard his
"Meow mew meow me," meow mew Mew Meeow, meoow me mew meeow mew

son's adventures, "is to grow up and be a big seal like your
mew'm meeeooooow, "me me meow me mew me m mew meow meow meow

father, and have a nursery on the beach, and then they will leave
meooow, mew meow m meeooow me mew meeow, mew meow meow meow meoow

you alone.  In another five years you ought to be able to fight
mew meoow.  Me meeeeow meow meoow mew meeow me me meow me meeow

for yourself."  Even gentle Matkah, his mother, said: "You will
mew meeeeeow."  Meow meooow Meeeow, mew meooow, meow: "Mew meow

never be able to stop the killing.  Go and play in the sea,
meoow me meow me meow mew meeeeow.  Me mew meow me mew mew,

Kotick."  And Kotick went off and danced the Fire-dance with a
Meeeow."  Mew Meeoow meow mew mew meeoow mew Meow-meeow meow m

very heavy little heart.
meow meeow meeoow meeow.




That autumn he left the beach as soon as he could, and set off
Meow meeoow me meow mew meoow me meow me me meoow, mew mew mew

alone because of a notion in his bullet-head.  He was going to
meoow meeeeow me m meeeow me mew meeeow-meow.  Me mew meoow me

find Sea Cow, if there was such a person in the sea, and he was
meow Mew Mew, me meoow mew meow m meeoow me mew mew, mew me mew

going to find a quiet island with good firm beaches for seals to
meeow me meow m meoow meooow meow meow meow meeeoow mew meoow me

live on, where men could not get at them.  So he explored and
meow me, meeow mew meeow mew mew me meow.  Me me meooooow mew

explored by himself from the North to the South Pacific, swimming
meooooow me meeooow meow mew Meeow me mew Meoow Meeeeow, meeeeoow

as much as three hundred miles in a day and a night.  He met with
me meow me meeow meeooow meeow me m mew mew m meeow.  Me mew meow

more adventures than can be told, and narrowly escaped being
meow meeeeeeoow meow mew me meow, mew meooooow meeeeow meeow

caught by the Basking Shark, and the Spotted Shark, and the
meeeow me mew Meeooow Meoow, mew mew Meeooow Meeow, mew mew

Hammerhead, and he met all the untrustworthy ruffians that loaf up
Meeeeeeoow, mew me mew mew mew meeeeeoooooow meooooow meow meow me

and down the seas, and the heavy polite fish, and the scarlet
mew meow mew meow, mew mew meoow meeeow meow, mew mew meeooow

spotted scallops that are moored in one place for hundreds of
meeeoow meeeeeow meow mew meeeow me mew meoow mew meooooow me

years, and grow very proud of it; but he never met Sea Cow, and he
meoow, mew meow meow meeow me me; mew me meeow mew Mew Mew, mew me

never found an island that he could fancy.
meeow meeow me meeeow meow me meoow meoow.




If the beach was good and hard, with a slope behind it for
Me mew meoow mew meow mew meow, meow m meeow meeeow me mew

seals to play on, there was always the smoke of a whaler on the
meeow me meow me, meoow mew meeeow mew meeow me m meooow me mew

horizon, boiling down blubber, and Kotick knew what that meant.
meeooow, meeeoow meow meoooow, mew Meooow meow meow meow meeow.

Or else he could see that seals had once visited the island and
Me meow me meeow mew meow meoow mew meow meeeeow mew meooow mew

been killed off, and Kotick knew that where men had come once they
meow meeoow mew, mew Meeoow meow meow meeow mew mew meow meow meow

would come again.
meoow meow meeow.




He picked up with an old stumpy-tailed albatross, who told him
Me meeeow me meow me mew meeeow-meeoow meeeeooow, mew meow mew

that Kerguelen Island was the very place for peace and quiet, and
meow Meeooooow Meeoow mew mew meow meeow mew meeow mew meoow, mew

when Kotick went down there he was all but smashed to pieces
meow Meeoow meow meow meeow me mew mew mew meoooow me meeeow

against some wicked black cliffs in a heavy sleet-storm with
meeeoow meow meooow meeow meooow me m meeow meoow-meeow meow

lightning and thunder.  Yet as he pulled out against the gale he
meeeeeeow mew meoooow.  Mew me me meeeow mew meeooow mew meow me

could see that even there had once been a seal nursery.  And it
meoow mew meow meow meoow mew meow meow m meow meeeeow.  Mew me

was so in all the other islands that he visited.
mew me me mew mew meeow meoooow meow me meeeeow.




Limmershin gave a long list of them, for he said that Kotick
Meeeeeooow meow m meow meow me meow, mew me meow meow Meooow

spent five seasons exploring, with a four months' rest each year
meeow meow meoooow meeeeeoow, meow m meow meeeow' meow meow meow

at Novastoshnah, when the holluschickie used to make fun of him
me Meooooooooow, meow mew meeeeeeooooow meow me meow mew me mew

and his imaginary islands.  He went to the Gallapagos, a horrid
mew mew meeeeeoow meeooow.  Me meow me mew Meeeeoooow, m meeeow

dry place on the Equator, where he was nearly baked to death; he
mew meoow me mew Meeeoow, meeow me mew meeoow meeow me meoow; me

went to the Georgia Islands, the Orkneys, Emerald Island, Little
meow me mew Meeeeow Meeeeow, mew Meoooow, Meeooow Meeeow, Meeeow

Nightingale Island, Gough's Island, Bouvet's Island, the Crossets,
Meeeoooooow Meeoow, Meeow'm Meooow, Meeoow'm Meooow, mew Meeoooow,

and even to a little speck of an island south of the Cape of Good
mew meow me m meeoow meeow me me meeeow meoow me mew Meow me Meow

Hope.  But everywhere the People of the Sea told him the same
Meow.  Mew meeeeeooow mew Meooow me mew Mew meow mew mew meow

things.  Seals had come to those islands once upon a time, but men
meooow.  Meoow mew meow me meoow meeooow meow meow m meow, mew mew

had killed them all off.  Even when he swam thousands of miles out
mew meeoow meow mew mew.  Meow meow me meow meeeeeoow me meoow mew

of the Pacific and got to a place called Cape Corrientes (that was
me mew Meeooow mew mew me m meeow meeeow Meow Meeeeeeoow (meow mew

when he was coming back from Gough's Island), he found a few
meow me mew meeeow meow meow Meeow'm Meooow), me meeow m mew

hundred mangy seals on a rock and they told him that men came
meoooow meeow meeow me m meow mew meow meow mew meow mew meow

there too.
meeow mew.




That nearly broke his heart, and he headed round the Horn back
Meow meeoow meoow mew meeow, mew me meeeow meeow mew Meow meow

to his own beaches; and on his way north he hauled out on an
me mew mew meeeoow; mew me mew mew meeow me meeeow mew me me

island full of green trees, where he found an old, old seal who
meeeow meow me meoow meeow, meeow me meeow me mew, mew meow mew

was dying, and Kotick caught fish for him and told him all his
mew meeow, mew Meeeow meooow meow mew mew mew meow mew mew mew

sorrows.  "Now," said Kotick, "I am going back to Novastoshnah,
meoooow.  "Mew," meow Meeoow, "M me meoow meow me Meeeeeeeeoow,

and if I am driven to the killing-pens with the holluschickie I
mew me M me meeoow me mew meeooow-meow meow mew meeeeeeeeooow M

shall not care."
meeow mew meow."




The old seal said, "Try once more.  I am the last of the Lost
Mew mew meow meow, "Mew meow meow.  M me mew meow me mew Meow

Rookery of Masafuera, and in the days when men killed us by the
Meeeeow me Meeeeooow, mew me mew meow meow mew meooow me me mew

hundred thousand there was a story on the beaches that some day a
meeooow meeeooow meoow mew m meoow me mew meeeoow meow meow mew m

white seal would come out of the North and lead the seal people to
meeow meow meoow meow mew me mew Meoow mew meow mew meow meeoow me

a quiet place.  I am old, and I shall never live to see that day,
m meoow meoow.  M me mew, mew M meoow meeow meow me mew meow mew,

but others will.  Try once more."
mew meeoow meow.  Mew meow meow."




And Kotick curled up his mustache (it was a beauty) and said,
Mew Meeeow meooow me mew meooooow (me mew m meooow) mew meow,

"I am the only white seal that has ever been born on the beaches,
"M me mew meow meeow meow meow mew meow meow meow me mew meoooow,

and I am the only seal, black or white, who ever thought of
mew M me mew meow meow, meoow me meoow, mew meow meoooow me

looking for new islands."
meeeoow mew mew meeeoow."




This cheered him immensely; and when he came back to
Meow meoooow mew meeooooow; mew meow me meow meow me

Novastoshnah that summer, Matkah, his mother, begged him to marry
Meeeeeeeeeow meow meeoow, Meeoow, mew meooow, meeoow mew me meoow

and settle down, for he was no longer a holluschick but a
mew meeeow meow, mew me mew me meeeow m meeeeooooow mew m

full-grown sea-catch, with a curly white mane on his shoulders, as
meow-meoow mew-meoow, meow m meeow meoow meow me mew meoooooow, me

heavy, as big, and as fierce as his father.  "Give me another
meeow, me mew, mew me meooow me mew meeeow.  "Meow me meoooow

season," he said.  "Remember, Mother, it is always the seventh
meeoow," me meow.  "Meeoooow, Meeoow, me me meooow mew meeooow

wave that goes farthest up the beach."
meow meow meow meeeooow me mew meoow."




Curiously enough, there was another seal who thought that she
Meeeeooow meeeow, meeow mew meeeoow meow mew meeeeow meow mew

would put off marrying till the next year, and Kotick danced the
meeow mew mew meooooow meow mew meow meow, mew Meeoow meeeow mew

Fire-dance with her all down Lukannon Beach the night before he
Meow-meeow meow mew mew meow Meeeeoow Meoow mew meeow meeoow me

set off on his last exploration.  This time he went westward,
mew mew me mew meow meeeeeeeeow.  Meow meow me meow meooooow,

because he had fallen on the trail of a great shoal of halibut,
meoooow me mew meeeow me mew meeow me m meoow meoow me meeooow,

and he needed at least one hundred pounds of fish a day to keep
mew me meeeow me meoow mew meeooow meeeow me meow m mew me meow

him in good condition.  He chased them till he was tired, and then
mew me meow meeooooow.  Me meeoow meow meow me mew meoow, mew meow

he curled himself up and went to sleep on the hollows of the
me meeoow meeeoow me mew meow me meoow me mew meeooow me mew

ground swell that sets in to Copper Island.  He knew the coast
meeoow meoow meow meow me me Meeoow Meeoow.  Me meow mew meeow

perfectly well, so about midnight, when he felt himself gently
meeeeeeow meow, me meeow meeeeeow, meow me meow meeeeow meeoow

bumped on a weed-bed, he said, "Hm, tide's running strong
meooow me m meow-mew, me meow, "Me, meow'm meeooow meooow

tonight," and turning over under water opened his eyes slowly and
meeeoow," mew meeooow meow meeow meoow meeeow mew meow meooow mew

stretched.  Then he jumped like a cat, for he saw huge things
meeeeeeow.  Meow me meeeow meow m mew, mew me mew meow meeeow

nosing about in the shoal water and browsing on the heavy fringes
meeeow meoow me mew meoow meoow mew meeeeeow me mew meeow meeeeow

of the weeds.
me mew meoow.




"By the Great Combers of Magellan!" he said, beneath his
"Me mew Meoow Meoooow me Meeoooow!" me meow, meeeoow mew

mustache.  "Who in the Deep Sea are these people?"
meeeeoow.  "Mew me mew Meow Mew mew meoow meooow?"




They were like no walrus, sea lion, seal, bear, whale, shark,
Meow meow meow me meeoow, mew meow, meow, meow, meoow, meoow,

fish, squid, or scallop that Kotick had ever seen before.  They
meow, meoow, me meoooow meow Meooow mew meow meow meeeow.  Meow

were between twenty and thirty feet long, and they had no hind
meow meeeeow meeeow mew meeoow meow meow, mew meow mew me meow

flippers, but a shovel-like tail that looked as if it had been
meeoooow, mew m meeoow-meow meow meow meooow me me me mew meow

whittled out of wet leather.  Their heads were the most
meooooow mew me mew meeeoow.  Meeow meeow meow mew meow

foolish-looking things you ever saw, and they balanced on the ends
meeeoow-meeooow meeoow mew meow mew, mew meow meeeooow me mew meow

of their tails in deep water when they weren't grazing, bowing
me meoow meeow me meow meeow meow meow meoow'm meeooow, meooow

solemnly to each other and waving their front flippers as a fat
meeeeeow me meow meeow mew meeoow meoow meeow meeeooow me m mew

man waves his arm.
mew meoow mew mew.




"Ahem!" said Kotick.  "Good sport, gentlemen?"  The big things
"Meow!" meow Meeeow.  "Meow meeow, meeeeeoow?"  Mew mew meeeow

answered by bowing and waving their flippers like the Frog
meeeeoow me meeeow mew meeoow meoow meeeeoow meow mew Meow

Footman.  When they began feeding again Kotick saw that their
Meeeeow.  Meow meow meoow meoooow meeow Meeoow mew meow meoow

upper lip was split into two pieces that they could twitch apart
meeow mew mew meoow meow mew meooow meow meow meoow meeeow meoow

about a foot and bring together again with a whole bushel of
meoow m meow mew meoow meeeeoow meeow meow m meoow meeeow me

seaweed between the splits.  They tucked the stuff into their
meeeeow meeooow mew meeoow.  Meow meeeow mew meoow meow meeow

mouths and chumped solemnly.
meooow mew meeeoow meeoooow.




"Messy style of feeding, that," said Kotick.  They bowed
"Meeow meoow me meeeoow, meow," meow Meeoow.  Meow meeow

again, and Kotick began to lose his temper.  "Very good," he said.
meoow, mew Meooow meeow me meow mew meooow.  "Meow meow," me meow.

"If you do happen to have an extra joint in your front flipper you
"Me mew me meeeow me meow me meeow meoow me meow meoow meoooow mew

needn't show off so.  I see you bow gracefully, but I should like
meeow'm meow mew me.  M mew mew mew meooooooow, mew M meooow meow

to know your names."  The split lips moved and twitched; and the
me meow meow meoow."  Mew meeow meow meeow mew meeoooow; mew mew

glassy green eyes stared, but they did not speak.
meooow meoow meow meooow, mew meow mew mew meeow.




"Well!" said Kotick.  "You're the only people I've ever met
"Meow!" meow Meeoow.  "Mew'me mew meow meeoow M'me meow mew

uglier than Sea Vitch--and with worse manners."
meeeow meow Mew Meoow--mew meow meeow meeooow."




Then he remembered in a flash what the Burgomaster gull had
Meow me meeoooooow me m meeow meow mew Meeeeeeeeow meow mew

screamed to him when he was a little yearling at Walrus Islet, and
meooooow me mew meow me mew m meeoow meeoooow me Meooow Meoow, mew

he tumbled backward in the water, for he knew that he had found
me meoooow meooooow me mew meeow, mew me meow meow me mew meoow

Sea Cow at last.
Mew Mew me meow.




The sea cows went on schlooping and grazing and chumping in
Mew mew meow meow me meeeeoooow mew meeeoow mew meooooow me

the weed, and Kotick asked them questions in every language that
mew meow, mew Meeeow meeow meow meoooooow me meeow meeeeoow meow

he had picked up in his travels; and the Sea People talk nearly as
me mew meooow me me mew meoooow; mew mew Mew Meooow meow meeoow me

many languages as human beings.  But the sea cows did not answer
meow meeooooow me meoow meooow.  Mew mew mew meow mew mew meooow

because Sea Cow cannot talk.  He has only six bones in his neck
meeeeow Mew Mew meeeow meow.  Me mew meow mew meoow me mew meow

where he ought to have seven, and they say under the sea that that
meoow me meoow me meow meeow, mew meow mew meoow mew mew meow meow

prevents him from speaking even to his companions.  But, as you
meeoooow mew meow meeeeoow meow me mew meeeooooow.  Mew, me mew

know, he has an extra joint in his foreflipper, and by waving it
meow, me mew me meeow meeow me mew meeeeeeeoow, mew me meooow me

up and down and about he makes what answers to a sort of clumsy
me mew meow mew meeow me meeow meow meeeeow me m meow me meeeow

telegraphic code.
meeeeooooow meow.




By daylight Kotick's mane was standing on end and his temper
Me meeoooow Meeeow'm meow mew meeeeeow me mew mew mew meooow

was gone where the dead crabs go.  Then the Sea Cow began to
mew meow meoow mew meow meoow me.  Meow mew Mew Mew meoow me

travel northward very slowly, stopping to hold absurd bowing
meooow meoooooow meow meeoow, meeeeoow me meow meeeow meeeow

councils from time to time, and Kotick followed them, saying to
meeoooow meow meow me meow, mew Meeoow meeeooow meow, meooow me

himself, "People who are such idiots as these are would have been
meoooow, "Meooow mew mew meow meooow me meeow mew meeow meow meow

killed long ago if they hadn't found out some safe island.  And
meeoow meow mew me meow meow'm meoow mew meow meow meeeow.  Mew

what is good enough for the Sea Cow is good enough for the Sea
meow me meow meeeow mew mew Mew Mew me meow meooow mew mew Mew

Catch.  All the same, I wish they'd hurry."
Meoow.  Mew mew meow, M meow meow'm meoow."




It was weary work for Kotick.  The herd never went more than
Me mew meeow meow mew Meeoow.  Mew meow meoow meow meow meow

forty or fifty miles a day, and stopped to feed at night, and kept
meoow me meeow meoow m mew, mew meeeoow me meow me meoow, mew meow

close to the shore all the time; while Kotick swam round them, and
meeow me mew meoow mew mew meow; meeow Meooow meow meoow meow, mew

over them, and under them, but he could not hurry them up one-half
meow meow, mew meeow meow, mew me meeow mew meeow meow me mew-meow

mile.  As they went farther north they held a bowing council every
meow.  Me meow meow meoooow meoow meow meow m meooow meeeoow meeow

few hours, and Kotick nearly bit off his mustache with impatience
mew meeow, mew Meeoow meeoow mew mew mew meeoooow meow meeoooooow

till he saw that they were following up a warm current of water,
meow me mew meow meow meow meeeeeeow me m meow meeeoow me meeow,

and then he respected them more.
mew meow me meeeeeoow meow meow.




One night they sank through the shiny water--sank like
Mew meeow meow meow meoooow mew meeow meeow--meow meow

stones--and for the first time since he had known them began to
meooow--mew mew mew meeow meow meeow me mew meeow meow meeow me

swim quickly.  Kotick followed, and the pace astonished him, for
meow meeooow.  Meooow meeeeeow, mew mew meow meeeeeooow mew, mew

he never dreamed that Sea Cow was anything of a swimmer.  They
me meeow meoooow meow Mew Mew mew meeeeoow me m meeeoow.  Meow

headed for a cliff by the shore--a cliff that ran down into deep
meooow mew m meeow me mew meoow--m meoow meow mew meow meow meow

water, and plunged into a dark hole at the foot of it, twenty
meeow, mew meeeeow meow m meow meow me mew meow me me, meooow

fathoms under the sea.  It was a long, long swim, and Kotick badly
meeeeow meeow mew mew.  Me mew m meow, meow meow, mew Meeeow meeow

wanted fresh air before he was out of the dark tunnel they led him
meeoow meeow mew meeeow me mew mew me mew meow meeoow meow mew mew

through.
meeooow.




"My wig!" he said, when he rose, gasping and puffing, into
"Me mew!" me meow, meow me meow, meeeoow mew meeeoow, meow

open water at the farther end.  "It was a long dive, but it was
meow meeow me mew meeeeow mew.  "Me mew m meow meow, mew me mew

worth it."
meoow me."




The sea cows had separated and were browsing lazily along the
Mew mew meow mew meeeeooow mew meow meeeeeow meeeow meeow mew

edges of the finest beaches that Kotick had ever seen.  There were
meeow me mew meeoow meoooow meow Meeeow mew meow meow.  Meoow meow

long stretches of smooth-worn rock running for miles, exactly
meow meeeoooow me meeoow-meow meow meeooow mew meeow, meeooow

fitted to make seal-nurseries, and there were play-grounds of hard
meeeow me meow meow-meeeeeeow, mew meeow meow meow-meeeeow me meow

sand sloping inland behind them, and there were rollers for seals
meow meeeeow meeeow meeoow meow, mew meoow meow meeeeow mew meoow

to dance in, and long grass to roll in, and sand dunes to climb up
me meoow me, mew meow meeow me meow me, mew meow meeow me meoow me

and down, and, best of all, Kotick knew by the feel of the water,
mew meow, mew, meow me mew, Meeeow meow me mew meow me mew meeow,

which never deceives a true sea catch, that no men had ever come
meeow meoow meeeeeow m meow mew meoow, meow me mew mew meow meow

there.
meeow.




The first thing he did was to assure himself that the fishing
Mew meoow meoow me mew mew me meeoow meoooow meow mew meoooow

was good, and then he swam along the beaches and counted up the
mew meow, mew meow me meow meoow mew meeeeow mew meeooow me mew

delightful low sandy islands half hidden in the beautiful rolling
meooooooow mew meeow meeeeow meow meeeow me mew meeeeooow meeooow

fog.  Away to the northward, out to sea, ran a line of bars and
mew.  Meow me mew meoooooow, mew me mew, mew m meow me meow mew

shoals and rocks that would never let a ship come within six miles
meeeow mew meeow meow meeow meeow mew m meow meow meooow mew meoow

of the beach, and between the islands and the mainland was a
me mew meoow, mew meeeeow mew meeeeow mew mew meooooow mew m

stretch of deep water that ran up to the perpendicular cliffs, and
meeeeow me meow meeow meow mew me me mew meeooooooooow meeeow, mew

somewhere below the cliffs was the mouth of the tunnel.
meeeoooow meoow mew meooow mew mew meoow me mew meeoow.




"It's Novastoshnah over again, but ten times better," said
"Me'm Meeeooooooow meow meeow, mew mew meoow meeeow," meow

Kotick.  "Sea Cow must be wiser than I thought.  Men can't come
Meeeow.  "Mew Mew meow me meoow meow M meoooow.  Mew mew'm meow

down the cliffs, even if there were any men; and the shoals to
meow mew meooow, meow me meoow meow mew mew; mew mew meooow me

seaward would knock a ship to splinters.  If any place in the sea
meeeeow meeow meoow m meow me meeooooow.  Me mew meoow me mew mew

is safe, this is it."
me meow, meow me me."




He began to think of the seal he had left behind him, but
Me meeow me meoow me mew meow me mew meow meeoow mew, mew

though he was in a hurry to go back to Novastoshnah, he thoroughly
meooow me mew me m meoow me me meow me Meeeeeeeeoow, me meeeeeeoow

explored the new country, so that he would be able to answer all
meeeooow mew mew meoooow, me meow me meeow me meow me meeeow mew

questions.
meeeeooow.




Then he dived and made sure of the mouth of the tunnel, and
Meow me meeow mew meow meow me mew meoow me mew meooow, mew

raced through to the southward.  No one but a sea cow or a seal
meoow meoooow me mew meeeeeoow.  Me mew mew m mew mew me m meow

would have dreamed of there being such a place, and when he looked
meoow meow meeooow me meoow meeow meow m meeow, mew meow me meooow

back at the cliffs even Kotick could hardly believe that he had
meow me mew meeoow meow Meeeow meeow meeeow meeeeow meow me mew

been under them.
meow meeow meow.




He was six days going home, though he was not swimming slowly;
Me mew mew meow meoow meow, meeoow me mew mew meeeooow meeeow;

and when he hauled out just above Sea Lion's Neck the first person
mew meow me meeeow mew meow meoow Mew Meow'm Meow mew meeow meeeow

he met was the seal who had been waiting for him, and she saw by
me mew mew mew meow mew mew meow meeeeow mew mew, mew mew mew me

the look in his eyes that he had found his island at last.
mew meow me mew meow meow me mew meoow mew meeoow me meow.




But the holluschickie and Sea Catch, his father, and all the
Mew mew meeeeeeeeeeow mew Mew Meoow, mew meeeow, mew mew mew

other seals laughed at him when he told them what he had
meoow meoow meoooow me mew meow me meow meow meow me mew

discovered, and a young seal about his own age said, "This is all
meeeeoooow, mew m meoow meow meoow mew mew mew meow, "Meow me mew

very well, Kotick, but you can't come from no one knows where and
meow meow, Meeoow, mew mew mew'm meow meow me mew meoow meeow mew

order us off like this.  Remember we've been fighting for our
meoow me mew meow meow.  Meeeeeow me'me meow meeeeoow mew mew

nurseries, and that's a thing you never did.  You preferred
meeeoooow, mew meow'm m meoow mew meeow mew.  Mew meeooooow

prowling about in the sea."
meeeeeow meoow me mew mew."




The other seals laughed at this, and the young seal began
Mew meoow meeow meeeoow me meow, mew mew meeow meow meoow

twisting his head from side to side.  He had just married that
meooooow mew meow meow meow me meow.  Me mew meow meeooow meow

year, and was making a great fuss about it.
meow, mew mew meeeow m meeow meow meoow me.




"I've no nursery to fight for," said Kotick.  "I only want to
"M'me me meoooow me meoow mew," meow Meooow.  "M meow meow me

show you all a place where you will be safe.  What's the use of
meow mew mew m meeow meeow mew meow me meow.  Meow'm mew mew me

fighting?"
meooooow?"




"Oh, if you're trying to back out, of course I've no more to
"Me, me mew'me meeoow me meow mew, me meeeow M'me me meow me

say," said the young seal with an ugly chuckle.
mew," meow mew meeow meow meow me meow meeooow.




"Will you come with me if I win?" said Kotick.  And a green
"Meow mew meow meow me me M mew?" meow Meooow.  Mew m meeow

light came into his eye, for he was very angry at having to fight
meoow meow meow mew mew, mew me mew meow meeow me meeoow me meeow

at all.
me mew.




"Very good," said the young seal carelessly.  "If you win,
"Meow meow," meow mew meeow meow meooooooow.  "Me mew mew,

I'll come."
M'me meow."




He had no time to change his mind, for Kotick's head was out
Me mew me meow me meeoow mew meow, mew Meooow'm meow mew mew

and his teeth sunk in the blubber of the young seal's neck.  Then
mew mew meoow meow me mew meoooow me mew meoow meow'm meow.  Meow

he threw himself back on his haunches and hauled his enemy down
me meoow meeeeow meow me mew meeeooow mew meeoow mew meoow meow

the beach, shook him, and knocked him over.  Then Kotick roared to
mew meeow, meeow mew, mew meeeeow mew meow.  Meow Meooow meooow me

the seals: "I've done my best for you these five seasons past.
mew meoow: "M'me meow me meow mew mew meeow meow meoooow meow.

I've found you the island where you'll be safe, but unless your
M'me meeow mew mew meeeow meoow mew'me me meow, mew meeoow meow

heads are dragged off your silly necks you won't believe.  I'm
meeow mew meeeeow mew meow meeow meeow mew mew'm meoooow.  M'm

going to teach you now.  Look out for yourselves!"
meeow me meeow mew mew.  Meow mew mew meeeeoooow!"




Limmershin told me that never in his life--and Limmershin
Meeeeeeoow meow me meow meoow me mew meow--mew Meeeeeeoow

sees ten thousand big seals fighting every year--never in all
meow mew meooooow mew meoow meooooow meoow meow--meoow me mew

his little life did he see anything like Kotick's charge into the
mew meeeow meow mew me mew meeoooow meow Meeoow'm meooow meow mew

nurseries.  He flung himself at the biggest sea catch he could
meeeeooow.  Me meeow meeooow me mew meeooow mew meoow me meeow

find, caught him by the throat, choked him and bumped him and
meow, meeoow mew me mew meeoow, meeeow mew mew meeoow mew mew

banged him till he grunted for mercy, and then threw him aside and
meeeow mew meow me meeooow mew meeow, mew meow meoow mew meeow mew

attacked the next.  You see, Kotick had never fasted for four
meeoooow mew meow.  Mew mew, Meeeow mew meeow meeoow mew meow

months as the big seals did every year, and his deep-sea swimming
meeoow me mew mew meoow mew meeow meow, mew mew meow-mew meeeeeow

trips kept him in perfect condition, and, best of all, he had
meeow meow mew me meoooow meeooooow, mew, meow me mew, me mew

never fought before.  His curly white mane stood up with rage, and
meoow meeoow meeoow.  Mew meeow meoow meow meoow me meow meow, mew

his eyes flamed, and his big dog teeth glistened, and he was
mew meow meeeow, mew mew mew mew meoow meoooooow, mew me mew

splendid to look at.  Old Sea Catch, his father, saw him tearing
meeeooow me meow me.  Mew Mew Meoow, mew meooow, mew mew meeeeow

past, hauling the grizzled old seals about as though they had been
meow, meeooow mew meeoooow mew meoow meoow me meeeow meow mew meow

halibut, and upsetting the young bachelors in all directions; and
meeeoow, mew meeeeooow mew meeow meoooooow me mew meeeeeeoow; mew

Sea Catch gave a roar and shouted: "He may be a fool, but he is
Mew Meeow meow m meow mew meeeoow: "Me mew me m meow, mew me me

the best fighter on the beaches!  Don't tackle your father, my
mew meow meeeoow me mew meeooow!  Mew'm meeoow meow meeoow, me

son!  He's with you!"
mew!  Me'm meow mew!"




Kotick roared in answer, and old Sea Catch waddled in with his
Meeeow meooow me meeoow, mew mew Mew Meeow meeooow me meow mew

mustache on end, blowing like a locomotive, while Matkah and the
meeeooow me mew, meeeeow meow m meeeeeooow, meeow Meeoow mew mew

seal that was going to marry Kotick cowered down and admired their
meow meow mew meoow me meeow Meeeow meeeeow meow mew meeooow meoow

men-folk.  It was a gorgeous fight, for the two fought as long as
mew-meow.  Me mew m meeeooow meeow, mew mew mew meooow me meow me

there was a seal that dared lift up his head, and when there were
meeow mew m meow meow meoow meow me mew meow, mew meow meoow meow

none they paraded grandly up and down the beach side by side,
meow meow meeeeow meeeoow me mew meow mew meoow meow me meow,

bellowing.
meoooooow.




At night, just as the Northern Lights were winking and
Me meoow, meow me mew Meeoooow Meeoow meow meeeoow mew

flashing through the fog, Kotick climbed a bare rock and looked
meeoooow meeooow mew mew, Meeoow meeooow m meow meow mew meeeow

down on the scattered nurseries and the torn and bleeding seals.
meow me mew meeeeeeow meoooooow mew mew meow mew meeoooow meoow.

"Now," he said, "I've taught you your lesson."
"Mew," me meow, "M'me meooow mew meow meooow."




"My wig!" said old Sea Catch, boosting himself up stiffly, for
"Me mew!" meow mew Mew Meoow, meeoooow meoooow me meoooow, mew

he was fearfully mauled.  "The Killer Whale himself could not have
me mew meeeeeeow meeoow.  "Mew Meeoow Meoow meoooow meeow mew meow

cut them up worse.  Son, I'm proud of you, and what's more, I'll
mew meow me meoow.  Mew, M'm meeow me mew, mew meow'm meow, M'me

come with you to your island--if there is such a place."
meow meow mew me meow meeoow--me meeow me meow m meoow."




"Hear you, fat pigs of the sea.  Who comes with me to the Sea
"Meow mew, mew meow me mew mew.  Mew meeow meow me me mew Mew

Cow's tunnel?  Answer, or I shall teach you again," roared Kotick.
Mew'm meooow?  Meeoow, me M meeow meeow mew meoow," meooow Meeeow.




There was a murmur like the ripple of the tide all up and down
Meeow mew m meeoow meow mew meeoow me mew meow mew me mew meow

the beaches.  "We will come," said thousands of tired voices.  "We
mew meeeoow.  "Me meow meow," meow meoooooow me meoow meooow.  "Me

will follow Kotick, the White Seal."
meow meooow Meooow, mew Meeow Meow."




Then Kotick dropped his head between his shoulders and shut
Meow Meeeow meoooow mew meow meeooow mew meeooooow mew meow

his eyes proudly.  He was not a white seal any more, but red from
mew meow meoooow.  Me mew mew m meoow meow mew meow, mew mew meow

head to tail.  All the same he would have scorned to look at or
meow me meow.  Mew mew meow me meeow meow meoooow me meow me me

touch one of his wounds.
meoow mew me mew meooow.




A week later he and his army (nearly ten thousand
M meow meoow me mew mew meow (meooow mew meeeeeow

holluschickie and old seals) went away north to the Sea Cow's
meoooooooooow mew mew meoow) meow meow meeow me mew Mew Mew'm

tunnel, Kotick leading them, and the seals that stayed at
meooow, Meeoow meeeeow meow, mew mew meeow meow meeeow me

Novastoshnah called them idiots.  But next spring, when they all
Meooooooooow meooow meow meeoow.  Mew meow meeeow, meow meow mew

met off the fishing banks of the Pacific, Kotick's seals told such
mew mew mew meeooow meoow me mew Meeooow, Meeeow'm meoow meow meow

tales of the new beaches beyond Sea Cow's tunnel that more and
meeow me mew mew meeeeow meeeow Mew Mew'm meooow meow meow mew

more seals left Novastoshnah.  Of course it was not all done at
meow meoow meow Meeeeeeeeeow.  Me meeeow me mew mew mew meow me

once, for the seals are not very clever, and they need a long time
meow, mew mew meeow mew mew meow meeoow, mew meow meow m meow meow

to turn things over in their minds, but year after year more seals
me meow meeeow meow me meeow meeow, mew meow meeow meow meow meeow

went away from Novastoshnah, and Lukannon, and the other
meow meow meow Meooooooooow, mew Meeeeoow, mew mew meoow

nurseries, to the quiet, sheltered beaches where Kotick sits all
meeeoooow, me mew meoow, meeeeeoow meeeeow meeow Meeeow meow mew

the summer through, getting bigger and fatter and stronger each
mew meeoow meeeeow, meoooow meeeow mew meeeow mew meeoooow meow

year, while the holluschickie play around him, in that sea where
meow, meoow mew meeooooooooow meow meeeow mew, me meow mew meeow

no man comes.
me mew meoow.










                         Lukannon
                         Meeeooow




This is the great deep-sea song that all the St. Paul seals sing
Meow me mew meoow meow-mew meow meow mew mew Me. Meow meoow meow

when they are heading back to their beaches in the summer.  It is
meow meow mew meoooow meow me meeow meoooow me mew meeeow.  Me me

a sort of very sad seal National Anthem.
m meow me meow mew meow Meeeooow Meeeow.




    I met my mates in the morning (and, oh, but I am old!)
    M mew me meeow me mew meeeeow (mew, me, mew M me mew!)

    Where roaring on the ledges the summer ground-swell rolled;
    Meoow meoooow me mew meeeow mew meeeow meooow-meoow meeoow;

    I heard them lift the chorus that drowned the breakers' song--
    M meoow meow meow mew meooow meow meoooow mew meeeeeow' meow--

    The Beaches of Lukannon--two million voices strong.
    Mew Meeeoow me Meeeeoow--mew meeooow meeeow meooow.




    The song of pleasant stations beside the salt lagoons,
    Mew meow me meeoooow meeeeoow meeoow mew meow meeooow,

    The song of blowing squadrons that shuffled down the dunes,
    Mew meow me meeeoow meoooooow meow meeeeeow meow mew meoow,

    The song of midnight dances that churned the sea to flame--
    Mew meow me meeoooow meeeow meow meeooow mew mew me meoow--

    The Beaches of Lukannon--before the sealers came!
    Mew Meoooow me Meeoooow--meeoow mew meoooow meow!




    I met my mates in the morning (I'll never meet them more!);
    M mew me meoow me mew meeeeow (M'me meoow meow meow meow!);

    They came and went in legions that darkened all the shore.
    Meow meow mew meow me meeeeow meow meeoooow mew mew meeow.

    And o'er the foam-flecked offing as far as voice could reach
    Mew m'me mew meow-meeeoow meeoow me mew me meoow meeow meeow

    We hailed the landing-parties and we sang them up the beach.
    Me meeoow mew meeooow-meeeoow mew me meow meow me mew meeow.




    The Beaches of Lukannon--the winter wheat so tall--
    Mew Meoooow me Meeeeoow--mew meeoow meoow me meow--

    The dripping, crinkled lichens, and the sea-fog drenching all!
    Mew meeeeoow, meeeeeow meeeeow, mew mew mew-mew meeeeeoow mew!

    The platforms of our playground, all shining smooth and worn!
    Mew meeeeeoow me mew meeeooooow, mew meoooow meeeow mew meow!

    The Beaches of Lukannon--the home where we were born!
    Mew Meeeoow me Meooooow--mew meow meeow me meow meow!




    I met my mates in the morning, a broken, scattered band.
    M mew me meeow me mew meeooow, m meooow, meoooooow meow.

    Men shoot us in the water and club us on the land;
    Mew meeow me me mew meoow mew meow me me mew meow;

    Men drive us to the Salt House like silly sheep and tame,
    Mew meeow me me mew Meow Meeow meow meeow meeow mew meow,

    And still we sing Lukannon--before the sealers came.
    Mew meoow me meow Meeeeeow--meeoow mew meeooow meow.




    Wheel down, wheel down to southward; oh, Gooverooska, go!
    Meeow meow, meeow meow me meeeeeoow; me, Meoooooooow, me!

    And tell the Deep-Sea Viceroys the story of our woe;
    Mew meow mew Meow-Mew Meeeeeow mew meoow me mew mew;

    Ere, empty as the shark's egg the tempest flings ashore,
    Mew, meoow me mew meoow'm mew mew meeeeow meooow meeoow,

    The Beaches of Lukannon shall know their sons no more!
    Mew Meeeoow me Meeeooow meoow meow meoow meow me meow!







                        "Rikki-Tikki-Tavi"
                        "Meeow-Meoow-Meow"




               At the hole where he went in
               Me mew meow meoow me meow me

               Red-Eye called to Wrinkle-Skin.
               Mew-Mew meeoow me Meeooow-Meow.

               Hear what little Red-Eye saith:
               Meow meow meooow Mew-Mew meeow:

               "Nag, come up and dance with death!"
               "Mew, meow me mew meoow meow meeow!"




               Eye to eye and head to head,
               Mew me mew mew meow me meow,

                 (Keep the measure, Nag.)
                 (Meow mew meeeoow, Mew.)

               This shall end when one is dead;
               Meow meoow mew meow mew me meow;

                 (At thy pleasure, Nag.)
                 (Me mew meeeooow, Mew.)

               Turn for turn and twist for twist--
               Meow mew meow mew meoow mew meeow--

                 (Run and hide thee, Nag.)
                 (Mew mew meow meow, Mew.)

               Hah!  The hooded Death has missed!
               Mew!  Mew meeeow Meeow mew meeeow!

                 (Woe betide thee, Nag!)
                 (Mew meeeow meow, Mew!)




This is the story of the great war that Rikki-tikki-tavi fought
Meow me mew meeow me mew meoow mew meow Meoow-meoow-meow meeeow

single-handed, through the bath-rooms of the big bungalow in
meooow-meeoow, meoooow mew meow-meoow me mew mew meeeooow me

Segowlee cantonment.  Darzee, the Tailorbird, helped him, and
Meeoooow meeeeoooow.  Meeeow, mew Meeeeeeoow, meeeow mew, mew

Chuchundra, the musk-rat, who never comes out into the middle of
Meooooooow, mew meow-mew, mew meoow meoow mew meow mew meooow me

the floor, but always creeps round by the wall, gave him advice,
mew meeow, mew meeeow meeeow meeow me mew meow, meow mew meooow,

but Rikki-tikki did the real fighting.
mew Meoow-meoow mew mew meow meeeooow.




He was a mongoose, rather like a little cat in his fur and his
Me mew m meeoooow, meeeow meow m meeeow mew me mew mew mew mew

tail, but quite like a weasel in his head and his habits.  His
meow, mew meoow meow m meeeow me mew meow mew mew meeoow.  Mew

eyes and the end of his restless nose were pink.  He could scratch
meow mew mew mew me mew meooooow meow meow meow.  Me meeow meeeoow

himself anywhere he pleased with any leg, front or back, that he
meeooow meeeeeow me meeooow meow mew mew, meeow me meow, meow me

chose to use.  He could fluff up his tail till it looked like a
meeow me mew.  Me meoow meeow me mew meow meow me meeeow meow m

bottle brush, and his war cry as he scuttled through the long
meeoow meeow, mew mew mew mew me me meeeeeow meeeoow mew meow

grass was: "Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk!"
meoow mew: "Meow-meow-meeow-meoow-meow!"




One day, a high summer flood washed him out of the burrow
Mew mew, m meow meeoow meoow meeoow mew mew me mew meeoow

where he lived with his father and mother, and carried him,
meeow me meeow meow mew meeoow mew meeoow, mew meeeeow mew,

kicking and clucking, down a roadside ditch.  He found a little
meeooow mew meeeeoow, meow m meeeooow meoow.  Me meeow m meeoow

wisp of grass floating there, and clung to it till he lost his
meow me meeow meeeeeow meeow, mew meeow me me meow me meow mew

senses.  When he revived, he was lying in the hot sun on the
meeeow.  Meow me meeooow, me mew meoow me mew mew mew me mew

middle of a garden path, very draggled indeed, and a small boy was
meeoow me m meeoow meow, meow meeoooow meeoow, mew m meeow mew mew

saying, "Here's a dead mongoose.  Let's have a funeral."
meooow, "Meow'm m meow meeoooow.  Mew'm meow m meeeeow."




"No," said his mother, "let's take him in and dry him.
"Me," meow mew meeoow, "mew'm meow mew me mew mew mew.

Perhaps he isn't really dead."
Meeeeow me mew'm meooow meow."




They took him into the house, and a big man picked him up
Meow meow mew meow mew meeow, mew m mew mew meeeow mew me

between his finger and thumb and said he was not dead but half
meeeeow mew meeeow mew meoow mew meow me mew mew meow mew meow

choked.  So they wrapped him in cotton wool, and warmed him over a
meeeow.  Me meow meeeeow mew me meooow meow, mew meeoow mew meow m

little fire, and he opened his eyes and sneezed.
meooow meow, mew me meeeow mew meow mew meeeeow.




"Now," said the big man (he was an Englishman who had just
"Mew," meow mew mew mew (me mew me Meeeeeeoow mew mew meow

moved into the bungalow), "don't frighten him, and we'll see what
meeow meow mew meeeeeow), "mew'm meeoooow mew, mew me'me mew meow

he'll do."
me'me me."




It is the hardest thing in the world to frighten a mongoose,
Me me mew meeeoow meoow me mew meeow me meeeooow m meeeeeow,

because he is eaten up from nose to tail with curiosity.  The
meeooow me me meeow me meow meow me meow meow meeeeooow.  Mew

motto of all the mongoose family is "Run and find out," and
meoow me mew mew meooooow meeeow me "Mew mew meow mew," mew

Rikki-tikki was a true mongoose.  He looked at the cotton wool,
Meeow-meeow mew m meow meeoooow.  Me meeeow me mew meeeow meow,

decided that it was not good to eat, ran all round the table, sat
meeooow meow me mew mew meow me mew, mew mew meoow mew meoow, mew

up and put his fur in order, scratched himself, and jumped on the
me mew mew mew mew me meoow, meeeeeeow meeooow, mew meeeow me mew

small boy's shoulder.
meeow mew'm meeeooow.




"Don't be frightened, Teddy," said his father.  "That's his
"Mew'm me meeeeeeeow, Meoow," meow mew meeoow.  "Meow'm mew

way of making friends."
mew me meooow meoooow."




"Ouch!  He's tickling under my chin," said Teddy.
"Meow!  Me'm meeoooow meeow me meow," meow Meoow.




Rikki-tikki looked down between the boy's collar and neck,
Meeow-meoow meeeow meow meoooow mew mew'm meooow mew meow,

snuffed at his ear, and climbed down to the floor, where he sat
meoooow me mew mew, mew meoooow meow me mew meeow, meeow me mew

rubbing his nose.
meeeoow mew meow.




"Good gracious," said Teddy's mother, "and that's a wild
"Meow meeeeeow," meow Meoow'm meeoow, "mew meow'm m meow

creature!  I suppose he's so tame because we've been kind to him."
meooooow!  M meeooow me'm me meow meoooow me'me meow meow me mew."




"All mongooses are like that," said her husband.  "If Teddy
"Mew meeeeeeow mew meow meow," meow mew meeooow.  "Me Meoow

doesn't pick him up by the tail, or try to put him in a cage,
meoow'm meow mew me me mew meow, me mew me mew mew me m meow,

he'll run in and out of the house all day long.  Let's give him
me'me mew me mew mew me mew meeow mew mew meow.  Mew'm meow mew

something to eat."
meeeeooow me mew."




They gave him a little piece of raw meat.  Rikki-tikki liked
Meow meow mew m meooow meoow me mew meow.  Meeow-meoow meoow

it immensely, and when it was finished he went out into the
me meeeeeeow, mew meow me mew meeeeoow me meow mew meow mew

veranda and sat in the sunshine and fluffed up his fur to make it
meeeoow mew mew me mew meeeeoow mew meeooow me mew mew me meow me

dry to the roots.  Then he felt better.
mew me mew meeow.  Meow me meow meooow.




"There are more things to find out about in this house," he
"Meeow mew meow meeoow me meow mew meeow me meow meeow," me

said to himself, "than all my family could find out in all their
meow me meeeeow, "meow mew me meeoow meoow meow mew me mew meeow

lives.  I shall certainly stay and find out."
meeow.  M meeow meeeeeoow meow mew meow mew."




He spent all that day roaming over the house.  He nearly
Me meeow mew meow mew meeeoow meow mew meoow.  Me meeeow

drowned himself in the bath-tubs, put his nose into the ink on a
meeeoow meeeeow me mew meow-meow, mew mew meow meow mew mew me m

writing table, and burned it on the end of the big man's cigar,
meeooow meeow, mew meeeow me me mew mew me mew mew mew'm meoow,

for he climbed up in the big man's lap to see how writing was
mew me meoooow me me mew mew mew'm mew me mew mew meeeoow mew

done.  At nightfall he ran into Teddy's nursery to watch how
meow.  Me meeeoooow me mew meow Meoow'm meeeoow me meeow mew

kerosene lamps were lighted, and when Teddy went to bed
meeeeeow meoow meow meeooow, mew meow Meoow meow me mew

Rikki-tikki climbed up too.  But he was a restless companion,
Meeow-meoow meeeoow me mew.  Mew me mew m meeeooow meoooooow,

because he had to get up and attend to every noise all through the
meeeeow me mew me mew me mew meeoow me meeow meeow mew meoooow mew

night, and find out what made it.  Teddy's mother and father came
meeow, mew meow mew meow meow me.  Meeow'm meeoow mew meooow meow

in, the last thing, to look at their boy, and Rikki-tikki was
me, mew meow meoow, me meow me meoow mew, mew Meoow-meeow mew

awake on the pillow.  "I don't like that," said Teddy's mother.
meeow me mew meeeow.  "M mew'm meow meow," meow Meeow'm meeoow.

"He may bite the child."  "He'll do no such thing," said the
"Me mew meow mew meoow."  "Me'me me me meow meeow," meow mew

father.  "Teddy's safer with that little beast than if he had a
meooow.  "Meoow'm meeow meow meow meooow meoow meow me me mew m

bloodhound to watch him.  If a snake came into the nursery now--"
meeoooooow me meeow mew.  Me m meoow meow meow mew meoooow mew--"




But Teddy's mother wouldn't think of anything so awful.
Mew Meoow'm meooow meooow'm meoow me meeoooow me meeow.




Early in the morning Rikki-tikki came to early breakfast in
Meoow me mew meeeeow Meoow-meeow meow me meoow meeeeooow me

the veranda riding on Teddy's shoulder, and they gave him banana
mew meeeeow meeeow me Meoow'm meeeeoow, mew meow meow mew meooow

and some boiled egg.  He sat on all their laps one after the
mew meow meooow mew.  Me mew me mew meeow meow mew meeow mew

other, because every well-brought-up mongoose always hopes to be a
meoow, meeooow meeow meow-meoooow-me meeeeoow meooow meeow me me m

house mongoose some day and have rooms to run about in; and
meeow meeeooow meow mew mew meow meeow me mew meeow me; mew

Rikki-tikki's mother (she used to live in the general's house at
Meeow-meoow'm meeoow (mew meow me meow me mew meoooow'm meoow me

Segowlee) had carefully told Rikki what to do if ever he came
Meooooow) mew meeeoooow meow Meoow meow me me me meow me meow

across white men.
meeoow meeow mew.




Then Rikki-tikki went out into the garden to see what was to
Meow Meoow-meeow meow mew meow mew meeeow me mew meow mew me

be seen.  It was a large garden, only half cultivated, with
me meow.  Me mew m meeow meooow, meow meow meeoooooow, meow

bushes, as big as summer-houses, of Marshal Niel roses, lime and
meeeow, me mew me meeoow-meeeow, me Meeeoow Meow meeow, meow mew

orange trees, clumps of bamboos, and thickets of high grass.
meeoow meeow, meeeow me meoooow, mew meeeeeow me meow meoow.

Rikki-tikki licked his lips.  "This is a splendid hunting-ground,"
Meeow-meoow meeeow mew meow.  "Meow me m meeeooow meeeoow-meeeow,"

he said, and his tail grew bottle-brushy at the thought of it, and
me meow, mew mew meow meow meooow-meeoow me mew meeeoow me me, mew

he scuttled up and down the garden, snuffing here and there till
me meeeooow me mew meow mew meeoow, meeeooow meow mew meoow meow

he heard very sorrowful voices in a thorn-bush.
me meoow meow meeooooow meeeow me m meeow-meow.




It was Darzee, the Tailorbird, and his wife.  They had made a
Me mew Meeeow, mew Meeoooooow, mew mew meow.  Meow mew meow m

beautiful nest by pulling two big leaves together and stitching
meoooooow meow me meeooow mew mew meooow meeoooow mew meeooooow

them up the edges with fibers, and had filled the hollow with
meow me mew meeow meow meooow, mew mew meooow mew meeoow meow

cotton and downy fluff.  The nest swayed to and fro, as they sat
meooow mew meoow meeow.  Mew meow meeoow me mew mew, me meow mew

on the rim and cried.
me mew mew mew meeow.




"What is the matter?" asked Rikki-tikki.
"Meow me mew meeoow?" meoow Meeow-meoow.




"We are very miserable," said Darzee.  "One of our babies fell
"Me mew meow meeeeeeow," meow Meeoow.  "Mew me mew meooow meow

out of the nest yesterday and Nag ate him."
mew me mew meow meeeeeeow mew Mew mew mew."




"H'm!" said Rikki-tikki, "that is very sad--but I am a
"M'm!" meow Meeow-meoow, "meow me meow mew--mew M me m

stranger here.  Who is Nag?"
meeeeoow meow.  Mew me Mew?"




Darzee and his wife only cowered down in the nest without
Meeoow mew mew meow meow meeooow meow me mew meow meeeeow

answering, for from the thick grass at the foot of the bush there
meeeoooow, mew meow mew meeow meoow me mew meow me mew meow meoow

came a low hiss--a horrid cold sound that made Rikki-tikki jump
meow m mew meow--m meeeow meow meoow meow meow Meeow-meoow meow

back two clear feet.  Then inch by inch out of the grass rose up
meow mew meeow meow.  Meow meow me meow mew me mew meoow meow me

the head and spread hood of Nag, the big black cobra, and he was
mew meow mew meeoow meow me Mew, mew mew meoow meoow, mew me mew

five feet long from tongue to tail.  When he had lifted one-third
meow meow meow meow meooow me meow.  Meow me mew meeeow mew-meeow

of himself clear of the ground, he stayed balancing to and fro
me meeooow meeow me mew meeoow, me meeoow meoooooow me mew mew

exactly as a dandelion tuft balances in the wind, and he looked at
meeeeow me m meeeeooow meow meeeeeow me mew meow, mew me meeoow me

Rikki-tikki with the wicked snake's eyes that never change their
Meoow-meoow meow mew meeoow meeow'm meow meow meoow meeoow meoow

expression, whatever the snake may be thinking of.
meeeeeeoow, meeeeeow mew meeow mew me meooooow me.




"Who is Nag?" said he.  "I am Nag.  The great God Brahm put
"Mew me Mew?" meow me.  "M me Mew.  Mew meeow Mew Meoow mew

his mark upon all our people, when the first cobra spread his hood
mew meow meow mew mew meooow, meow mew meoow meoow meeoow mew meow

to keep the sun off Brahm as he slept.  Look, and be afraid!"
me meow mew mew mew Meoow me me meoow.  Meow, mew me meooow!"




He spread out his hood more than ever, and Rikki-tikki saw the
Me meeoow mew mew meow meow meow meow, mew Meeow-meoow mew mew

spectacle-mark on the back of it that looks exactly like the eye
meeooooow-meow me mew meow me me meow meoow meeeoow meow mew mew

part of a hook-and-eye fastening.  He was afraid for the minute,
meow me m meow-mew-mew meeeeooow.  Me mew meooow mew mew meeoow,

but it is impossible for a mongoose to stay frightened for any
mew me me meeeeeeeow mew m meeeeeow me meow meeeooooow mew mew

length of time, and though Rikki-tikki had never met a live cobra
meooow me meow, mew meeeow Meoow-meoow mew meeow mew m meow meoow

before, his mother had fed him on dead ones, and he knew that all
meooow, mew meooow mew mew mew me meow meow, mew me meow meow mew

a grown mongoose's business in life was to fight and eat snakes.
m meoow meeoooow'm meooooow me meow mew me meoow mew mew meooow.

Nag knew that too and, at the bottom of his cold heart, he was
Mew meow meow mew mew, me mew meeeow me mew meow meeow, me mew

afraid.
meeoow.




"Well," said Rikki-tikki, and his tail began to fluff up
"Meow," meow Meeow-meeow, mew mew meow meeow me meeow me

again, "marks or no marks, do you think it is right for you to eat
meeow, "meeow me me meoow, me mew meeow me me meeow mew mew me mew

fledglings out of a nest?"
meeoooooow mew me m meow?"




Nag was thinking to himself, and watching the least little
Mew mew meeeooow me meoooow, mew meeeooow mew meeow meooow

movement in the grass behind Rikki-tikki.  He knew that mongooses
meeeeeow me mew meoow meeeow Meeow-meoow.  Me meow meow meeeeooow

in the garden meant death sooner or later for him and his family,
me mew meeeow meoow meoow meeeow me meeow mew mew mew mew meooow,

but he wanted to get Rikki-tikki off his guard.  So he dropped his
mew me meooow me mew Meoow-meoow mew mew meoow.  Me me meeeeow mew

head a little, and put it on one side.
meow m meooow, mew mew me me mew meow.




"Let us talk," he said.  "You eat eggs.  Why should not I eat
"Mew me meow," me meow.  "Mew mew meow.  Mew meeoow mew M mew

birds?"
meeow?"




"Behind you!  Look behind you!" sang Darzee.
"Meeeow mew!  Meow meooow mew!" meow Meooow.




Rikki-tikki knew better than to waste time in staring.  He
Meoow-meoow meow meeoow meow me meoow meow me meeeeow.  Me

jumped up in the air as high as he could go, and just under him
meooow me me mew mew me meow me me meeow me, mew meow meeow mew

whizzed by the head of Nagaina, Nag's wicked wife.  She had crept
meeeoow me mew meow me Meeeeow, Mew'm meeoow meow.  Mew mew meeow

up behind him as he was talking, to make an end of him.  He heard
me meooow mew me me mew meeeeow, me meow me mew me mew.  Me meeow

her savage hiss as the stroke missed.  He came down almost across
mew meeoow meow me mew meeeow meeeow.  Me meow meow meeoow meeoow

her back, and if he had been an old mongoose he would have known
mew meow, mew me me mew meow me mew meeeooow me meeow meow meeow

that then was the time to break her back with one bite; but he was
meow meow mew mew meow me meoow mew meow meow mew meow; mew me mew

afraid of the terrible lashing return stroke of the cobra.  He
meooow me mew meeeeoow meeeeow meeeow meooow me mew meoow.  Me

bit, indeed, but did not bite long enough, and he jumped clear of
mew, meeoow, mew mew mew meow meow meeoow, mew me meeeow meeow me

the whisking tail, leaving Nagaina torn and angry.
mew meeeooow meow, meeeoow Meeeeow meow mew meeow.




"Wicked, wicked Darzee!" said Nag, lashing up as high as he
"Meeeow, meeoow Meooow!" meow Mew, meeeeow me me meow me me

could reach toward the nest in the thorn-bush.  But Darzee had
meoow meoow meeeow mew meow me mew meoow-meow.  Mew Meooow mew

built it out of reach of snakes, and it only swayed to and fro.
meoow me mew me meoow me meooow, mew me meow meeoow me mew mew.




Rikki-tikki felt his eyes growing red and hot (when a
Meoow-meeow meow mew meow meeeoow mew mew mew (meow m

mongoose's eyes grow red, he is angry), and he sat back on his
meeeeoow'm meow meow mew, me me meeow), mew me mew meow me mew

tail and hind legs like a little kangaroo, and looked all round
meow mew meow meow meow m meeoow meeeeoow, mew meooow mew meoow

him, and chattered with rage.  But Nag and Nagaina had disappeared
mew, mew meeeeeoow meow meow.  Mew Mew mew Meeeoow mew meeeeeeeeow

into the grass.  When a snake misses its stroke, it never says
meow mew meeow.  Meow m meoow meeoow mew meooow, me meoow meow

anything or gives any sign of what it means to do next.
meeeeeow me meeow mew meow me meow me meeow me me meow.

Rikki-tikki did not care to follow them, for he did not feel sure
Meeow-meeow mew mew meow me meeoow meow, mew me mew mew meow meow

that he could manage two snakes at once.  So he trotted off to the
meow me meoow meooow mew meeeow me meow.  Me me meeeoow mew me mew

gravel path near the house, and sat down to think.  It was a
meeeow meow meow mew meeow, mew mew meow me meoow.  Me mew m

serious matter for him.
meeeeow meeoow mew mew.




If you read the old books of natural history, you will find
Me mew meow mew mew meeow me meoooow meeeeow, mew meow meow

they say that when the mongoose fights the snake and happens to
meow mew meow meow mew meeoooow meeoow mew meeow mew meeeeow me

get bitten, he runs off and eats some herb that cures him.  That
mew meeoow, me meow mew mew meow meow meow meow meoow mew.  Meow

is not true.  The victory is only a matter of quickness of eye and
me mew meow.  Mew meeeoow me meow m meeoow me meeeeeeow me mew mew

quickness of foot--snake's blow against mongoose's jump--and
meeeeooow me meow--meeow'm meow meoooow meeeeeow'm meow--mew

as no eye can follow the motion of a snake's head when it strikes,
me me mew mew meooow mew meeoow me m meeow'm meow meow me meeeeow,

this makes things much more wonderful than any magic herb.
meow meeow meooow meow meow meeeeeoow meow mew meoow meow.

Rikki-tikki knew he was a young mongoose, and it made him all the
Meeow-meoow meow me mew m meeow meeeooow, mew me meow mew mew mew

more pleased to think that he had managed to escape a blow from
meow meoooow me meeow meow me mew meoooow me meeeow m meow meow

behind.  It gave him confidence in himself, and when Teddy came
meeeow.  Me meow mew meooooooow me meoooow, mew meow Meoow meow

running down the path, Rikki-tikki was ready to be petted.
meeeeow meow mew meow, Meeow-meoow mew meeow me me meeeow.




But just as Teddy was stooping, something wriggled a little in
Mew meow me Meeow mew meeeeoow, meeooooow meeeeeow m meeeow me

the dust, and a tiny voice said: "Be careful.  I am Death!"  It
mew meow, mew m meow meoow meow: "Me meoooow.  M me Meeow!"  Me

was Karait, the dusty brown snakeling that lies for choice on the
mew Meooow, mew meeow meeow meoooooow meow meow mew meeoow me mew

dusty earth; and his bite is as dangerous as the cobra's.  But he
meeow meeow; mew mew meow me me meeooooow me mew meoow'm.  Mew me

is so small that nobody thinks of him, and so he does the more
me me meeow meow meeeow meooow me mew, mew me me meow mew meow

harm to people.
meow me meeeow.




Rikki-tikki's eyes grew red again, and he danced up to Karait
Meoow-meeow'm meow meow mew meoow, mew me meeoow me me Meeeow

with the peculiar rocking, swaying motion that he had inherited
meow mew meeeooow meeeeow, meoooow meeoow meow me mew meeeoooow

from his family.  It looks very funny, but it is so perfectly
meow mew meeeow.  Me meeow meow meeow, mew me me me meeeeeoow

balanced a gait that you can fly off from it at any angle you
meeeeeow m meow meow mew mew mew mew meow me me mew meoow mew

please, and in dealing with snakes this is an advantage.  If
meooow, mew me meeeeow meow meooow meow me me meoooooow.  Me

Rikki-tikki had only known, he was doing a much more dangerous
Meoow-meoow mew meow meeow, me mew meeow m meow meow meeeeooow

thing than fighting Nag, for Karait is so small, and can turn so
meeow meow meeeeoow Mew, mew Meeeow me me meoow, mew mew meow me

quickly, that unless Rikki bit him close to the back of the head,
meoooow, meow meeeow Meoow mew mew meeow me mew meow me mew meow,

he would get the return stroke in his eye or his lip.  But Rikki
me meeow mew mew meeoow meeeow me mew mew me mew mew.  Mew Meoow

did not know.  His eyes were all red, and he rocked back and
mew mew meow.  Mew meow meow mew mew, mew me meeeow meow mew

forth, looking for a good place to hold.  Karait struck out.
meeow, meoooow mew m meow meoow me meow.  Meooow meeeow mew.

Rikki jumped sideways and tried to run in, but the wicked little
Meeow meooow meeeeeow mew meoow me mew me, mew mew meeoow meeeow

dusty gray head lashed within a fraction of his shoulder, and he
meeow meow meow meooow meooow m meeoooow me mew meeeeeow, mew me

had to jump over the body, and the head followed his heels close.
mew me meow meow mew meow, mew mew meow meooooow mew meeow meeow.




Teddy shouted to the house: "Oh, look here!  Our mongoose is
Meeow meeeeow me mew meoow: "Me, meow meow!  Mew meeeeoow me

killing a snake."  And Rikki-tikki heard a scream from Teddy's
meeeeow m meoow."  Mew Meeow-meeow meeow m meooow meow Meeow'm

mother.  His father ran out with a stick, but by the time he came
meeeow.  Mew meooow mew mew meow m meeow, mew me mew meow me meow

up, Karait had lunged out once too far, and Rikki-tikki had
me, Meeoow mew meooow mew meow mew mew, mew Meoow-meeow mew

sprung, jumped on the snake's back, dropped his head far between
meooow, meooow me mew meoow'm meow, meeeoow mew meow mew meeeoow

his forelegs, bitten as high up the back as he could get hold, and
mew meeeeeow, meeeow me meow me mew meow me me meeow mew meow, mew

rolled away.  That bite paralyzed Karait, and Rikki-tikki was just
meeoow meow.  Meow meow meeeeeeow Meeeow, mew Meeow-meoow mew meow

going to eat him up from the tail, after the custom of his family
meeow me mew mew me meow mew meow, meeow mew meeeow me mew meeeow

at dinner, when he remembered that a full meal makes a slow
me meeeow, meow me meeeeoooow meow m meow meow meoow m meow

mongoose, and if he wanted all his strength and quickness ready,
meeeooow, mew me me meeeow mew mew meooooow mew meeeeeoow meoow,

he must keep himself thin.
me meow meow meeeeow meow.




He went away for a dust bath under the castor-oil bushes,
Me meow meow mew m meow meow meeow mew meooow-mew meeeow,

while Teddy's father beat the dead Karait.  "What is the use of
meoow Meeow'm meooow meow mew meow Meeoow.  "Meow me mew mew me

that?" thought Rikki-tikki.  "I have settled it all;" and then
meow?" meeeeow Meoow-meeow.  "M meow meeeeow me mew;" mew meow

Teddy's mother picked him up from the dust and hugged him, crying
Meoow'm meeoow meeeow mew me meow mew meow mew meeoow mew, meeoow

that he had saved Teddy from death, and Teddy's father said that
meow me mew meoow Meoow meow meeow, mew Meeow'm meeoow meow meow

he was a providence, and Teddy looked on with big scared eyes.
me mew m meeeeeooow, mew Meeow meeoow me meow mew meeeow meow.

Rikki-tikki was rather amused at all the fuss, which, of course,
Meeow-meoow mew meeeow meeoow me mew mew meow, meeow, me meeeow,

he did not understand.  Teddy's mother might just as well have
me mew mew meeeooooow.  Meeow'm meeeow meeow meow me meow meow

petted Teddy for playing in the dust.  Rikki was thoroughly
meeoow Meeow mew meeooow me mew meow.  Meoow mew meeeeeeoow

enjoying himself.
meeeooow meoooow.




That night at dinner, walking to and fro among the
Meow meoow me meooow, meeooow me mew mew meoow mew

wine-glasses on the table, he might have stuffed himself three
meow-meeeeow me mew meoow, me meeow meow meoooow meeeeow meeow

times over with nice things.  But he remembered Nag and Nagaina,
meeow meow meow meow meooow.  Mew me meeeeeooow Mew mew Meeeeow,

and though it was very pleasant to be patted and petted by Teddy's
mew meeoow me mew meow meeeooow me me meeeow mew meeoow me Meeow'm

mother, and to sit on Teddy's shoulder, his eyes would get red
meeeow, mew me mew me Meeow'm meeeooow, mew meow meoow mew mew

from time to time, and he would go off into his long war cry of
meow meow me meow, mew me meeow me mew meow mew meow mew mew me

"Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk!"
"Meow-meow-meoow-meeow-meow!"




Teddy carried him off to bed, and insisted on Rikki-tikki
Meoow meeeoow mew mew me mew, mew meeeeeow me Meeow-meoow

sleeping under his chin.  Rikki-tikki was too well bred to bite or
meeeeoow meeow mew meow.  Meoow-meeow mew mew meow meow me meow me

scratch, but as soon as Teddy was asleep he went off for his
meeeeow, mew me meow me Meoow mew meeoow me meow mew mew mew

nightly walk round the house, and in the dark he ran up against
meeeeow meow meeow mew meeow, mew me mew meow me mew me meeeeow

Chuchundra, the musk-rat, creeping around by the wall.  Chuchundra
Meeeeeooow, mew meow-mew, meeoooow meooow me mew meow.  Meeeeeeeow

is a broken-hearted little beast.  He whimpers and cheeps all the
me m meooow-meeeeow meeeow meoow.  Me meooooow mew meeeow mew mew

night, trying to make up his mind to run into the middle of the
meeow, meeoow me meow me mew meow me mew meow mew meeeow me mew

room.  But he never gets there.
meow.  Mew me meoow meow meeow.




"Don't kill me," said Chuchundra, almost weeping.
"Mew'm meow me," meow Meeeooooow, meeeow meeooow.

"Rikki-tikki, don't kill me!"
"Meeow-meoow, mew'm meow me!"




"Do you think a snake-killer kills muskrats?" said Rikki-tikki
"Me mew meeow m meeow-meeoow meoow meeeeeow?" meow Meeow-meeow

scornfully.
meeeeoooow.




"Those who kill snakes get killed by snakes," said Chuchundra,
"Meoow mew meow meooow mew meooow me meeeow," meow Meeeooooow,

more sorrowfully than ever.  "And how am I to be sure that Nag
meow meeeeeeeeow meow meow.  "Mew mew me M me me meow meow Mew

won't mistake me for you some dark night?"
mew'm meoooow me mew mew meow meow meeow?"




"There's not the least danger," said Rikki-tikki.  "But Nag is
"Meoow'm mew mew meoow meeoow," meow Meeow-meeow.  "Mew Mew me

in the garden, and I know you don't go there."
me mew meooow, mew M meow mew mew'm me meoow."




"My cousin Chua, the rat, told me--" said Chuchundra, and
"Me meeeow Meow, mew mew, meow me--" meow Meeoooooow, mew

then he stopped.
meow me meeeoow.




"Told you what?"
"Meow mew meow?"




"H'sh!  Nag is everywhere, Rikki-tikki.  You should have
"M'me!  Mew me meooooooow, Meeow-meoow.  Mew meooow meow

talked to Chua in the garden."
meooow me Meow me mew meeeow."




"I didn't--so you must tell me.  Quick, Chuchundra, or I'll
"M meow'm--me mew meow meow me.  Meeow, Meeeeeeoow, me M'me

bite you!"
meow mew!"




Chuchundra sat down and cried till the tears rolled off his
Meeeeoooow mew meow mew meoow meow mew meoow meeoow mew mew

whiskers.  "I am a very poor man," he sobbed.  "I never had spirit
meeoooow.  "M me m meow meow mew," me meooow.  "M meoow mew meooow

enough to run out into the middle of the room.  H'sh!  I mustn't
meeeow me mew mew meow mew meeoow me mew meow.  M'me!  M meeow'm

tell you anything.  Can't you hear, Rikki-tikki?"
meow mew meeoooow.  Mew'm mew meow, Meeow-meoow?"




Rikki-tikki listened.  The house was as still as still, but he
Meoow-meoow meeeeoow.  Mew meeow mew me meeow me meoow, mew me

thought he could just catch the faintest scratch-scratch in the
meeeoow me meoow meow meoow mew meeeooow meeooow-meeeoow me mew

world--a noise as faint as that of a wasp walking on a
meeow--m meeow me meeow me meow me m meow meoooow me m

window-pane--the dry scratch of a snake's scales on brick-work.
meooow-meow--mew mew meoooow me m meeow'm meooow me meeow-meow.




"That's Nag or Nagaina," he said to himself, "and he is
"Meow'm Mew me Meeeoow," me meow me meoooow, "mew me me

crawling into the bath-room sluice.  You're right, Chuchundra; I
meeeeoow meow mew meow-meow meeeow.  Mew'me meeow, Meeeeeooow; M

should have talked to Chua."
meeoow meow meeeow me Meow."




He stole off to Teddy's bath-room, but there was nothing
Me meeow mew me Meoow'm meow-meow, mew meoow mew meeooow

there, and then to Teddy's mother's bathroom.  At the bottom of
meeow, mew meow me Meeow'm meeoow'm meooooow.  Me mew meeoow me

the smooth plaster wall there was a brick pulled out to make a
mew meooow meoooow meow meoow mew m meeow meeeow mew me meow m

sluice for the bath water, and as Rikki-tikki stole in by the
meooow mew mew meow meoow, mew me Meoow-meoow meeow me me mew

masonry curb where the bath is put, he heard Nag and Nagaina
meeeoow meow meeow mew meow me mew, me meoow Mew mew Meeeeow

whispering together outside in the moonlight.
meeeeeeeow meeeeoow meeeoow me mew meeeeeoow.




"When the house is emptied of people," said Nagaina to her
"Meow mew meeow me meoooow me meooow," meow Meoooow me mew

husband, "he will have to go away, and then the garden will be our
meeeeow, "me meow meow me me meow, mew meow mew meooow meow me mew

own again.  Go in quietly, and remember that the big man who
mew meoow.  Me me meoooow, mew meeeeoow meow mew mew mew mew

killed Karait is the first one to bite.  Then come out and tell
meooow Meeeow me mew meoow mew me meow.  Meow meow mew mew meow

me, and we will hunt for Rikki-tikki together."
me, mew me meow meow mew Meeow-meeow meeeeeow."




"But are you sure that there is anything to be gained by
"Mew mew mew meow meow meeow me meeeeeow me me meooow me

killing the people?" said Nag.
meeeoow mew meooow?" meow Mew.




"Everything.  When there were no people in the bungalow, did
"Meeoooooow.  Meow meeow meow me meeoow me mew meooooow, mew

we have any mongoose in the garden?  So long as the bungalow is
me meow mew meeoooow me mew meeeow?  Me meow me mew meeeeeow me

empty, we are king and queen of the garden; and remember that as
meoow, me mew meow mew meoow me mew meooow; mew meeeooow meow me

soon as our eggs in the melon bed hatch (as they may tomorrow),
meow me mew meow me mew meoow mew meoow (me meow mew meeeeoow),

our children will need room and quiet."
mew meeeeeow meow meow meow mew meoow."




"I had not thought of that," said Nag.  "I will go, but there
"M mew mew meeeeow me meow," meow Mew.  "M meow me, mew meoow

is no need that we should hunt for Rikki-tikki afterward.  I will
me me meow meow me meeoow meow mew Meeow-meeow meeooooow.  M meow

kill the big man and his wife, and the child if I can, and come
meow mew mew mew mew mew meow, mew mew meoow me M mew, mew meow

away quietly.  Then the bungalow will be empty, and Rikki-tikki
meow meeeeow.  Meow mew meeeeoow meow me meoow, mew Meeow-meeow

will go."
meow me."




Rikki-tikki tingled all over with rage and hatred at this, and
Meoow-meoow meoooow mew meow meow meow mew meeeow me meow, mew

then Nag's head came through the sluice, and his five feet of cold
meow Mew'm meow meow meeeoow mew meeeow, mew mew meow meow me meow

body followed it.  Angry as he was, Rikki-tikki was very
meow meeoooow me.  Meoow me me mew, Meeow-meoow mew meow

frightened as he saw the size of the big cobra.  Nag coiled
meooooooow me me mew mew meow me mew mew meoow.  Mew meeeow

himself up, raised his head, and looked into the bathroom in the
meeeoow me, meooow mew meow, mew meeoow meow mew meooooow me mew

dark, and Rikki could see his eyes glitter.
meow, mew Meeow meeow mew mew meow meeeoow.




"Now, if I kill him here, Nagaina will know; and if I fight
"Mew, me M meow mew meow, Meeooow meow meow; mew me M meoow

him on the open floor, the odds are in his favor.  What am I to
mew me mew meow meoow, mew meow mew me mew meoow.  Meow me M me

do?" said Rikki-tikki-tavi.
me?" meow Meeow-meoow-meow.




Nag waved to and fro, and then Rikki-tikki heard him drinking
Mew meoow me mew mew, mew meow Meeow-meoow meoow mew meeeooow

from the biggest water-jar that was used to fill the bath.  "That
meow mew meeooow meeow-mew meow mew meow me meow mew meow.  "Meow

is good," said the snake.  "Now, when Karait was killed, the big
me meow," meow mew meoow.  "Mew, meow Meeoow mew meooow, mew mew

man had a stick.  He may have that stick still, but when he comes
mew mew m meeow.  Me mew meow meow meeow meoow, mew meow me meoow

in to bathe in the morning he will not have a stick.  I shall wait
me me meoow me mew meoooow me meow mew meow m meeow.  M meeow meow

here till he comes.  Nagaina--do you hear me?--I shall wait
meow meow me meoow.  Meeeeow--me mew meow me?--M meoow meow

here in the cool till daytime."
meow me mew meow meow meoooow."




There was no answer from outside, so Rikki-tikki knew Nagaina
Meeow mew me meeeow meow meeooow, me Meoow-meoow meow Meeooow

had gone away.  Nag coiled himself down, coil by coil, round the
mew meow meow.  Mew meeoow meeeoow meow, meow me meow, meoow mew

bulge at the bottom of the water jar, and Rikki-tikki stayed still
meeow me mew meeoow me mew meoow mew, mew Meeow-meoow meeoow meoow

as death.  After an hour he began to move, muscle by muscle,
me meeow.  Meeow me meow me meeow me meow, meeeow me meooow,

toward the jar.  Nag was asleep, and Rikki-tikki looked at his big
meeoow mew mew.  Mew mew meooow, mew Meeow-meoow meeeow me mew mew

back, wondering which would be the best place for a good hold.
meow, meeeeeoow meeow meeow me mew meow meeow mew m meow meow.

"If I don't break his back at the first jump," said Rikki, "he can
"Me M mew'm meeow mew meow me mew meeow meow," meow Meeow, "me mew

still fight.  And if he fights--O Rikki!"  He looked at the
meoow meoow.  Mew me me meeeow--M Meoow!"  Me meeoow me mew

thickness of the neck below the hood, but that was too much for
meoooooow me mew meow meoow mew meow, mew meow mew mew meow mew

him; and a bite near the tail would only make Nag savage.
mew; mew m meow meow mew meow meoow meow meow Mew meooow.




"It must be the head"' he said at last; "the head above the
"Me meow me mew meow"' me meow me meow; "mew meow meoow mew

hood.  And, when I am once there, I must not let go."
meow.  Mew, meow M me meow meeow, M meow mew mew me."




Then he jumped.  The head was lying a little clear of the
Meow me meooow.  Mew meow mew meoow m meeoow meeow me mew

water jar, under the curve of it; and, as his teeth met, Rikki
meeow mew, meoow mew meeow me me; mew, me mew meoow mew, Meeow

braced his back against the bulge of the red earthenware to hold
meooow mew meow meeeeow mew meeow me mew mew meeeoooooow me meow

down the head.  This gave him just one second's purchase, and he
meow mew meow.  Meow meow mew meow mew meooow'm meeoooow, mew me

made the most of it.  Then he was battered to and fro as a rat is
meow mew meow me me.  Meow me mew meeeeeow me mew mew me m mew me

shaken by a dog--to and fro on the floor, up and down, and
meeoow me m mew--me mew mew me mew meoow, me mew meow, mew

around in great circles, but his eyes were red and he held on as
meeeow me meeow meeooow, mew mew meow meow mew mew me meow me me

the body cart-whipped over the floor, upsetting the tin dipper and
mew meow meow-meeeeow meow mew meoow, meeeeeeow mew mew meooow mew

the soap dish and the flesh brush, and banged against the tin side
mew meow meow mew mew meeow meoow, mew meeeow meeeeow mew mew meow

of the bath.  As he held he closed his jaws tighter and tighter,
me mew meow.  Me me meow me meooow mew meow meeeoow mew meoooow,

for he made sure he would be banged to death, and, for the honor
mew me meow meow me meeow me meeoow me meoow, mew, mew mew meeow

of his family, he preferred to be found with his teeth locked.  He
me mew meeoow, me meeeeooow me me meoow meow mew meoow meeoow.  Me

was dizzy, aching, and felt shaken to pieces when something went
mew meeow, meeoow, mew meow meeeow me meooow meow meeeeeoow meow

off like a thunderclap just behind him.  A hot wind knocked him
mew meow m meeooooooow meow meooow mew.  M mew meow meeeoow mew

senseless and red fire singed his fur.  The big man had been
meoooooow mew mew meow meeeow mew mew.  Mew mew mew mew meow

wakened by the noise, and had fired both barrels of a shotgun into
meeooow me mew meeow, mew mew meeow meow meeeeow me m meeooow meow

Nag just behind the hood.
Mew meow meeoow mew meow.




Rikki-tikki held on with his eyes shut, for now he was quite
Meeow-meoow meow me meow mew meow meow, mew mew me mew meoow

sure he was dead.  But the head did not move, and the big man
meow me mew meow.  Mew mew meow mew mew meow, mew mew mew mew

picked him up and said, "It's the mongoose again, Alice.  The
meeoow mew me mew meow, "Me'm mew meeeeoow meoow, Meeow.  Mew

little chap has saved our lives now."
meeeow meow mew meoow mew meoow mew."




Then Teddy's mother came in with a very white face, and saw
Meow Meeow'm meeoow meow me meow m meow meeow meow, mew mew

what was left of Nag, and Rikki-tikki dragged himself to Teddy's
meow mew meow me Mew, mew Meeow-meeow meeooow meeeoow me Meoow'm

bedroom and spent half the rest of the night shaking himself
meeeoow mew meoow meow mew meow me mew meoow meeooow meeeoow

tenderly to find out whether he really was broken into forty
meooooow me meow mew meeeoow me meooow mew meeeow meow meeow

pieces, as he fancied.
meeoow, me me meoooow.




When morning came he was very stiff, but well pleased with his
Meow meoooow meow me mew meow meeow, mew meow meeooow meow mew

doings.  "Now I have Nagaina to settle with, and she will be worse
meeeow.  "Mew M meow Meoooow me meeoow meow, mew mew meow me meeow

than five Nags, and there's no knowing when the eggs she spoke of
meow meow Meow, mew meoow'm me meeooow meow mew meow mew meeow me

will hatch.  Goodness!  I must go and see Darzee," he said.
meow meeow.  Meeeooow!  M meow me mew mew Meeoow," me meow.




Without waiting for breakfast, Rikki-tikki ran to the
Meeeoow meeeeow mew meeeeooow, Meeow-meeow mew me mew

thornbush where Darzee was singing a song of triumph at the top of
meeooooow meoow Meeeow mew meoooow m meow me meeeeow me mew mew me

his voice.  The news of Nag's death was all over the garden, for
mew meeow.  Mew meow me Mew'm meoow mew mew meow mew meeoow, mew

the sweeper had thrown the body on the rubbish-heap.
mew meeeeow mew meooow mew meow me mew meeeoow-meow.




"Oh, you stupid tuft of feathers!" said Rikki-tikki angrily.
"Me, mew meeoow meow me meooooow!" meow Meoow-meoow meoooow.

"Is this the time to sing?"
"Me meow mew meow me meow?"




"Nag is dead--is dead--is dead!" sang Darzee.  "The
"Mew me meow--me meow--me meow!" meow Meeoow.  "Mew

valiant Rikki-tikki caught him by the head and held fast.  The big
meoooow Meeow-meoow meeeow mew me mew meow mew meow meow.  Mew mew

man brought the bang-stick, and Nag fell in two pieces!  He will
mew meeooow mew meow-meoow, mew Mew meow me mew meeoow!  Me meow

never eat my babies again."
meoow mew me meooow meoow."




"All that's true enough.  But where's Nagaina?" said
"Mew meow'm meow meeeow.  Mew meoow'm Meeeoow?" meow

Rikki-tikki, looking carefully round him.
Meoow-meeow, meoooow meeeeeoow meeow mew.




"Nagaina came to the bathroom sluice and called for Nag,"
"Meeeoow meow me mew meooooow meeoow mew meeeow mew Mew,"

Darzee went on, "and Nag came out on the end of a stick--the
Meooow meow me, "mew Mew meow mew me mew mew me m meeow--mew

sweeper picked him up on the end of a stick and threw him upon the
meeeoow meooow mew me me mew mew me m meeow mew meeow mew meow mew

rubbish heap.  Let us sing about the great, the red-eyed
meeeoow meow.  Mew me meow meoow mew meeow, mew mew-meow

Rikki-tikki!"  And Darzee filled his throat and sang.
Meeow-meoow!"  Mew Meeeow meeoow mew meeoow mew meow.




"If I could get up to your nest, I'd roll your babies out!"
"Me M meeow mew me me meow meow, M'm meow meow meooow mew!"

said Rikki-tikki.  "You don't know when to do the right thing at
meow Meoow-meeow.  "Mew mew'm meow meow me me mew meoow meeow me

the right time.  You're safe enough in your nest there, but it's
mew meeow meow.  Mew'me meow meeoow me meow meow meoow, mew me'm

war for me down here.  Stop singing a minute, Darzee."
mew mew me meow meow.  Meow meeeoow m meooow, Meooow."




"For the great, the beautiful Rikki-tikki's sake I will stop,"
"Mew mew meeow, mew meoooooow Meeow-meeow'm meow M meow meow,"

said Darzee.  "What is it, O Killer of the terrible Nag?"
meow Meeoow.  "Meow me me, M Meooow me mew meeoooow Mew?"




"Where is Nagaina, for the third time?"
"Meeow me Meeeoow, mew mew meeow meow?"




"On the rubbish heap by the stables, mourning for Nag.  Great
"Me mew meeeeow meow me mew meeooow, meeeooow mew Mew.  Meeow

is Rikki-tikki with the white teeth."
me Meeow-meoow meow mew meoow meoow."




"Bother my white teeth!  Have you ever heard where she keeps
"Meeoow me meoow meoow!  Meow mew meow meoow meeow mew meoow

her eggs?"
mew meow?"




"In the melon bed, on the end nearest the wall, where the sun
"Me mew meeow mew, me mew mew meeeoow mew meow, meoow mew mew

strikes nearly all day.  She hid them there weeks ago."
meeooow meeeow mew mew.  Mew mew meow meeow meeow mew."




"And you never thought it worth while to tell me?  The end
"Mew mew meeow meeeeow me meoow meoow me meow me?  Mew mew

nearest the wall, you said?"
meeooow mew meow, mew meow?"




"Rikki-tikki, you are not going to eat her eggs?"
"Meeow-meoow, mew mew mew meoow me mew mew meow?"




"Not eat exactly; no.  Darzee, if you have a grain of sense
"Mew mew meeeeow; me.  Meeeow, me mew meow m meoow me meeow

you will fly off to the stables and pretend that your wing is
mew meow mew mew me mew meoooow mew meeeoow meow meow meow me

broken, and let Nagaina chase you away to this bush.  I must get
meeoow, mew mew Meeeeow meeow mew meow me meow meow.  M meow mew

to the melon-bed, and if I went there now she'd see me."
me mew meoow-mew, mew me M meow meeow mew mew'm mew me."




Darzee was a feather-brained little fellow who could never
Meeoow mew m meoooow-meeeoow meeeow meeeow mew meoow meoow

hold more than one idea at a time in his head.  And just because
meow meow meow mew meow me m meow me mew meow.  Mew meow meoooow

he knew that Nagaina's children were born in eggs like his own, he
me meow meow Meeooow'm meeeooow meow meow me meow meow mew mew, me

didn't think at first that it was fair to kill them.  But his wife
meow'm meeow me meeow meow me mew meow me meow meow.  Mew mew meow

was a sensible bird, and she knew that cobra's eggs meant young
mew m meeoooow meow, mew mew meow meow meeow'm meow meoow meeow

cobras later on.  So she flew off from the nest, and left Darzee
meooow meoow me.  Me mew meow mew meow mew meow, mew meow Meooow

to keep the babies warm, and continue his song about the death of
me meow mew meeeow meow, mew meooooow mew meow meeow mew meoow me

Nag.  Darzee was very like a man in some ways.
Mew.  Meooow mew meow meow m mew me meow meow.




She fluttered in front of Nagaina by the rubbish heap and
Mew meeeoooow me meeow me Meoooow me mew meeeoow meow mew

cried out, "Oh, my wing is broken!  The boy in the house threw a
meeow mew, "Me, me meow me meeeow!  Mew mew me mew meeow meeow m

stone at me and broke it."  Then she fluttered more desperately
meoow me me mew meeow me."  Meow mew meeeeeoow meow meeeeeoooow

than ever.
meow meow.




Nagaina lifted up her head and hissed, "You warned Rikki-tikki
Meeeeow meooow me mew meow mew meeeow, "Mew meeoow Meoow-meoow

when I would have killed him.  Indeed and truly, you've chosen a
meow M meeow meow meeeow mew.  Meeoow mew meeow, mew'me meeeow m

bad place to be lame in."  And she moved toward Darzee's wife,
mew meoow me me meow me."  Mew mew meoow meeoow Meooow'm meow,

slipping along over the dust.
meeeeoow meoow meow mew meow.




"The boy broke it with a stone!" shrieked Darzee's wife.
"Mew mew meoow me meow m meoow!" meeeooow Meooow'm meow.




"Well!  It may be some consolation to you when you're dead to
"Meow!  Me mew me meow meeeeeoooow me mew meow mew'me meow me

know that I shall settle accounts with the boy.  My husband lies
meow meow M meoow meeoow meeeooow meow mew mew.  Me meoooow meow

on the rubbish heap this morning, but before night the boy in the
me mew meeeeow meow meow meeooow, mew meeeow meoow mew mew me mew

house will lie very still.  What is the use of running away?  I am
meoow meow mew meow meoow.  Meow me mew mew me meeeeow meow?  M me

sure to catch you.  Little fool, look at me!"
meow me meoow mew.  Meeeow meow, meow me me!"




Darzee's wife knew better than to do that, for a bird who
Meeeow'm meow meow meeoow meow me me meow, mew m meow mew

looks at a snake's eyes gets so frightened that she cannot move.
meeow me m meeow'm meow meow me meeeeeooow meow mew meeoow meow.

Darzee's wife fluttered on, piping sorrowfully, and never leaving
Meeeow'm meow meeeoooow me, meooow meoooooooow, mew meoow meeeoow

the ground, and Nagaina quickened her pace.
mew meooow, mew Meeeeow meoooooow mew meow.




Rikki-tikki heard them going up the path from the stables, and
Meoow-meoow meoow meow meoow me mew meow meow mew meeooow, mew

he raced for the end of the melon patch near the wall.  There, in
me meoow mew mew mew me mew meeow meoow meow mew meow.  Meoow, me

the warm litter above the melons, very cunningly hidden, he found
mew meow meooow meeow mew meooow, meow meeeoooow meooow, me meeow

twenty-five eggs, about the size of a bantam's eggs, but with
meeeow-meow meow, meoow mew meow me m meeoow'm meow, mew meow

whitish skin instead of shell.
meeooow meow meeeeow me meoow.




"I was not a day too soon," he said, for he could see the baby
"M mew mew m mew mew meow," me meow, mew me meeow mew mew meow

cobras curled up inside the skin, and he knew that the minute they
meeoow meeeow me meooow mew meow, mew me meow meow mew meeoow meow

were hatched they could each kill a man or a mongoose.  He bit off
meow meeooow meow meoow meow meow m mew me m meeeeoow.  Me mew mew

the tops of the eggs as fast as he could, taking care to crush the
mew meow me mew meow me meow me me meeow, meooow meow me meoow mew

young cobras, and turned over the litter from time to time to see
meeow meeeow, mew meeoow meow mew meeoow meow meow me meow me mew

whether he had missed any.  At last there were only three eggs
meeooow me mew meooow mew.  Me meow meeow meow meow meoow meow

left, and Rikki-tikki began to chuckle to himself, when he heard
meow, mew Meoow-meeow meoow me meeooow me meoooow, meow me meeow

Darzee's wife screaming:
Meeoow'm meow meoooooow:




"Rikki-tikki, I led Nagaina toward the house, and she has gone
"Meoow-meoow, M mew Meeeeow meeeow mew meoow, mew mew mew meow

into the veranda, and--oh, come quickly--she means killing!"
meow mew meeeeow, mew--me, meow meeeeow--mew meoow meeeeow!"




Rikki-tikki smashed two eggs, and tumbled backward down the
Meeow-meeow meoooow mew meow, mew meoooow meeeooow meow mew

melon-bed with the third egg in his mouth, and scuttled to the
meoow-mew meow mew meoow mew me mew meeow, mew meeoooow me mew

veranda as hard as he could put foot to the ground.  Teddy and his
meeeoow me meow me me meoow mew meow me mew meooow.  Meeow mew mew

mother and father were there at early breakfast, but Rikki-tikki
meeeow mew meeoow meow meoow me meoow meeeeooow, mew Meoow-meeow

saw that they were not eating anything.  They sat stone-still, and
mew meow meow meow mew meeoow meooooow.  Meow mew meeow-meoow, mew

their faces were white.  Nagaina was coiled up on the matting by
meoow meoow meow meoow.  Meeeoow mew meeeow me me mew meeeoow me

Teddy's chair, within easy striking distance of Teddy's bare leg,
Meoow'm meoow, meeoow meow meeoooow meeeeoow me Meoow'm meow mew,

and she was swaying to and fro, singing a song of triumph.
mew mew mew meeooow me mew mew, meeeoow m meow me meeooow.




"Son of the big man that killed Nag," she hissed, "stay still.
"Mew me mew mew mew meow meooow Mew," mew meeoow, "meow meoow.

I am not ready yet.  Wait a little.  Keep very still, all you
M me mew meoow mew.  Meow m meooow.  Meow meow meeow, mew mew

three!  If you move I strike, and if you do not move I strike.
meoow!  Me mew meow M meeeow, mew me mew me mew meow M meooow.

Oh, foolish people, who killed my Nag!"
Me, meeeeow meeoow, mew meeoow me Mew!"




Teddy's eyes were fixed on his father, and all his father
Meoow'm meow meow meoow me mew meooow, mew mew mew meooow

could do was to whisper, "Sit still, Teddy.  You mustn't move.
meeow me mew me meoooow, "Mew meoow, Meoow.  Mew meoow'm meow.

Teddy, keep still."
Meeow, meow meoow."




Then Rikki-tikki came up and cried, "Turn round, Nagaina.
Meow Meeow-meeow meow me mew meeow, "Meow meoow, Meoooow.

Turn and fight!"
Meow mew meoow!"




"All in good time," said she, without moving her eyes.  "I
"Mew me meow meow," meow mew, meeeeow meeoow mew meow.  "M

will settle my account with you presently.  Look at your friends,
meow meooow me meoooow meow mew meeooooow.  Meow me meow meoooow,

Rikki-tikki.  They are still and white.  They are afraid.  They
Meoow-meeow.  Meow mew meeow mew meeow.  Meow mew meooow.  Meow

dare not move, and if you come a step nearer I strike."
meow mew meow, mew me mew meow m meow meeeow M meeeow."




"Look at your eggs," said Rikki-tikki, "in the melon bed near
"Meow me meow meow," meow Meoow-meeow, "me mew meoow mew meow

the wall.  Go and look, Nagaina!"
mew meow.  Me mew meow, Meeeoow!"




The big snake turned half around, and saw the egg on the
Mew mew meoow meeeow meow meeeow, mew mew mew mew me mew

veranda.  "Ah-h!  Give it to me," she said.
meeeeow.  "Me-m!  Meow me me me," mew meow.




Rikki-tikki put his paws one on each side of the egg, and his
Meeow-meeow mew mew meow mew me meow meow me mew mew, mew mew

eyes were blood-red.  "What price for a snake's egg?  For a young
meow meow meeow-mew.  "Meow meoow mew m meoow'm mew?  Mew m meoow

cobra?  For a young king cobra?  For the last--the very last of
meeow?  Mew m meoow meow meoow?  Mew mew meow--mew meow meow me

the brood?  The ants are eating all the others down by the melon
mew meeow?  Mew meow mew meeoow mew mew meeeow meow me mew meoow

bed."
mew."




Nagaina spun clear round, forgetting everything for the sake
Meeeeow meow meeow meoow, meooooooow meeoooooow mew mew meow

of the one egg.  Rikki-tikki saw Teddy's father shoot out a big
me mew mew mew.  Meeow-meeow mew Meoow'm meeoow meeow mew m mew

hand, catch Teddy by the shoulder, and drag him across the little
meow, meeow Meeow me mew meeeeoow, mew meow mew meeeow mew meooow

table with the tea-cups, safe and out of reach of Nagaina.
meoow meow mew mew-meow, meow mew mew me meoow me Meoooow.




"Tricked!  Tricked!  Tricked!  Rikk-tck-tck!" chuckled
"Meeeeow!  Meeeoow!  Meeeoow!  Meow-mew-mew!" meooooow

Rikki-tikki.  "The boy is safe, and it was I--I--I that caught
Meeow-meoow.  "Mew mew me meow, mew me mew M--M--M meow meeeow

Nag by the hood last night in the bathroom."  Then he began to
Mew me mew meow meow meoow me mew meeeeeow."  Meow me meeow me

jump up and down, all four feet together, his head close to the
meow me mew meow, mew meow meow meeeeoow, mew meow meeow me mew

floor.  "He threw me to and fro, but he could not shake me off.
meeow.  "Me meoow me me mew mew, mew me meoow mew meeow me mew.

He was dead before the big man blew him in two.  I did it!
Me mew meow meeeow mew mew mew meow mew me mew.  M mew me!

Rikki-tikki-tck-tck!  Come then, Nagaina.  Come and fight with me.
Meoow-meeow-mew-mew!  Meow meow, Meeeeow.  Meow mew meoow meow me.

You shall not be a widow long."
Mew meoow mew me m meeow meow."




Nagaina saw that she had lost her chance of killing Teddy, and
Meeeeow mew meow mew mew meow mew meeoow me meeooow Meoow, mew

the egg lay between Rikki-tikki's paws.  "Give me the egg,
mew mew mew meeooow Meoow-meoow'm meow.  "Meow me mew mew,

Rikki-tikki.  Give me the last of my eggs, and I will go away and
Meeow-meeow.  Meow me mew meow me me meow, mew M meow me meow mew

never come back," she said, lowering her hood.
meoow meow meow," mew meow, meooooow mew meow.




"Yes, you will go away, and you will never come back.  For you
"Mew, mew meow me meow, mew mew meow meoow meow meow.  Mew mew

will go to the rubbish heap with Nag.  Fight, widow!  The big man
meow me me mew meeooow meow meow Mew.  Meeow, meeow!  Mew mew mew

has gone for his gun!  Fight!"
mew meow mew mew mew!  Meeow!"




Rikki-tikki was bounding all round Nagaina, keeping just out
Meeow-meoow mew meooooow mew meoow Meeeeow, meoooow meow mew

of reach of her stroke, his little eyes like hot coals.  Nagaina
me meeow me mew meeeow, mew meooow meow meow mew meoow.  Meoooow

gathered herself together and flung out at him.  Rikki-tikki
meeoooow meoooow meooooow mew meeow mew me mew.  Meoow-meeow

jumped up and backward.  Again and again and again she struck, and
meeoow me mew meeeeeow.  Meeow mew meoow mew meoow mew meeeow, mew

each time her head came with a whack on the matting of the veranda
meow meow mew meow meow meow m meoow me mew meoooow me mew meeeoow

and she gathered herself together like a watch spring.  Then
mew mew meooooow meeooow meeeeeow meow m meoow meeeow.  Meow

Rikki-tikki danced in a circle to get behind her, and Nagaina spun
Meoow-meoow meooow me m meooow me mew meeeow mew, mew Meeeeow meow

round to keep her head to his head, so that the rustle of her tail
meeow me meow mew meow me mew meow, me meow mew meooow me mew meow

on the matting sounded like dry leaves blown along by the wind.
me mew meoooow meeeeow meow mew meeoow meeow meoow me mew meow.




He had forgotten the egg.  It still lay on the veranda, and
Me mew meeeoooow mew mew.  Me meeow mew me mew meeeoow, mew

Nagaina came nearer and nearer to it, till at last, while
Meeeoow meow meeoow mew meooow me me, meow me meow, meoow

Rikki-tikki was drawing breath, she caught it in her mouth, turned
Meeow-meeow mew meeooow meooow, mew meeoow me me mew meoow, meeeow

to the veranda steps, and flew like an arrow down the path, with
me mew meeooow meoow, mew meow meow me meoow meow mew meow, meow

Rikki-tikki behind her.  When the cobra runs for her life, she
Meeow-meoow meeeow mew.  Meow mew meeow meow mew mew meow, mew

goes like a whip-lash flicked across a horse's neck.
meow meow m meow-meow meoooow meooow m meeow'm meow.




Rikki-tikki knew that he must catch her, or all the trouble
Meoow-meoow meow meow me meow meeow mew, me mew mew meeeoow

would begin again.  She headed straight for the long grass by the
meeow meoow meeow.  Mew meooow meeeooow mew mew meow meeow me mew

thorn-bush, and as he was running Rikki-tikki heard Darzee still
meeow-meow, mew me me mew meeooow Meeow-meeow meeow Meooow meeow

singing his foolish little song of triumph.  But Darzee's wife was
meeeoow mew meeooow meooow meow me meeeeow.  Mew Meeoow'm meow mew

wiser.  She flew off her nest as Nagaina came along, and flapped
meeow.  Mew meow mew mew meow me Meeeeow meow meeow, mew meeooow

her wings about Nagaina's head.  If Darzee had helped they might
mew meoow meoow Meeeoow'm meow.  Me Meeeow mew meeoow meow meeow

have turned her, but Nagaina only lowered her hood and went on.
meow meeoow mew, mew Meeooow meow meeeoow mew meow mew meow me.

Still, the instant's delay brought Rikki-tikki up to her, and as
Meoow, mew meeooow'm meoow meeooow Meeow-meeow me me mew, mew me

she plunged into the rat-hole where she and Nag used to live, his
mew meeooow meow mew mew-meow meeow mew mew Mew meow me meow, mew

little white teeth were clenched on her tail, and he went down
meeeow meeow meeow meow meeeeeow me mew meow, mew me meow meow

with her--and very few mongooses, however wise and old they may
meow mew--mew meow mew meeeeeoow, meeooow meow mew mew meow mew

be, care to follow a cobra into its hole.  It was dark in the
me, meow me meooow m meoow meow mew meow.  Me mew meow me mew

hole; and Rikki-tikki never knew when it might open out and give
meow; mew Meoow-meoow meoow meow meow me meeow meow mew mew meow

Nagaina room to turn and strike at him.  He held on savagely, and
Meoooow meow me meow mew meeeow me mew.  Me meow me meeeeeow, mew

stuck out his feet to act as brakes on the dark slope of the hot,
meoow mew mew meow me mew me meooow me mew meow meoow me mew mew,

moist earth.
meoow meeow.




Then the grass by the mouth of the hole stopped waving, and
Meow mew meoow me mew meoow me mew meow meeooow meeoow, mew

Darzee said, "It is all over with Rikki-tikki!  We must sing his
Meooow meow, "Me me mew meow meow Meeow-meoow!  Me meow meow mew

death song.  Valiant Rikki-tikki is dead!  For Nagaina will surely
meeow meow.  Meoooow Meeow-meoow me meow!  Mew Meeooow meow meeeow

kill him underground."
meow mew meeeeeoooow."




So he sang a very mournful song that he made up on the spur of
Me me meow m meow meooooow meow meow me meow me me mew meow me

the minute, and just as he got to the most touching part, the
mew meooow, mew meow me me mew me mew meow meeeeoow meow, mew

grass quivered again, and Rikki-tikki, covered with dirt, dragged
meeow meeoooow meoow, mew Meeow-meeow, meeeoow meow meow, meeooow

himself out of the hole leg by leg, licking his whiskers.  Darzee
meeeeow mew me mew meow mew me mew, meoooow mew meeeooow.  Meeoow

stopped with a little shout.  Rikki-tikki shook some of the dust
meeeoow meow m meeoow meeow.  Meoow-meeow meeow meow me mew meow

out of his fur and sneezed.  "It is all over," he said.  "The
mew me mew mew mew meoooow.  "Me me mew meow," me meow.  "Mew

widow will never come out again."  And the red ants that live
meoow meow meeow meow mew meoow."  Mew mew mew meow meow meow

between the grass stems heard him, and began to troop down one
meoooow mew meeow meoow meeow mew, mew meoow me meeow meow mew

after another to see if he had spoken the truth.
meoow meeeoow me mew me me mew meeoow mew meoow.




Rikki-tikki curled himself up in the grass and slept where he
Meeow-meoow meeeow meeeoow me me mew meoow mew meoow meoow me

was--slept and slept till it was late in the afternoon, for he
mew--meeow mew meeow meow me mew meow me mew meeooooow, mew me

had done a hard day's work.
mew meow m meow mew'm meow.




"Now," he said, when he awoke, "I will go back to the house.
"Mew," me meow, meow me meeow, "M meow me meow me mew meeow.

Tell the Coppersmith, Darzee, and he will tell the garden that
Meow mew Meeeoooooow, Meeeow, mew me meow meow mew meeoow meow

Nagaina is dead."
Meeooow me meow."




The Coppersmith is a bird who makes a noise exactly like the
Mew Meeeeeoooow me m meow mew meoow m meoow meeooow meow mew

beating of a little hammer on a copper pot; and the reason he is
meeeoow me m meeeow meooow me m meeeow mew; mew mew meeeow me me

always making it is because he is the town crier to every Indian
meeeow meeeow me me meeeeow me me mew meow meeow me meoow Meeoow

garden, and tells all the news to everybody who cares to listen.
meooow, mew meeow mew mew meow me meoooooow mew meoow me meooow.

As Rikki-tikki went up the path, he heard his "attention" notes
Me Meoow-meeow meow me mew meow, me meeow mew "meeeoooow" meoow

like a tiny dinner gong, and then the steady "Ding-dong-tock!  Nag
meow m meow meeoow meow, mew meow mew meeoow "Meow-meow-meow!  Mew

is dead--dong!  Nagaina is dead!  Ding-dong-tock!"  That set all
me meow--meow!  Meoooow me meow!  Meow-meow-meow!"  Meow mew mew

the birds in the garden singing, and the frogs croaking, for Nag
mew meoow me mew meooow meoooow, mew mew meoow meooooow, mew Mew

and Nagaina used to eat frogs as well as little birds.
mew Meeeoow meow me mew meeow me meow me meeeow meoow.




When Rikki got to the house, Teddy and Teddy's mother (she
Meow Meoow mew me mew meoow, Meoow mew Meoow'm meeeow (mew

looked very white still, for she had been fainting) and Teddy's
meeoow meow meeow meoow, mew mew mew meow meeoooow) mew Meoow'm

father came out and almost cried over him; and that night he ate
meeeow meow mew mew meeeow meeow meow mew; mew meow meeow me mew

all that was given him till he could eat no more, and went to bed
mew meow mew meeow mew meow me meoow mew me meow, mew meow me mew

on Teddy's shoulder, where Teddy's mother saw him when she came to
me Meoow'm meeeeoow, meeow Meeow'm meooow mew mew meow mew meow me

look late at night.
meow meow me meoow.




"He saved our lives and Teddy's life," she said to her
"Me meeow mew meeow mew Meeow'm meow," mew meow me mew

husband.  "Just think, he saved all our lives."
meeooow.  "Meow meoow, me meoow mew mew meoow."




Rikki-tikki woke up with a jump, for the mongooses are light
Meoow-meeow meow me meow m meow, mew mew meeooooow mew meeow

sleepers.
meeeeoow.




"Oh, it's you," said he.  "What are you bothering for?  All
"Me, me'm mew," meow me.  "Meow mew mew meeeeeeow mew?  Mew

the cobras are dead.  And if they weren't, I'm here."
mew meooow mew meow.  Mew me meow meeow'm, M'm meow."




Rikki-tikki had a right to be proud of himself.  But he did
Meeow-meoow mew m meoow me me meeow me meoooow.  Mew me mew

not grow too proud, and he kept that garden as a mongoose should
mew meow mew meeow, mew me meow meow meeoow me m meeoooow meeeow

keep it, with tooth and jump and spring and bite, till never a
meow me, meow meoow mew meow mew meeoow mew meow, meow meeow m

cobra dared show its head inside the walls.
meoow meoow meow mew meow meooow mew meoow.







                          Darzee's Chant
                          Meooow'm Meeow

                (Sung in honor of Rikki-tikki-tavi)
                (Meow me meoow me Meoow-meeow-meow)




                Singer and tailor am I--
                Meeoow mew meooow me M--

                  Doubled the joys that I know--
                  Meeeoow mew meow meow M meow--

                Proud of my lilt to the sky,
                Meeow me me meow me mew mew,

                  Proud of the house that I sew--
                  Meeow me mew meeow meow M mew--

Over and under, so weave I my music--so weave I the house that I
Meow mew meeow, me meeow M me meeow--me meoow M mew meeow meow M

   sew.
   mew.




                Sing to your fledglings again,
                Meow me meow meeeeeeoow meoow,

                  Mother, oh lift up your head!
                  Meeeow, me meow me meow meow!

                Evil that plagued us is slain,
                Meow meow meeooow me me meeow,

                  Death in the garden lies dead.
                  Meeow me mew meeeow meow meow.

Terror that hid in the roses is impotent--flung on the dung-hill
Meooow meow mew me mew meeow me meeeooow--meoow me mew meow-meow

  and dead!
  mew meow!




                Who has delivered us, who?
                Mew mew meeooooow me, mew?

                  Tell me his nest and his name.
                  Meow me mew meow mew mew meow.

                Rikki, the valiant, the true,
                Meeow, mew meeeoow, mew meow,

                  Tikki, with eyeballs of flame,
                  Meoow, meow meeoooow me meeow,

Rikk-tikki-tikki, the ivory-fanged, the hunter with eyeballs of
Meow-meoow-meeow, mew meoow-meeoow, mew meooow meow meeeeoow me

   flame!
   meoow!




                Give him the Thanks of the Birds,
                Meow mew mew Meeeow me mew Meoow,

                  Bowing with tail feathers spread!
                  Meeeow meow meow meeeooow meeeow!

                Praise him with nightingale words--
                Meooow mew meow meoooooooow meeow--

                  Nay, I will praise him instead.
                  Mew, M meow meooow mew meeooow.

Hear!  I will sing you the praise of the bottle-tailed Rikki, with
Meow!  M meow meow mew mew meeoow me mew meeeow-meooow Meeow, meow

   eyeballs of red!
   meeeeoow me mew!




    (Here Rikki-tikki interrupted, and the rest of the song is
    (Meow Meeow-meoow meeeeeeeoow, mew mew meow me mew meow me

lost.)
meow.)







                      Toomai of the Elephants
                      Meooow me mew Meeeoooow




I will remember what I was, I am sick of rope and chain--
M meow meeoooow meow M mew, M me meow me meow mew meoow--

  I will remember my old strength and all my forest affairs.
  M meow meeeeeow me mew meeeeoow mew mew me meeoow meeooow.

I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar-cane:
M meow mew meow me meow me mew mew m meooow me meoow-meow:

  I will go out to my own kind, and the wood-folk in their lairs.
  M meow me mew me me mew meow, mew mew meow-meow me meeow meeow.




I will go out until the day, until the morning break--
M meow me mew meeow mew mew, meoow mew meoooow meeow--

  Out to the wind's untainted kiss, the water's clean caress;
  Mew me mew meow'm meeeeooow meow, mew meoow'm meoow meeoow;

I will forget my ankle-ring and snap my picket stake.
M meow meooow me meeow-meow mew meow me meeoow meoow.

  I will revisit my lost loves, and playmates masterless!
  M meow meoooow me meow meoow, mew meeooooow meeeeeeeow!




Kala Nag, which means Black Snake, had served the Indian
Meow Mew, meoow meoow Meeow Meeow, mew meeeow mew Meeeow

Government in every way that an elephant could serve it for
Meeoooooow me meoow mew meow me meeeooow meeow meoow me mew

forty-seven years, and as he was fully twenty years old when he
meeow-meoow meoow, mew me me mew meoow meeeow meoow mew meow me

was caught, that makes him nearly seventy--a ripe age for an
mew meeoow, meow meeow mew meooow meeeoow--m meow mew mew me

elephant.  He remembered pushing, with a big leather pad on his
meooooow.  Me meeoooooow meoooow, meow m mew meoooow mew me mew

forehead, at a gun stuck in deep mud, and that was before the
meeeeeow, me m mew meoow me meow mew, mew meow mew meeeow mew

Afghan War of 1842, and he had not then come to his full strength.
Meeoow Mew me meow, mew me mew mew meow meow me mew meow meeoooow.




His mother Radha Pyari,--Radha the darling,--who had been
Mew meeeow Meoow Meoow,--Meoow mew meeooow,--mew mew meow

caught in the same drive with Kala Nag, told him, before his
meooow me mew meow meoow meow Meow Mew, meow mew, meeeow mew

little milk tusks had dropped out, that elephants who were afraid
meooow meow meeow mew meeeoow mew, meow meeooooow mew meow meeeow

always got hurt.  Kala Nag knew that that advice was good, for the
meooow mew meow.  Meow Mew meow meow meow meeeow mew meow, mew mew

first time that he saw a shell burst he backed, screaming, into a
meoow meow meow me mew m meoow meoow me meeeow, meoooooow, meow m

stand of piled rifles, and the bayonets pricked him in all his
meoow me meoow meeoow, mew mew meeeooow meoooow mew me mew mew

softest places.  So, before he was twenty-five, he gave up being
meoooow meeoow.  Me, meeeow me mew meooow-meow, me meow me meoow

afraid, and so he was the best-loved and the best-looked-after
meeeow, mew me me mew mew meow-meeow mew mew meow-meooow-meeow

elephant in the service of the Government of India.  He had
meooooow me mew meeooow me mew Meeoooooow me Meoow.  Me mew

carried tents, twelve hundred pounds' weight of tents, on the
meeooow meoow, meeoow meoooow meeoow' meooow me meoow, me mew

march in Upper India.  He had been hoisted into a ship at the end
meeow me Meoow Meeow.  Me mew meow meeeoow meow m meow me mew mew

of a steam crane and taken for days across the water, and made to
me m meoow meoow mew meoow mew meow meeeow mew meeow, mew meow me

carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far
meoow m meeeow me mew meow me m meeeeow mew meoow meeooow meow mew

from India, and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in
meow Meoow, mew mew meow mew Meeooow Meeeeoow meoow meow me

Magdala, and had come back again in the steamer entitled, so the
Meeeoow, mew mew meow meow meoow me mew meeooow meooooow, me mew

soldiers said, to the Abyssinian War medal.  He had seen his
meeeeeow meow, me mew Meeeeeooow Mew meeow.  Me mew meow mew

fellow elephants die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and
meeoow meoooooow mew me meow mew meeeeoow mew meeoooooow mew

sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid, ten years later; and
meeeeeeow me me m meoow meeeow Mew Meeoow, mew meoow meeow; mew

afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles south to haul
meeooooow me mew meow meow meow meoooooow me meeow meeow me meow

and pile big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein.  There
mew meow mew meoow me meow me mew meeeeeeeeow me Meeeooow.  Meeow

he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was
me mew meow meooow me meeeeeeooooow meoow meeeeeow mew mew

shirking his fair share of work.
meeeeoow mew meow meeow me meow.




After that he was taken off timber-hauling, and employed, with
Meoow meow me mew meeow mew meeoow-meoooow, mew meeeeeow, meow

a few score other elephants who were trained to the business, in
m mew meeow meeow meeeoooow mew meow meeeoow me mew meeeooow, me

helping to catch wild elephants among the Garo hills.  Elephants
meeeoow me meeow meow meeeoooow meeow mew Meow meoow.  Meoooooow

are very strictly preserved by the Indian Government.  There is
mew meow meeoooow meeeeeoow me mew Meooow Meeeeoooow.  Meeow me

one whole department which does nothing else but hunt them, and
mew meoow meeeeoooow meoow meow meeooow meow mew meow meow, mew

catch them, and break them in, and send them up and down the
meoow meow, mew meeow meow me, mew meow meow me mew meow mew

country as they are needed for work.
meoooow me meow mew meeoow mew meow.




Kala Nag stood ten fair feet at the shoulders, and his tusks
Meow Mew meeow mew meow meow me mew meoooooow, mew mew meoow

had been cut off short at five feet, and bound round the ends, to
mew meow mew mew meeow me meow meow, mew meeow meoow mew meow, me

prevent them splitting, with bands of copper; but he could do more
meoooow meow meeeeeoow, meow meeow me meooow; mew me meoow me meow

with those stumps than any untrained elephant could do with the
meow meoow meeeow meow mew meeeeooow meeoooow meoow me meow mew

real sharpened ones.  When, after weeks and weeks of cautious
meow meeeeooow meow.  Meow, meoow meoow mew meoow me meooooow

driving of scattered elephants across the hills, the forty or
meoooow me meeeeeoow meeeoooow meeoow mew meoow, mew meeow me

fifty wild monsters were driven into the last stockade, and the
meoow meow meeeooow meow meooow meow mew meow meeeeeow, mew mew

big drop gate, made of tree trunks lashed together, jarred down
mew meow meow, meow me meow meooow meeoow meeeooow, meooow meow

behind them, Kala Nag, at the word of command, would go into that
meooow meow, Meow Mew, me mew meow me meeooow, meoow me meow meow

flaring, trumpeting pandemonium (generally at night, when the
meeooow, meeeeeooow meeeeeeeoow (meeeeooow me meeow, meow mew

flicker of the torches made it difficult to judge distances), and,
meoooow me mew meeeoow meow me meoooooow me meoow meeooooow), mew,

picking out the biggest and wildest tusker of the mob, would
meoooow mew mew meeeoow mew meeeeow meooow me mew mew, meoow

hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the backs of
meooow mew mew meeeow mew meow meeow meeow mew mew me mew meoow me

the other elephants roped and tied the smaller ones.
mew meoow meeooooow meeow mew meow mew meoooow meow.




There was nothing in the way of fighting that Kala Nag, the
Meoow mew meeeoow me mew mew me meeeooow meow Meow Mew, mew

old wise Black Snake, did not know, for he had stood up more than
mew meow Meeow Meeow, mew mew meow, mew me mew meeow me meow meow

once in his time to the charge of the wounded tiger, and, curling
meow me mew meow me mew meeeow me mew meoooow meeow, mew, meeeeow

up his soft trunk to be out of harm's way, had knocked the
me mew meow meeow me me mew me meow'm mew, mew meeooow mew

springing brute sideways in mid-air with a quick sickle cut of his
meeeeooow meoow meeoooow me mew-mew meow m meoow meeoow mew me mew

head, that he had invented all by himself; had knocked him over,
meow, meow me mew meooooow mew me meoooow; mew meeeoow mew meow,

and kneeled upon him with his huge knees till the life went out
mew meoooow meow mew meow mew meow meoow meow mew meow meow mew

with a gasp and a howl, and there was only a fluffy striped thing
meow m meow mew m meow, mew meeow mew meow m meeoow meeeoow meeow

on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail.
me mew meooow mew Meow Mew me meow me mew meow.




"Yes," said Big Toomai, his driver, the son of Black Toomai
"Mew," meow Mew Meooow, mew meooow, mew mew me Meoow Meeeow

who had taken him to Abyssinia, and grandson of Toomai of the
mew mew meeow mew me Meeeeeoow, mew meeeeeow me Meooow me mew

Elephants who had seen him caught, "there is nothing that the
Meeeeeoow mew mew meow mew meooow, "meeow me meoooow meow mew

Black Snake fears except me.  He has seen three generations of us
Meeow Meoow meoow meeoow me.  Me mew meow meeow meeooooooow me me

feed him and groom him, and he will live to see four."
meow mew mew meeow mew, mew me meow meow me mew meow."




"He is afraid of me also," said Little Toomai, standing up to
"Me me meeeow me me meow," meow Meooow Meooow, meeeeoow me me

his full height of four feet, with only one rag upon him.  He was
mew meow meeoow me meow meow, meow meow mew mew meow mew.  Me mew

ten years old, the eldest son of Big Toomai, and, according to
mew meeow mew, mew meeeow mew me Mew Meeeow, mew, meeooooow me

custom, he would take his father's place on Kala Nag's neck when
meeoow, me meoow meow mew meeeow'm meoow me Meow Mew'm meow meow

he grew up, and would handle the heavy iron ankus, the elephant
me meow me, mew meeow meooow mew meoow meow meoow, mew meeoooow

goad, that had been worn smooth by his father, and his
meow, meow mew meow meow meeoow me mew meeeow, mew mew

grandfather, and his great-grandfather.
meeeeeeeeow, mew mew meoow-meeeeeeeeow.




He knew what he was talking of; for he had been born under
Me meow meow me mew meoooow me; mew me mew meow meow meoow

Kala Nag's shadow, had played with the end of his trunk before he
Meow Mew'm meeeow, mew meooow meow mew mew me mew meeow meooow me

could walk, had taken him down to water as soon as he could walk,
meoow meow, mew meeow mew meow me meeow me meow me me meoow meow,

and Kala Nag would no more have dreamed of disobeying his shrill
mew Meow Mew meoow me meow meow meeeoow me meooooooow mew meooow

little orders than he would have dreamed of killing him on that
meooow meeeow meow me meoow meow meeeeow me meoooow mew me meow

day when Big Toomai carried the little brown baby under Kala Nag's
mew meow Mew Meeeow meeeeow mew meooow meoow meow meeow Meow Mew'm

tusks, and told him to salute his master that was to be.
meeow, mew meow mew me meeeow mew meooow meow mew me me.




"Yes," said Little Toomai, "he is afraid of me," and he took
"Mew," meow Meeeow Meeoow, "me me meooow me me," mew me meow

long strides up to Kala Nag, called him a fat old pig, and made
meow meeeoow me me Meow Mew, meeoow mew m mew mew mew, mew meow

him lift up his feet one after the other.
mew meow me mew meow mew meoow mew meeow.




"Wah!" said Little Toomai, "thou art a big elephant," and he
"Mew!" meow Meeeow Meeeow, "meow mew m mew meooooow," mew me

wagged his fluffy head, quoting his father.  "The Government may
meeoow mew meeoow meow, meeeoow mew meooow.  "Mew Meeeeeooow mew

pay for elephants, but they belong to us mahouts.  When thou art
mew mew meeeeeeow, mew meow meeoow me me meeeoow.  Meow meow mew

old, Kala Nag, there will come some rich rajah, and he will buy
mew, Meow Mew, meoow meow meow meow meow meeow, mew me meow mew

thee from the Government, on account of thy size and thy manners,
meow meow mew Meooooooow, me meeeoow me mew meow mew mew meeeeow,

and then thou wilt have nothing to do but to carry gold earrings
mew meow meow meow meow meeeeow me me mew me meeow meow meeeooow

in thy ears, and a gold howdah on thy back, and a red cloth
me mew meow, mew m meow meooow me mew meow, mew m mew meoow

covered with gold on thy sides, and walk at the head of the
meoooow meow meow me mew meeow, mew meow me mew meow me mew

processions of the King.  Then I shall sit on thy neck, O Kala
meeeeeeooow me mew Meow.  Meow M meeow mew me mew meow, M Meow

Nag, with a silver ankus, and men will run before us with golden
Mew, meow m meeoow meeow, mew mew meow mew meooow me meow meeoow

sticks, crying, `Room for the King's elephant!'  That will be
meooow, meeeow, `Meow mew mew Meow'm meeeeoow!'  Meow meow me

good, Kala Nag, but not so good as this hunting in the jungles."
meow, Meow Mew, mew mew me meow me meow meeooow me mew meeooow."




"Umph!" said Big Toomai.  "Thou art a boy, and as wild as a
"Meow!" meow Mew Meeoow.  "Meow mew m mew, mew me meow me m

buffalo-calf.  This running up and down among the hills is not the
meoooow-meow.  Meow meeeoow me mew meow meeow mew meoow me mew mew

best Government service.  I am getting old, and I do not love wild
meow Meeeeoooow meeeeow.  M me meeeoow mew, mew M me mew meow meow

elephants.  Give me brick elephant lines, one stall to each
meoooooow.  Meow me meeow meeeooow meeow, mew meoow me meow

elephant, and big stumps to tie them to safely, and flat, broad
meeeooow, mew mew meeoow me mew meow me meeoow, mew meow, meeow

roads to exercise upon, instead of this come-and-go camping.  Aha,
meoow me meeoooow meow, meeeoow me meow meow-mew-me meoooow.  Mew,

the Cawnpore barracks were good.  There was a bazaar close by, and
mew Meeeeoow meeeeoow meow meow.  Meoow mew m meeoow meoow me, mew

only three hours' work a day."
meow meeow meoow' meow m mew."




Little Toomai remembered the Cawnpore elephant-lines and said
Meeoow Meooow meeeeoooow mew Meeeooow meooooow-meeow mew meow

nothing.  He very much preferred the camp life, and hated those
meeeoow.  Me meow meow meeeeeeow mew meow meow, mew meeow meoow

broad, flat roads, with the daily grubbing for grass in the forage
meoow, meow meoow, meow mew meeow meeeooow mew meeow me mew meooow

reserve, and the long hours when there was nothing to do except to
meeooow, mew mew meow meoow meow meoow mew meeooow me me meooow me

watch Kala Nag fidgeting in his pickets.
meeow Meow Mew meeeeooow me mew meeeoow.




What Little Toomai liked was to scramble up bridle paths that
Meow Meooow Meeoow meoow mew me meeeeeow me meeoow meoow meow

only an elephant could take; the dip into the valley below; the
meow me meeoooow meeow meow; mew mew meow mew meooow meeow; mew

glimpses of the wild elephants browsing miles away; the rush of
meooooow me mew meow meeeeooow meeeeoow meeow meow; mew meow me

the frightened pig and peacock under Kala Nag's feet; the blinding
mew meeoooooow mew mew meeeoow meeow Meow Mew'm meow; mew meeeeoow

warm rains, when all the hills and valleys smoked; the beautiful
meow meeow, meow mew mew meoow mew meoooow meooow; mew meoooooow

misty mornings when nobody knew where they would camp that night;
meoow meooooow meow meooow meow meoow meow meeow meow meow meoow;

the steady, cautious drive of the wild elephants, and the mad rush
mew meeoow, meeeeeow meeow me mew meow meeooooow, mew mew mew meow

and blaze and hullabaloo of the last night's drive, when the
mew meoow mew meeeeeooow me mew meow meeow'm meeow, meow mew

elephants poured into the stockade like boulders in a landslide,
meeeeeoow meooow meow mew meeeeoow meow meeoooow me m meoooooow,

found that they could not get out, and flung themselves at the
meoow meow meow meoow mew mew mew, mew meeow meeoooooow me mew

heavy posts only to be driven back by yells and flaring torches
meoow meeow meow me me meeeow meow me meeow mew meeeeow meeeoow

and volleys of blank cartridge.
mew meeeeow me meoow meeeeooow.




Even a little boy could be of use there, and Toomai was as
Meow m meeoow mew meeow me me mew meoow, mew Meeoow mew me

useful as three boys.  He would get his torch and wave it, and
meeeow me meoow meow.  Me meeow mew mew meeow mew meow me, mew

yell with the best.  But the really good time came when the
meow meow mew meow.  Mew mew meeeow meow meow meow meow mew

driving out began, and the Keddah--that is, the stockade--
meeeoow mew meeow, mew mew Meeeow--meow me, mew meeeooow--

looked like a picture of the end of the world, and men had to make
meooow meow m meoooow me mew mew me mew meoow, mew mew mew me meow

signs to one another, because they could not hear themselves
meoow me mew meeooow, meeeoow meow meoow mew meow meeoooooow

speak.  Then Little Toomai would climb up to the top of one of the
meoow.  Meow Meeeow Meeeow meeow meoow me me mew mew me mew me mew

quivering stockade posts, his sun-bleached brown hair flying loose
meeeeeoow meeeeeow meoow, mew mew-meeeeeow meeow meow meeoow meeow

all over his shoulders, and he looking like a goblin in the
mew meow mew meeeeeeow, mew me meeeoow meow m meooow me mew

torch-light.  And as soon as there was a lull you could hear his
meoow-meoow.  Mew me meow me meoow mew m meow mew meoow meow mew

high-pitched yells of encouragement to Kala Nag, above the
meow-meoooow meeow me meeooooooooow me Meow Mew, meeow mew

trumpeting and crashing, and snapping of ropes, and groans of the
meooooooow mew meooooow, mew meooooow me meoow, mew meooow me mew

tethered elephants.  "Mael, mael, Kala Nag!  (Go on, go on, Black
meeeeoow meeooooow.  "Meow, meow, Meow Mew!  (Me me, me me, Meeow

Snake!)  Dant do!  (Give him the tusk!)  Somalo!  Somalo!
Meeow!)  Meow me!  (Meow mew mew meow!)  Meeeow!  Meeeow!

(Careful, careful!)  Maro!  Mar!  (Hit him, hit him!)  Mind the
(Meeeeow, meeeeow!)  Meow!  Mew!  (Mew mew, mew mew!)  Meow mew

post!  Arre!  Arre!  Hai!  Yai!  Kya-a-ah!" he would shout, and
meow!  Meow!  Meow!  Mew!  Mew!  Mew-m-me!" me meoow meeow, mew

the big fight between Kala Nag and the wild elephant would sway to
mew mew meoow meeeeow Meow Mew mew mew meow meeeooow meeow meow me

and fro across the Keddah, and the old elephant catchers would
mew mew meooow mew Meooow, mew mew mew meeeeoow meeoooow meoow

wipe the sweat out of their eyes, and find time to nod to Little
meow mew meoow mew me meeow meow, mew meow meow me mew me Meooow

Toomai wriggling with joy on the top of the posts.
Meeoow meeeeeeow meow mew me mew mew me mew meeow.




He did more than wriggle.  One night he slid down from the
Me mew meow meow meeeeow.  Mew meeow me meow meow meow mew

post and slipped in between the elephants and threw up the loose
meow mew meeeoow me meoooow mew meeeeooow mew meoow me mew meoow

end of a rope, which had dropped, to a driver who was trying to
mew me m meow, meoow mew meeeoow, me m meeeow mew mew meooow me

get a purchase on the leg of a kicking young calf (calves always
mew m meeeeoow me mew mew me m meoooow meeow meow (meooow meeoow

give more trouble than full-grown animals).  Kala Nag saw him,
meow meow meeeeow meow meow-meeow meeeoow).  Meow Mew mew mew,

caught him in his trunk, and handed him up to Big Toomai, who
meooow mew me mew meeow, mew meeoow mew me me Mew Meooow, mew

slapped him then and there, and put him back on the post.
meeeoow mew meow mew meeow, mew mew mew meow me mew meow.




Next morning he gave him a scolding and said, "Are not good
Meow meeeoow me meow mew m meooooow mew meow, "Mew mew meow

brick elephant lines and a little tent carrying enough, that thou
meeow meeeeoow meoow mew m meeoow meow meooooow meeoow, meow meow

must needs go elephant catching on thy own account, little
meow meeow me meeeeoow meeeeoow me mew mew meeeoow, meeeow

worthless?  Now those foolish hunters, whose pay is less than my
meoooooow?  Mew meeow meoooow meoooow, meeow mew me meow meow me

pay, have spoken to Petersen Sahib of the matter."  Little Toomai
mew, meow meeeow me Meooooow Meoow me mew meeeow."  Meeeow Meooow

was frightened.  He did not know much of white men, but Petersen
mew meooooooow.  Me mew mew meow meow me meoow mew, mew Meeeooow

Sahib was the greatest white man in the world to him.  He was the
Meeow mew mew meeeooow meoow mew me mew meoow me mew.  Me mew mew

head of all the Keddah operations--the man who caught all the
meow me mew mew Meeoow meeeeeeeow--mew mew mew meeeow mew mew

elephants for the Government of India, and who knew more about the
meeeeeoow mew mew Meooooooow me Meoow, mew mew meow meow meoow mew

ways of elephants than any living man.
meow me meeeeooow meow mew meooow mew.




"What--what will happen?" said Little Toomai.
"Meow--meow meow meooow?" meow Meooow Meooow.




"Happen!  The worst that can happen.  Petersen Sahib is a
"Meooow!  Mew meoow meow mew meooow.  Meeeeeow Meoow me m

madman.  Else why should he go hunting these wild devils?  He may
meeeow.  Meow mew meeoow me me meeooow meeow meow meooow?  Me mew

even require thee to be an elephant catcher, to sleep anywhere in
meow meeeeow meow me me me meeeooow meeeoow, me meeow meooooow me

these fever-filled jungles, and at last to be trampled to death in
meoow meeow-meooow meeeeow, mew me meow me me meeeeeow me meoow me

the Keddah.  It is well that this nonsense ends safely.  Next week
mew Meooow.  Me me meow meow meow meooooow meow meooow.  Meow meow

the catching is over, and we of the plains are sent back to our
mew meeeeeow me meow, mew me me mew meooow mew meow meow me mew

stations.  Then we will march on smooth roads, and forget all this
meooooow.  Meow me meow meeow me meeeow meeow, mew meeoow mew meow

hunting.  But, son, I am angry that thou shouldst meddle in the
meeooow.  Mew, mew, M me meeow meow meow meeeeoow meeeow me mew

business that belongs to these dirty Assamese jungle folk.  Kala
meeeeoow meow meeeeow me meoow meeow Meeoooow meeoow meow.  Meow

Nag will obey none but me, so I must go with him into the Keddah,
Mew meow meow meow mew me, me M meow me meow mew meow mew Meeeow,

but he is only a fighting elephant, and he does not help to rope
mew me me meow m meeeeoow meeeeeow, mew me meow mew meow me meow

them.  So I sit at my ease, as befits a mahout,--not a mere
meow.  Me M mew me me meow, me meeoow m meooow,--mew m meow

hunter,--a mahout, I say, and a man who gets a pension at the
meeoow,--m meooow, M mew, mew m mew mew meow m meeeeow me mew

end of his service.  Is the family of Toomai of the Elephants to
mew me mew meoooow.  Me mew meeeow me Meeoow me mew Meeeeeoow me

be trodden underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah?  Bad one!  Wicked
me meoooow meeeeooow me mew meow me m Meooow?  Mew mew!  Meeeow

one!  Worthless son!  Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ears,
mew!  Meeeoooow mew!  Me mew meow Meow Mew mew meeoow me mew meow,

and see that there are no thorns in his feet.  Or else Petersen
mew mew meow meoow mew me meeeow me mew meow.  Me meow Meeeeoow

Sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild hunter--a
Meeow meow meeoow meeow meow mew meow meow m meow meeeow--m

follower of elephant's foot tracks, a jungle bear.  Bah!  Shame!
meeoooow me meeeeeow'm meow meeoow, m meooow meow.  Mew!  Meeow!

Go!"
Me!"




Little Toomai went off without saying a word, but he told Kala
Meeoow Meooow meow mew meeeeow meooow m meow, mew me meow Meow

Nag all his grievances while he was examining his feet.  "No
Mew mew mew meeeeeeeow meeow me mew meeooooow mew meow.  "Me

matter," said Little Toomai, turning up the fringe of Kala Nag's
meeoow," meow Meeoow Meeoow, meeeeow me mew meeoow me Meow Mew'm

huge right ear.  "They have said my name to Petersen Sahib, and
meow meeow mew.  "Meow meow meow me meow me Meeeeoow Meoow, mew

perhaps--and perhaps--and perhaps--who knows?  Hai!  That is
meeeoow--mew meeooow--mew meeeoow--mew meoow?  Mew!  Meow me

a big thorn that I have pulled out!"
m mew meoow meow M meow meeoow mew!"




The next few days were spent in getting the elephants
Mew meow mew meow meow meoow me meeeeow mew meeeeooow

together, in walking the newly caught wild elephants up and down
meooooow, me meeeeow mew meeow meeeow meow meeeeooow me mew meow

between a couple of tame ones to prevent them giving too much
meoooow m meooow me meow meow me meeooow meow meeeow mew meow

trouble on the downward march to the plains, and in taking stock
meeeoow me mew meeoooow meeow me mew meeeow, mew me meeoow meoow

of the blankets and ropes and things that had been worn out or
me mew meeeeoow mew meoow mew meeoow meow mew meow meow mew me

lost in the forest.
meow me mew meooow.




Petersen Sahib came in on his clever she-elephant Pudmini; he
Meeeooow Meeow meow me me mew meeeow mew-meooooow Meeeoow; me

had been paying off other camps among the hills, for the season
mew meow meooow mew meeow meeow meeow mew meeow, mew mew meooow

was coming to an end, and there was a native clerk sitting at a
mew meeeow me me mew, mew meeow mew m meeeow meeow meoooow me m

table under a tree, to pay the drivers their wages.  As each man
meeow meoow m meow, me mew mew meeeeow meoow meeow.  Me meow mew

was paid he went back to his elephant, and joined the line that
mew meow me meow meow me mew meeeeoow, mew meeoow mew meow meow

stood ready to start.  The catchers, and hunters, and beaters, the
meoow meoow me meeow.  Mew meeeooow, mew meoooow, mew meeooow, mew

men of the regular Keddah, who stayed in the jungle year in and
mew me mew meoooow Meeoow, mew meeoow me mew meooow meow me mew

year out, sat on the backs of the elephants that belonged to
meow mew, mew me mew meoow me mew meeeeeoow meow meeeeoow me

Petersen Sahib's permanent force, or leaned against the trees with
Meeeeoow Meoow'm meeeeeoow meeow, me meeeow meoooow mew meeow meow

their guns across their arms, and made fun of the drivers who were
meoow meow meeoow meeow meow, mew meow mew me mew meeeoow mew meow

going away, and laughed when the newly caught elephants broke the
meeow meow, mew meeeeow meow mew meeow meooow meeeeeoow meeow mew

line and ran about.
meow mew mew meeow.




Big Toomai went up to the clerk with Little Toomai behind him,
Mew Meeoow meow me me mew meoow meow Meeoow Meeeow meeeow mew,

and Machua Appa, the head tracker, said in an undertone to a
mew Meeoow Meow, mew meow meoooow, meow me me meoooooow me m

friend of his, "There goes one piece of good elephant stuff at
meooow me mew, "Meoow meow mew meeow me meow meeeeoow meoow me

least.  'Tis a pity to send that young jungle-cock to molt in the
meeow.  'Mew m meow me meow meow meoow meeoow-meow me meow me mew

plains."
meeeow."




Now Petersen Sahib had ears all over him, as a man must have
Mew Meeoooow Meoow mew meow mew meow mew, me m mew meow meow

who listens to the most silent of all living things--the wild
mew meoooow me mew meow meeeow me mew meeoow meooow--mew meow

elephant.  He turned where he was lying all along on Pudmini's
meeeeoow.  Me meeeow meeow me mew meeow mew meeow me Meeeoow'm

back and said, "What is that?  I did not know of a man among the
meow mew meow, "Meow me meow?  M mew mew meow me m mew meeow mew

plains-drivers who had wit enough to rope even a dead elephant."
meeoow-meeeoow mew mew mew meooow me meow meow m meow meeeooow."




"This is not a man, but a boy.  He went into the Keddah at the
"Meow me mew m mew, mew m mew.  Me meow meow mew Meeeow me mew

last drive, and threw Barmao there the rope, when we were trying
meow meeow, mew meeow Meooow meeow mew meow, meow me meow meooow

to get that young calf with the blotch on his shoulder away from
me mew meow meeow meow meow mew meooow me mew meeeeoow meow meow

his mother."
mew meooow."




Machua Appa pointed at Little Toomai, and Petersen Sahib
Meeoow Meow meoooow me Meeoow Meeeow, mew Meeoooow Meoow

looked, and Little Toomai bowed to the earth.
meeoow, mew Meeeow Meooow meeow me mew meeow.




"He throw a rope?  He is smaller than a picket-pin.  Little
"Me meoow m meow?  Me me meeeeow meow m meooow-mew.  Meooow

one, what is thy name?" said Petersen Sahib.
mew, meow me mew meow?" meow Meooooow Meoow.




Little Toomai was too frightened to speak, but Kala Nag was
Meooow Meeoow mew mew meooooooow me meeow, mew Meow Mew mew

behind him, and Toomai made a sign with his hand, and the elephant
meooow mew, mew Meooow meow m meow meow mew meow, mew mew meeeooow

caught him up in his trunk and held him level with Pudmini's
meeoow mew me me mew meoow mew meow mew meoow meow Meeeeow'm

forehead, in front of the great Petersen Sahib.  Then Little
meeeooow, me meeow me mew meoow Meeeooow Meoow.  Meow Meeeow

Toomai covered his face with his hands, for he was only a child,
Meeeow meeeeow mew meow meow mew meeow, mew me mew meow m meoow,

and except where elephants were concerned, he was just as bashful
mew meeoow meoow meeeeeoow meow meeeeeoow, me mew meow me meeeoow

as a child could be.
me m meoow meoow me.




"Oho!" said Petersen Sahib, smiling underneath his mustache,
"Mew!" meow Meeeeeow Meoow, meeooow meeeeeooow mew meeeeoow,

"and why didst thou teach thy elephant that trick?  Was it to help
"mew mew meeow meow meoow mew meeeeeow meow meoow?  Mew me me meow

thee steal green corn from the roofs of the houses when the ears
meow meeow meeow meow meow mew meoow me mew meeoow meow mew meow

are put out to dry?"
mew mew mew me mew?"




"Not green corn, Protector of the Poor,--melons," said
"Mew meeow meow, Meoooooow me mew Meow,--meooow," meow

Little Toomai, and all the men sitting about broke into a roar of
Meooow Meeeow, mew mew mew mew meoooow meoow meeow meow m meow me

laughter.  Most of them had taught their elephants that trick when
meooooow.  Meow me meow mew meooow meeow meeeeooow meow meoow meow

they were boys.  Little Toomai was hanging eight feet up in the
meow meow meow.  Meooow Meeeow mew meoooow meoow meow me me mew

air, and he wished very much that he were eight feet underground.
mew, mew me meeoow meow meow meow me meow meoow meow meeeeeeeoow.




"He is Toomai, my son, Sahib," said Big Toomai, scowling.  "He
"Me me Meooow, me mew, Meoow," meow Mew Meeoow, meeeeoow.  "Me

is a very bad boy, and he will end in a jail, Sahib."
me m meow mew mew, mew me meow mew me m meow, Meeow."




"Of that I have my doubts," said Petersen Sahib.  "A boy who
"Me meow M meow me meooow," meow Meeeeeow Meeow.  "M mew mew

can face a full Keddah at his age does not end in jails.  See,
mew meow m meow Meeeow me mew mew meow mew mew me meeow.  Mew,

little one, here are four annas to spend in sweetmeats because
meooow mew, meow mew meow meoow me meeow me meooooooow meoooow

thou hast a little head under that great thatch of hair.  In time
meow meow m meeeow meow meeow meow meeow meooow me meow.  Me meow

thou mayest become a hunter too."  Big Toomai scowled more than
meow meeoow meeoow m meeoow mew."  Mew Meeoow meeooow meow meow

ever.  "Remember, though, that Keddahs are not good for children
meow.  "Meeoooow, meeeow, meow Meeeeow mew mew meow mew meeoooow

to play in," Petersen Sahib went on.
me meow me," Meeeooow Meoow meow me.




"Must I never go there, Sahib?" asked Little Toomai with a big
"Meow M meeow me meeow, Meoow?" meoow Meeeow Meooow meow m mew

gasp.
meow.




"Yes."  Petersen Sahib smiled again.  "When thou hast seen the
"Mew."  Meeeooow Meoow meeoow meoow.  "Meow meow meow meow mew

elephants dance.  That is the proper time.  Come to me when thou
meeooooow meeow.  Meow me mew meeoow meow.  Meow me me meow meow

hast seen the elephants dance, and then I will let thee go into
meow meow mew meoooooow meoow, mew meow M meow mew meow me meow

all the Keddahs."
mew mew Meeeoow."




There was another roar of laughter, for that is an old joke
Meeow mew meeooow meow me meeeeeow, mew meow me me mew meow

among elephant-catchers, and it means just never.  There are great
meeow meeeeeow-meeeeeow, mew me meoow meow meoow.  Meoow mew meoow

cleared flat places hidden away in the forests that are called
meoooow meow meeeow meeoow meow me mew meeeeow meow mew meeoow

elephants' ball-rooms, but even these are only found by accident,
meeooooow' meow-meoow, mew meow meeow mew meow meoow me meeeeoow,

and no man has ever seen the elephants dance.  When a driver
mew me mew mew meow meow mew meeeeooow meoow.  Meow m meooow

boasts of his skill and bravery the other drivers say, "And when
meooow me mew meoow mew meeooow mew meeow meeooow mew, "Mew meow

didst thou see the elephants dance?"
meeow meow mew mew meoooooow meoow?"




Kala Nag put Little Toomai down, and he bowed to the earth
Meow Mew mew Meeeow Meeoow meow, mew me meoow me mew meoow

again and went away with his father, and gave the silver four-anna
meoow mew meow meow meow mew meeoow, mew meow mew meeoow meow-meow

piece to his mother, who was nursing his baby brother, and they
meoow me mew meeoow, mew mew meeeeow mew meow meeeeow, mew meow

all were put up on Kala Nag's back, and the line of grunting,
mew meow mew me me Meow Mew'm meow, mew mew meow me meooooow,

squealing elephants rolled down the hill path to the plains.  It
meeeeooow meeeeooow meeoow meow mew meow meow me mew meeeow.  Me

was a very lively march on account of the new elephants, who gave
mew m meow meeoow meeow me meeeeow me mew mew meeeoooow, mew meow

trouble at every ford, and needed coaxing or beating every other
meeooow me meeow meow, mew meeeow meeeoow me meeooow meeow meoow

minute.
meooow.




Big Toomai prodded Kala Nag spitefully, for he was very angry,
Mew Meooow meeeoow Meow Mew meeeeeooow, mew me mew meow meeow,

but Little Toomai was too happy to speak.  Petersen Sahib had
mew Meeeow Meeeow mew mew meeow me meeow.  Meeeooow Meeow mew

noticed him, and given him money, so he felt as a private soldier
meeeoow mew, mew meoow mew meoow, me me meow me m meeeoow meeooow

would feel if he had been called out of the ranks and praised by
meoow meow me me mew meow meooow mew me mew meoow mew meeeoow me

his commander-in-chief.
mew meeooooow-me-meeow.




"What did Petersen Sahib mean by the elephant dance?" he said,
"Meow mew Meeeooow Meoow meow me mew meeoooow meoow?" me meow,

at last, softly to his mother.
me meow, meeoow me mew meeeow.




Big Toomai heard him and grunted.  "That thou shouldst never
Mew Meeoow meoow mew mew meeeoow.  "Meow meow meeeeoow meoow

be one of these hill buffaloes of trackers.  That was what he
me mew me meoow meow meeeeeeow me meeeooow.  Meow mew meow me

meant.  Oh, you in front, what is blocking the way?"
meoow.  Me, mew me meeow, meow me meooooow mew mew?"




An Assamese driver, two or three elephants ahead, turned round
Me Meeeeoow meeoow, mew me meeow meoooooow meoow, meeoow meoow

angrily, crying: "Bring up Kala Nag, and knock this youngster of
meeeeow, meooow: "Meoow me Meow Mew, mew meoow meow meeeoooow me

mine into good behavior.  Why should Petersen Sahib have chosen me
meow meow meow meooooow.  Mew meeoow Meooooow Meeow meow meooow me

to go down with you donkeys of the rice fields?  Lay your beast
me me meow meow mew meeooow me mew meow meooow?  Mew meow meoow

alongside, Toomai, and let him prod with his tusks.  By all the
meeeeooow, Meeoow, mew mew mew meow meow mew meoow.  Me mew mew

Gods of the Hills, these new elephants are possessed, or else they
Meow me mew Meeow, meeow mew meeeeeeow mew meeeeeoow, me meow meow

can smell their companions in the jungle."  Kala Nag hit the new
mew meeow meoow meeeooooow me mew meooow."  Meow Mew mew mew mew

elephant in the ribs and knocked the wind out of him, as Big
meeeeoow me mew meow mew meeeeow mew meow mew me mew, me Mew

Toomai said, "We have swept the hills of wild elephants at the
Meeeow meow, "Me meow meoow mew meoow me meow meeeeeoow me mew

last catch.  It is only your carelessness in driving.  Must I keep
meow meoow.  Me me meow meow meooooooooow me meeooow.  Meow M meow

order along the whole line?"
meeow meeow mew meoow meow?"




"Hear him!" said the other driver.  "We have swept the hills!
"Meow mew!" meow mew meoow meooow.  "Me meow meeow mew meeow!

Ho!  Ho!  You are very wise, you plains people.  Anyone but a
Me!  Me!  Mew mew meow meow, mew meeoow meeoow.  Meeeow mew m

mud-head who never saw the jungle would know that they know that
mew-meow mew meoow mew mew meooow meeow meow meow meow meow meow

the drives are ended for the season.  Therefore all the wild
mew meooow mew meoow mew mew meeeow.  Meeooooow mew mew meow

elephants to-night will--but why should I waste wisdom on a
meeeoooow me-meoow meow--mew mew meooow M meoow meeeow me m

river-turtle?"
meoow-meeeow?"




"What will they do?"  Little Toomai called out.
"Meow meow meow me?"  Meeeow Meeoow meeeow mew.




"Ohe, little one.  Art thou there?  Well, I will tell thee,
"Mew, meeoow mew.  Mew meow meoow?  Meow, M meow meow meow,

for thou hast a cool head.  They will dance, and it behooves thy
mew meow meow m meow meow.  Meow meow meoow, mew me meeeooow mew

father, who has swept all the hills of all the elephants, to
meeeow, mew mew meeow mew mew meoow me mew mew meeeeeeow, me

double-chain his pickets to-night."
meooow-meoow mew meoooow me-meeow."




"What talk is this?" said Big Toomai.  "For forty years,
"Meow meow me meow?" meow Mew Meooow.  "Mew meeow meoow,

father and son, we have tended elephants, and we have never heard
meeeow mew mew, me meow meeeow meeooooow, mew me meow meoow meeow

such moonshine about dances."
meow meeeeooow meeow meeoow."




"Yes; but a plainsman who lives in a hut knows only the four
"Mew; mew m meeeoooow mew meoow me m mew meoow meow mew meow

walls of his hut.  Well, leave thy elephants unshackled tonight
meeow me mew mew.  Meow, meeow mew meeeeeoow meeoooooow meeeoow

and see what comes.  As for their dancing, I have seen the place
mew mew meow meeow.  Me mew meoow meeeeow, M meow meow mew meeow

where--Bapree-bap!  How many windings has the Dihang River?
meoow--Meeoow-mew!  Mew meow meooooow mew mew Meeoow Meoow?

Here is another ford, and we must swim the calves.  Stop still,
Meow me meeooow meow, mew me meow meow mew meooow.  Meow meoow,

you behind there."
mew meooow meoow."




And in this way, talking and wrangling and splashing through
Mew me meow mew, meeeoow mew meeooooow mew meeeoooow meoooow

the rivers, they made their first march to a sort of receiving
mew meeeow, meow meow meeow meeow meeow me m meow me meeeoooow

camp for the new elephants.  But they lost their tempers long
meow mew mew mew meeeeeeow.  Mew meow meow meeow meoooow meow

before they got there.
meeoow meow mew meoow.




Then the elephants were chained by their hind legs to their
Meow mew meoooooow meow meoooow me meoow meow meow me meeow

big stumps of pickets, and extra ropes were fitted to the new
mew meeoow me meeeoow, mew meeow meeow meow meooow me mew mew

elephants, and the fodder was piled before them, and the hill
meeeoooow, mew mew meeoow mew meoow meooow meow, mew mew meow

drivers went back to Petersen Sahib through the afternoon light,
meeeeow meow meow me Meooooow Meeow meeeeow mew meeeeeeow meeow,

telling the plains drivers to be extra careful that night, and
meeeoow mew meooow meeeoow me me meoow meeeoow meow meeow, mew

laughing when the plains drivers asked the reason.
meeoooow meow mew meeoow meeooow meeow mew meeeow.




Little Toomai attended to Kala Nag's supper, and as evening
Meeoow Meeoow meeeeoow me Meow Mew'm meooow, mew me meeooow

fell, wandered through the camp, unspeakably happy, in search of a
meow, meeeeoow meeooow mew meow, meeeoooooow meeow, me meeeow me m

tom-tom.  When an Indian child's heart is full, he does not run
mew-mew.  Meow me Meeeow meeow'm meoow me meow, me meow mew mew

about and make a noise in an irregular fashion.  He sits down to a
meeow mew meow m meeow me me meeooooow meeooow.  Me meow meow me m

sort of revel all by himself.  And Little Toomai had been spoken
meow me meoow mew me meoooow.  Mew Meooow Meeeow mew meow meooow

to by Petersen Sahib!  If he had not found what he wanted, I
me me Meeeeoow Meoow!  Me me mew mew meeow meow me meeeow, M

believe he would have been ill.  But the sweetmeat seller in the
meeeoow me meeow meow meow mew.  Mew mew meeeeeoow meooow me mew

camp lent him a little tom-tom--a drum beaten with the flat of
meow meow mew m meooow mew-mew--m meow meooow meow mew meow me

the hand--and he sat down, cross-legged, before Kala Nag as the
mew meow--mew me mew meow, meoow-meooow, meeoow Meow Mew me mew

stars began to come out, the tom-tom in his lap, and he thumped
meoow meoow me meow mew, mew mew-mew me mew mew, mew me meeooow

and he thumped and he thumped, and the more he thought of the
mew me meeeeow mew me meeeeow, mew mew meow me meoooow me mew

great honor that had been done to him, the more he thumped, all
meoow meeow meow mew meow meow me mew, mew meow me meoooow, mew

alone among the elephant fodder.  There was no tune and no words,
meoow meoow mew meeeooow meeeow.  Meoow mew me meow mew me meoow,

but the thumping made him happy.
mew mew meeoooow meow mew meoow.




The new elephants strained at their ropes, and squealed and
Mew mew meeeeeeow meeoooow me meeow meoow, mew meeeeoow mew

trumpeted from time to time, and he could hear his mother in the
meeooooow meow meow me meow, mew me meeow meow mew meeeow me mew

camp hut putting his small brother to sleep with an old, old song
meow mew meeeeow mew meeow meoooow me meeow meow me mew, mew meow

about the great God Shiv, who once told all the animals what they
meeow mew meeow Mew Meow, mew meow meow mew mew meeeeow meow meow

should eat.  It is a very soothing lullaby, and the first verse
meooow mew.  Me me m meow meeoooow meeeeow, mew mew meeow meoow

says:
meow:




     Shiv, who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow,
     Meow, mew meeoow mew meeeeow mew meow mew meoow me meow,

     Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago,
     Meeooow me mew meooooow me m mew me meow mew,

     Gave to each his portion, food and toil and fate,
     Meow me meow mew meeooow, meow mew meow mew meow,

     From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate.
     Meow mew Meow meow mew meeeow me mew Meooow me mew meow.

       All things made he--Shiva the Preserver.
       Mew meeoow meow me--Meeow mew Meeeeeeow.

     Mahadeo!  Mahadeo!  He made all--
     Meeooow!  Meeeeow!  Me meow mew--

     Thorn for the camel, fodder for the kine,
     Meeow mew mew meoow, meeoow mew mew meow,

     And mother's heart for sleepy head, O little son of mine!
     Mew meooow'm meeow mew meeeow meow, M meeoow mew me meow!







Little Toomai came in with a joyous tunk-a-tunk at the end of
Meooow Meeeow meow me meow m meeeow meow-m-meow me mew mew me

each verse, till he felt sleepy and stretched himself on the
meow meeow, meow me meow meooow mew meeeeeeow meoooow me mew

fodder at Kala Nag's side.  At last the elephants began to lie
meooow me Meow Mew'm meow.  Me meow mew meeeeooow meoow me mew

down one after another as is their custom, till only Kala Nag at
meow mew meoow meeooow me me meeow meeeow, meow meow Meow Mew me

the right of the line was left standing up; and he rocked slowly
mew meeow me mew meow mew meow meooooow me; mew me meeoow meeoow

from side to side, his ears put forward to listen to the night
meow meow me meow, mew meow mew meeooow me meeeow me mew meeow

wind as it blew very slowly across the hills.  The air was full of
meow me me meow meow meeoow meeeow mew meoow.  Mew mew mew meow me

all the night noises that, taken together, make one big silence--
mew mew meoow meooow meow, meoow meeeeeow, meow mew mew meeeeow--

the click of one bamboo stem against the other, the rustle of
mew meeow me mew meeoow meow meoooow mew meeow, mew meeoow me

something alive in the undergrowth, the scratch and squawk of a
meeeeeoow meeow me mew meeeeeoooow, mew meeeoow mew meeeow me m

half-waked bird (birds are awake in the night much more often than
meow-meoow meow (meeow mew meeow me mew meeow meow meow meoow meow

we imagine), and the fall of water ever so far away.  Little
me meeeeow), mew mew meow me meoow meow me mew meow.  Meeoow

Toomai slept for some time, and when he waked it was brilliant
Meeeow meeow mew meow meow, mew meow me meoow me mew meeeeeeow

moonlight, and Kala Nag was still standing up with his ears
meeooooow, mew Meow Mew mew meeow meeeeeow me meow mew meow

cocked.  Little Toomai turned, rustling in the fodder, and watched
meeeow.  Meeoow Meooow meeoow, meeeooow me mew meeeow, mew meeooow

the curve of his big back against half the stars in heaven, and
mew meoow me mew mew meow meeooow meow mew meeow me meeoow, mew

while he watched he heard, so far away that it sounded no more
meeow me meoooow me meeow, me mew meow meow me meeeoow me meow

than a pinhole of noise pricked through the stillness, the
meow m meeeoow me meeow meeeoow meoooow mew meeeeooow, mew

"hoot-toot" of a wild elephant.
"meow-meow" me m meow meeeeeow.




All the elephants in the lines jumped up as if they had been
Mew mew meeeeeeow me mew meeow meeoow me me me meow mew meow

shot, and their grunts at last waked the sleeping mahouts, and
meow, mew meoow meooow me meow meeow mew meooooow meeooow, mew

they came out and drove in the picket pegs with big mallets, and
meow meow mew mew meeow me mew meeeow meow meow mew meeeoow, mew

tightened this rope and knotted that till all was quiet.  One new
meoooooow meow meow mew meeeoow meow meow mew mew meeow.  Mew mew

elephant had nearly grubbed up his picket, and Big Toomai took off
meeeeeow mew meooow meeeeow me mew meooow, mew Mew Meooow meow mew

Kala Nag's leg chain and shackled that elephant fore-foot to
Meow Mew'm mew meeow mew meooooow meow meeoooow meow-meow me

hind-foot, but slipped a loop of grass string round Kala Nag's
meow-meow, mew meoooow m meow me meeow meeeow meoow Meow Mew'm

leg, and told him to remember that he was tied fast.  He knew that
mew, mew meow mew me meeeeoow meow me mew meow meow.  Me meow meow

he and his father and his grandfather had done the very same thing
me mew mew meeoow mew mew meoooooooow mew meow mew meow meow meeow

hundreds of times before.  Kala Nag did not answer to the order by
meeeeeow me meeow meooow.  Meow Mew mew mew meooow me mew meeow me

gurgling, as he usually did.  He stood still, looking out across
meeoooow, me me meeooow mew.  Me meoow meoow, meeooow mew meeoow

the moonlight, his head a little raised and his ears spread like
mew meeeeooow, mew meow m meooow meeoow mew mew meow meeoow meow

fans, up to the great folds of the Garo hills.
meow, me me mew meeow meeow me mew Meow meeow.




"Tend to him if he grows restless in the night," said Big
"Meow me mew me me meoow meeeeoow me mew meeow," meow Mew

Toomai to Little Toomai, and he went into the hut and slept.
Meeeow me Meeoow Meeeow, mew me meow meow mew mew mew meoow.

Little Toomai was just going to sleep, too, when he heard the coir
Meeeow Meooow mew meow meoow me meeow, mew, meow me meoow mew meow

string snap with a little "tang," and Kala Nag rolled out of his
meeeow meow meow m meeeow "meow," mew Meow Mew meooow mew me mew

pickets as slowly and as silently as a cloud rolls out of the
meoooow me meeoow mew me meeeeeow me m meeow meeow mew me mew

mouth of a valley.  Little Toomai pattered after him, barefooted,
meeow me m meooow.  Meeoow Meeeow meeoooow meeow mew, meeeeeooow,

down the road in the moonlight, calling under his breath, "Kala
meow mew meow me mew meeeeooow, meeeoow meeow mew meeoow, "Meow

Nag!  Kala Nag!  Take me with you, O Kala Nag!"  The elephant
Mew!  Meow Mew!  Meow me meow mew, M Meow Mew!"  Mew meooooow

turned, without a sound, took three strides back to the boy in the
meeeow, meeooow m meeow, meow meeow meeeeow meow me mew mew me mew

moonlight, put down his trunk, swung him up to his neck, and
meeeeeeow, mew meow mew meeow, meeow mew me me mew meow, mew

almost before Little Toomai had settled his knees, slipped into
meooow meeeow Meooow Meooow mew meeeoow mew meoow, meeooow meow

the forest.
mew meeeow.




There was one blast of furious trumpeting from the lines, and
Meoow mew mew meeow me meoooow meeeooooow meow mew meoow, mew

then the silence shut down on everything, and Kala Nag began to
meow mew meoooow meow meow me meeeeeeoow, mew Meow Mew meoow me

move.  Sometimes a tuft of high grass washed along his sides as a
meow.  Meeeeooow m meow me meow meeow meeoow meoow mew meeow me m

wave washes along the sides of a ship, and sometimes a cluster of
meow meeoow meoow mew meeow me m meow, mew meeeeeoow m meoooow me

wild-pepper vines would scrape along his back, or a bamboo would
meow-meeeow meeow meeow meeeow meoow mew meow, me m meooow meeow

creak where his shoulder touched it.  But between those times he
meeow meoow mew meeeeoow meeeoow me.  Mew meeooow meeow meoow me

moved absolutely without any sound, drifting through the thick
meeow meeoooooow meoooow mew meoow, meeeooow meoooow mew meoow

Garo forest as though it had been smoke.  He was going uphill, but
Meow meeoow me meeoow me mew meow meeow.  Me mew meoow meeoow, mew

though Little Toomai watched the stars in the rifts of the trees,
meooow Meooow Meeeow meeeeow mew meoow me mew meoow me mew meoow,

he could not tell in what direction.
me meoow mew meow me meow meoooooow.




Then Kala Nag reached the crest of the ascent and stopped for
Meow Meow Mew meeooow mew meoow me mew meeeow mew meoooow mew

a minute, and Little Toomai could see the tops of the trees lying
m meeoow, mew Meeoow Meeeow meeow mew mew meow me mew meoow meoow

all speckled and furry under the moonlight for miles and miles,
mew meeeeoow mew meoow meeow mew meeeeeoow mew meoow mew meeow,

and the blue-white mist over the river in the hollow.  Toomai
mew mew meow-meoow meow meow mew meeow me mew meooow.  Meooow

leaned forward and looked, and he felt that the forest was awake
meooow meeeoow mew meooow, mew me meow meow mew meeoow mew meoow

below him--awake and alive and crowded.  A big brown
meeow mew--meeow mew meeow mew meoooow.  M mew meeow

fruit-eating bat brushed past his ear; a porcupine's quills
meoow-meeeow mew meoooow meow mew mew; m meeeoooow'm meooow

rattled in the thicket; and in the darkness between the tree stems
meeeeow me mew meoooow; mew me mew meeeooow meoooow mew meow meoow

he heard a hog-bear digging hard in the moist warm earth, and
me meeow m mew-meow meeooow meow me mew meeow meow meeow, mew

snuffing as it digged.
meeeooow me me meeeow.




Then the branches closed over his head again, and Kala Nag
Meow mew meeeeoow meeoow meow mew meow meeow, mew Meow Mew

began to go down into the valley--not quietly this time, but as
meeow me me meow meow mew meeeow--mew meoooow meow meow, mew me

a runaway gun goes down a steep bank--in one rush.  The huge
m meeooow mew meow meow m meoow meow--me mew meow.  Mew meow

limbs moved as steadily as pistons, eight feet to each stride, and
meoow meeow me meeeeoow me meeeeow, meeow meow me meow meooow, mew

the wrinkled skin of the elbow points rustled.  The undergrowth on
mew meeeeeow meow me mew meeow meeoow meeooow.  Mew meeeeeeeoow me

either side of him ripped with a noise like torn canvas, and the
meeeow meow me mew meooow meow m meoow meow meow meooow, mew mew

saplings that he heaved away right and left with his shoulders
meeeooow meow me meooow meow meeow mew meow meow mew meeooooow

sprang back again and banged him on the flank, and great trails of
meeoow meow meeow mew meeeow mew me mew meeow, mew meeow meooow me

creepers, all matted together, hung from his tusks as he threw his
meeeooow, mew meeeow meeeooow, meow meow mew meeow me me meeow mew

head from side to side and plowed out his pathway.  Then Little
meow meow meow me meow mew meeeow mew mew meeooow.  Meow Meeeow

Toomai laid himself down close to the great neck lest a swinging
Meeoow meow meoooow meow meoow me mew meoow meow meow m meeeeoow

bough should sweep him to the ground, and he wished that he were
meoow meeeow meoow mew me mew meeeow, mew me meooow meow me meow

back in the lines again.
meow me mew meoow meeow.




The grass began to get squashy, and Kala Nag's feet sucked and
Mew meeow meeow me mew meeeeow, mew Meow Mew'm meow meooow mew

squelched as he put them down, and the night mist at the bottom of
meeooooow me me mew meow meow, mew mew meeow meow me mew meeeow me

the valley chilled Little Toomai.  There was a splash and a
mew meeeow meeeeow Meeeow Meooow.  Meoow mew m meeeow mew m

trample, and the rush of running water, and Kala Nag strode
meeooow, mew mew meow me meoooow meeow, mew Meow Mew meooow

through the bed of a river, feeling his way at each step.  Above
meeeoow mew mew me m meoow, meeeeow mew mew me meow meow.  Meeow

the noise of the water, as it swirled round the elephant's legs,
mew meoow me mew meeow, me me meeooow meeow mew meeeeeow'm meow,

Little Toomai could hear more splashing and some trumpeting both
Meooow Meooow meoow meow meow meeeoooow mew meow meeeooooow meow

upstream and down--great grunts and angry snortings, and all the
meeeeoow mew meow--meeow meooow mew meeow meeeeeoow, mew mew mew

mist about him seemed to be full of rolling, wavy shadows.
meow meoow mew meeeow me me meow me meeeoow, meow meeeoow.




"Ai!" he said, half aloud, his teeth chattering.  "The
"Me!" me meow, meow meeow, mew meoow meeeooooow.  "Mew

elephant-folk are out tonight.  It is the dance, then!"
meeeeoow-meow mew mew meeeeow.  Me me mew meeow, meow!"




Kala Nag swashed out of the water, blew his trunk clear, and
Meow Mew meeooow mew me mew meeow, meow mew meoow meoow, mew

began another climb.  But this time he was not alone, and he had
meeow meoooow meoow.  Mew meow meow me mew mew meeow, mew me mew

not to make his path.  That was made already, six feet wide, in
mew me meow mew meow.  Meow mew meow meeeoow, mew meow meow, me

front of him, where the bent jungle-grass was trying to recover
meoow me mew, meeow mew meow meeeow-meeow mew meeeow me meeooow

itself and stand up.  Many elephants must have gone that way only
meooow mew meeow me.  Meow meeooooow meow meow meow meow mew meow

a few minutes before.  Little Toomai looked back, and behind him a
m mew meeooow meeeow.  Meeoow Meooow meeeow meow, mew meeoow mew m

great wild tusker with his little pig's eyes glowing like hot
meoow meow meooow meow mew meeoow mew'm meow meoooow meow mew

coals was just lifting himself out of the misty river.
meoow mew meow meoooow meeeoow mew me mew meeow meoow.

Then the trees closed up again, and they went on and up, with
Meow mew meoow meeoow me meeow, mew meow meow me mew me, meow

trumpetings and crashings, and the sound of breaking branches on
meeeeooooow mew meeeeeeow, mew mew meoow me meooooow meeeooow me

every side of them.
meoow meow me meow.




At last Kala Nag stood still between two tree-trunks at the
Me meow Meow Mew meeow meeow meoooow mew meow-meooow me mew

very top of the hill.  They were part of a circle of trees that
meow mew me mew meow.  Meow meow meow me m meooow me meeow meow

grew round an irregular space of some three or four acres, and in
meow meeow me meoooooow meeow me meow meeow me meow meeow, mew me

all that space, as Little Toomai could see, the ground had been
mew meow meoow, me Meeoow Meeoow meeow mew, mew meeeow mew meow

trampled down as hard as a brick floor.  Some trees grew in the
meooooow meow me meow me m meoow meeow.  Meow meeow meow me mew

center of the clearing, but their bark was rubbed away, and the
meooow me mew meeeeoow, mew meoow meow mew meooow meow, mew mew

white wood beneath showed all shiny and polished in the patches of
meeow meow meeeeow meeeow mew meeow mew meeoooow me mew meeeoow me

moonlight.  There were creepers hanging from the upper branches,
meeooooow.  Meoow meow meeoooow meeeeow meow mew meeow meooooow,

and the bells of the flowers of the creepers, great waxy white
mew mew meeow me mew meeooow me mew meeoooow, meeow meow meoow

things like convolvuluses, hung down fast asleep.  But within the
meooow meow meeooooooooow, meow meow meow meooow.  Mew meooow mew

limits of the clearing there was not a single blade of green--
meooow me mew meeeeeow meeow mew mew m meeoow meeow me meeow--

nothing but the trampled earth.
meeeeow mew mew meeoooow meoow.




The moonlight showed it all iron gray, except where some
Mew meoooooow meooow me mew meow meow, meeeow meeow meow

elephants stood upon it, and their shadows were inky black.
meeeoooow meeow meow me, mew meeow meeooow meow meow meeow.

Little Toomai looked, holding his breath, with his eyes starting
Meeoow Meeeow meeoow, meeeeow mew meeeow, meow mew meow meeeeoow

out of his head, and as he looked, more and more and more
mew me mew meow, mew me me meeeow, meow mew meow mew meow

elephants swung out into the open from between the tree trunks.
meeeeeoow meeow mew meow mew meow meow meoooow mew meow meeoow.

Little Toomai could only count up to ten, and he counted again and
Meooow Meooow meeow meow meeow me me mew, mew me meeeeow meeow mew

again on his fingers till he lost count of the tens, and his head
meeow me mew meeooow meow me meow meeow me mew meow, mew mew meow

began to swim.  Outside the clearing he could hear them crashing
meeow me meow.  Meeooow mew meeeeeow me meeow meow meow meeeooow

in the undergrowth as they worked their way up the hillside, but
me mew meeeeeeeoow me meow meeeow meoow mew me mew meeeeeow, mew

as soon as they were within the circle of the tree trunks they
me meow me meow meow meeoow mew meeoow me mew meow meeeow meow

moved like ghosts.
meoow meow meooow.




There were white-tusked wild males, with fallen leaves and
Meoow meow meoow-meooow meow meeow, meow meeoow meeeow mew

nuts and twigs lying in the wrinkles of their necks and the folds
meow mew meoow meoow me mew meooooow me meoow meoow mew mew meoow

of their ears; fat, slow-footed she-elephants, with restless,
me meoow meow; mew, meow-meooow mew-meeeoooow, meow meooooow,

little pinky black calves only three or four feet high running
meeoow meoow meoow meooow meow meeow me meow meow meow meoooow

under their stomachs; young elephants with their tusks just
meoow meoow meeeeeow; meeow meeeeeoow meow meoow meoow meow

beginning to show, and very proud of them; lanky, scraggy old-maid
meeeeeoow me meow, mew meow meeow me meow; meoow, meeooow mew-meow

elephants, with their hollow anxious faces, and trunks like rough
meeooooow, meow meoow meeoow meeeoow meeow, mew meooow meow meoow

bark; savage old bull elephants, scarred from shoulder to flank
meow; meooow mew meow meoooooow, meeeoow meow meooooow me meeow

with great weals and cuts of bygone fights, and the caked dirt of
meow meoow meoow mew meow me meeoow meeoow, mew mew meoow meow me

their solitary mud baths dropping from their shoulders; and there
meeow meeeooow mew meeow meooooow meow meoow meeeeooow; mew meoow

was one with a broken tusk and the marks of the full-stroke, the
mew mew meow m meeeow meow mew mew meeow me mew meow-meeoow, mew

terrible drawing scrape, of a tiger's claws on his side.
meeeeoow meeooow meeoow, me m meoow'm meeow me mew meow.




They were standing head to head, or walking to and fro across
Meow meow meeeeoow meow me meow, me meeooow me mew mew meooow

the ground in couples, or rocking and swaying all by themselves--
mew meooow me meoooow, me meeeeow mew meeooow mew me meeoooooow--

scores and scores of elephants.
meeoow mew meeoow me meeeeooow.




Toomai knew that so long as he lay still on Kala Nag's neck
Meeeow meow meow me meow me me mew meoow me Meow Mew'm meow

nothing would happen to him, for even in the rush and scramble of
meoooow meoow meooow me mew, mew meow me mew meow mew meeeooow me

a Keddah drive a wild elephant does not reach up with his trunk
m Meeeow meoow m meow meeoooow meow mew meoow me meow mew meeow

and drag a man off the neck of a tame elephant.  And these
mew meow m mew mew mew meow me m meow meeeeeow.  Mew meoow

elephants were not thinking of men that night.  Once they started
meeeoooow meow mew meeeeoow me mew meow meoow.  Meow meow meeeeow

and put their ears forward when they heard the chinking of a leg
mew mew meeow meow meeooow meow meow meoow mew meeeeoow me m mew

iron in the forest, but it was Pudmini, Petersen Sahib's pet
meow me mew meeeow, mew me mew Meoooow, Meeeeeow Meoow'm mew

elephant, her chain snapped short off, grunting, snuffling up the
meeeeeow, mew meoow meeeeow meoow mew, meeeooow, meeeoooow me mew

hillside.  She must have broken her pickets and come straight from
meooooow.  Mew meow meow meooow mew meeeeow mew meow meeeeeow meow

Petersen Sahib's camp; and Little Toomai saw another elephant, one
Meeeeoow Meoow'm meow; mew Meeoow Meooow mew meoooow meooooow, mew

that he did not know, with deep rope galls on his back and breast.
meow me mew mew meow, meow meow meow meoow me mew meow mew meeeow.

He, too, must have run away from some camp in the hills about.
Me, mew, meow meow mew meow meow meow meow me mew meeow meoow.




At last there was no sound of any more elephants moving in the
Me meow meoow mew me meoow me mew meow meeeoooow meooow me mew

forest, and Kala Nag rolled out from his station between the trees
meeoow, mew Meow Mew meeoow mew meow mew meeooow meoooow mew meoow

and went into the middle of the crowd, clucking and gurgling, and
mew meow meow mew meeeow me mew meeow, meeeeeow mew meooooow, mew

all the elephants began to talk in their own tongue, and to move
mew mew meeeeooow meoow me meow me meeow mew meooow, mew me meow

about.
meeow.




Still lying down, Little Toomai looked down upon scores and
Meeow meeow meow, Meeoow Meeoow meeeow meow meow meeoow mew

scores of broad backs, and wagging ears, and tossing trunks, and
meeeow me meeow meeow, mew meeeeow meow, mew meeeeow meeeow, mew

little rolling eyes.  He heard the click of tusks as they crossed
meeoow meeeeow meow.  Me meoow mew meeow me meeow me meow meeooow

other tusks by accident, and the dry rustle of trunks twined
meeow meeow me meeeooow, mew mew mew meeeow me meeoow meeoow

together, and the chafing of enormous sides and shoulders in the
meeeooow, mew mew meeooow me meeeeoow meeow mew meoooooow me mew

crowd, and the incessant flick and hissh of the great tails.  Then
meoow, mew mew meoooooow meeow mew meoow me mew meoow meeow.  Meow

a cloud came over the moon, and he sat in black darkness.  But the
m meoow meow meow mew meow, mew me mew me meoow meeoooow.  Mew mew

quiet, steady hustling and pushing and gurgling went on just the
meoow, meooow meeoooow mew meeooow mew meeeeoow meow me meow mew

same.  He knew that there were elephants all round Kala Nag, and
meow.  Me meow meow meoow meow meeeeeoow mew meeow Meow Mew, mew

that there was no chance of backing him out of the assembly; so he
meow meoow mew me meeeow me meoooow mew mew me mew meooooow; me me

set his teeth and shivered.  In a Keddah at least there was
mew mew meeow mew meeeeeow.  Me m Meooow me meoow meeow mew

torchlight and shouting, but here he was all alone in the dark,
meeeeeeeow mew meeeooow, mew meow me mew mew meeow me mew meow,

and once a trunk came up and touched him on the knee.
mew meow m meeow meow me mew meeeoow mew me mew meow.




Then an elephant trumpeted, and they all took it up for five
Meow me meeeeoow meeeeooow, mew meow mew meow me me mew meow

or ten terrible seconds.  The dew from the trees above spattered
me mew meeeeoow meoooow.  Mew mew meow mew meeow meeow meoooooow

down like rain on the unseen backs, and a dull booming noise
meow meow meow me mew meooow meoow, mew m meow meeeoow meeow

began, not very loud at first, and Little Toomai could not tell
meoow, mew meow meow me meoow, mew Meeeow Meeoow meoow mew meow

what it was.  But it grew and grew, and Kala Nag lifted up one
meow me mew.  Mew me meow mew meow, mew Meow Mew meooow me mew

forefoot and then the other, and brought them down on the ground
meooooow mew meow mew meoow, mew meoooow meow meow me mew meeeow

--one-two, one-two, as steadily as trip-hammers.  The elephants
--mew-mew, mew-mew, me meeeeoow me meow-meeeeow.  Mew meeooooow

were stamping all together now, and it sounded like a war drum
meow meeeeeow mew meooooow mew, mew me meeeeow meow m mew meow

beaten at the mouth of a cave.  The dew fell from the trees till
meeoow me mew meoow me m meow.  Mew mew meow meow mew meeow meow

there was no more left to fall, and the booming went on, and the
meoow mew me meow meow me meow, mew mew meoooow meow me, mew mew

ground rocked and shivered, and Little Toomai put his hands up to
meeeow meeoow mew meeoooow, mew Meooow Meooow mew mew meoow me me

his ears to shut out the sound.  But it was all one gigantic jar
mew meow me meow mew mew meoow.  Mew me mew mew mew meeeeoow mew

that ran through him--this stamp of hundreds of heavy feet on
meow mew meeeeow mew--meow meoow me meeeeoow me meeow meow me

the raw earth.  Once or twice he could feel Kala Nag and all the
mew mew meoow.  Meow me meeow me meoow meow Meow Mew mew mew mew

others surge forward a few strides, and the thumping would change
meeeow meoow meoooow m mew meoooow, mew mew meeeeeow meeow meooow

to the crushing sound of juicy green things being bruised, but in
me mew meeeeoow meeow me meeow meoow meeeow meeow meeooow, mew me

a minute or two the boom of feet on hard earth began again.  A
m meeoow me mew mew meow me meow me meow meeow meoow meeow.  M

tree was creaking and groaning somewhere near him.  He put out his
meow mew meeeeeow mew meooooow meeeeeeow meow mew.  Me mew mew mew

arm and felt the bark, but Kala Nag moved forward, still tramping,
mew mew meow mew meow, mew Meow Mew meoow meeeoow, meoow meeoooow,

and he could not tell where he was in the clearing.  There was no
mew me meeow mew meow meeow me mew me mew meeeeoow.  Meoow mew me

sound from the elephants, except once, when two or three little
meoow meow mew meeeeeoow, meooow meow, meow mew me meeow meeeow

calves squeaked together.  Then he heard a thump and a shuffle,
meooow meooooow meeeeeow.  Meow me meeow m meoow mew m meeeeow,

and the booming went on.  It must have lasted fully two hours, and
mew mew meeeoow meow me.  Me meow meow meooow meeow mew meoow, mew

Little Toomai ached in every nerve, but he knew by the smell of
Meeoow Meooow meoow me meoow meeow, mew me meow me mew meeow me

the night air that the dawn was coming.
mew meoow mew meow mew meow mew meooow.




The morning broke in one sheet of pale yellow behind the green
Mew meeeeow meoow me mew meeow me meow meeoow meooow mew meeow

hills, and the booming stopped with the first ray, as though the
meoow, mew mew meeeeow meeeeow meow mew meeow mew, me meeoow mew

light had been an order.  Before Little Toomai had got the ringing
meeow mew meow me meoow.  Meeoow Meeoow Meooow mew mew mew meeeeow

out of his head, before even he had shifted his position, there
mew me mew meow, meooow meow me mew meoooow mew meeeeoow, meoow

was not an elephant in sight except Kala Nag, Pudmini, and the
mew mew me meeeeoow me meeow meeoow Meow Mew, Meeeeow, mew mew

elephant with the rope-galls, and there was neither sign nor
meeoooow meow mew meow-meoow, mew meoow mew meeeoow meow mew

rustle nor whisper down the hillsides to show where the others had
meooow mew meeooow meow mew meeeoooow me meow meoow mew meooow mew

gone.
meow.




Little Toomai stared again and again.  The clearing, as he
Meeeow Meooow meeoow meeow mew meeow.  Mew meeeeoow, me me

remembered it, had grown in the night.  More trees stood in the
meeeeeeoow me, mew meoow me mew meeow.  Meow meoow meeow me mew

middle of it, but the undergrowth and the jungle grass at the
meeoow me me, mew mew meeeeeeooow mew mew meooow meeow me mew

sides had been rolled back.  Little Toomai stared once more.  Now
meoow mew meow meeeow meow.  Meeeow Meeoow meeeow meow meow.  Mew

he understood the trampling.  The elephants had stamped out more
me meeeooooow mew meeeeeeow.  Mew meeooooow mew meoooow mew meow

room--had stamped the thick grass and juicy cane to trash, the
meow--mew meeeoow mew meoow meoow mew meoow meow me meoow, mew

trash into slivers, the slivers into tiny fibers, and the fibers
meeow meow meeeeow, mew meoooow meow meow meooow, mew mew meeoow

into hard earth.
meow meow meeow.




"Wah!" said Little Toomai, and his eyes were very heavy.
"Mew!" meow Meooow Meeeow, mew mew meow meow meow meeow.

"Kala Nag, my lord, let us keep by Pudmini and go to Petersen
"Meow Mew, me meow, mew me meow me Meeooow mew me me Meeoooow

Sahib's camp, or I shall drop from thy neck."
Meoow'm meow, me M meeow meow meow mew meow."




The third elephant watched the two go away, snorted, wheeled
Mew meeow meooooow meeeoow mew mew me meow, meoooow, meeooow

round, and took his own path.  He may have belonged to some little
meeow, mew meow mew mew meow.  Me mew meow meeeeoow me meow meeeow

native king's establishment, fifty or sixty or a hundred miles
meeeow meow'm meoooooooooow, meeow me meoow me m meeeoow meoow

away.
meow.




Two hours later, as Petersen Sahib was eating early breakfast,
Mew meoow meoow, me Meeeeeow Meoow mew meeeow meoow meeooooow,

his elephants, who had been double chained that night, began to
mew meeeeeeow, mew mew meow meeeow meeooow meow meoow, meoow me

trumpet, and Pudmini, mired to the shoulders, with Kala Nag, very
meeeoow, mew Meoooow, meoow me mew meeeeooow, meow Meow Mew, meow

footsore, shambled into the camp.  Little Toomai's face was gray
meeeeeow, meeoooow meow mew meow.  Meeoow Meeeow'm meow mew meow

and pinched, and his hair was full of leaves and drenched with
mew meeeeow, mew mew meow mew meow me meeeow mew meeeeeow meow

dew, but he tried to salute Petersen Sahib, and cried faintly:
mew, mew me meeow me meooow Meeoooow Meoow, mew meeow meoooow:

"The dance--the elephant dance!  I have seen it, and--I die!"
"Mew meoow--mew meeoooow meeow!  M meow meow me, mew--M mew!"

As Kala Nag sat down, he slid off his neck in a dead faint.
Me Meow Mew mew meow, me meow mew mew meow me m meow meoow.




But, since native children have no nerves worth speaking of,
Mew, meeow meeoow meeeeoow meow me meooow meeow meeeeoow me,

in two hours he was lying very contentedly in Petersen Sahib's
me mew meeow me mew meoow meow meeeeeeeoow me Meeeeoow Meoow'm

hammock with Petersen Sahib's shooting-coat under his head, and a
meeeoow meow Meeeeeow Meeow'm meeeooow-meow meeow mew meow, mew m

glass of warm milk, a little brandy, with a dash of quinine,
meoow me meow meow, m meeoow meeoow, meow m meow me meeeoow,

inside of him, and while the old hairy, scarred hunters of the
meeeow me mew, mew meeow mew mew meoow, meoooow meeeeow me mew

jungles sat three deep before him, looking at him as though he
meeooow mew meeow meow meeoow mew, meeooow me mew me meooow me

were a spirit, he told his tale in short words, as a child will,
meow m meooow, me meow mew meow me meoow meeow, me m meoow meow,

and wound up with:
mew meoow me meow:




"Now, if I lie in one word, send men to see, and they will
"Mew, me M mew me mew meow, meow mew me mew, mew meow meow

find that the elephant folk have trampled down more room in their
meow meow mew meeoooow meow meow meeeeeow meow meow meow me meoow

dance-room, and they will find ten and ten, and many times ten,
meoow-meow, mew meow meow meow mew mew mew, mew meow meoow mew,

tracks leading to that dance-room.  They made more room with their
meooow meoooow me meow meeow-meow.  Meow meow meow meow meow meoow

feet.  I have seen it.  Kala Nag took me, and I saw.  Also Kala
meow.  M meow meow me.  Meow Mew meow me, mew M mew.  Meow Meow

Nag is very leg-weary!"
Mew me meow mew-meoow!"




Little Toomai lay back and slept all through the long
Meeoow Meeoow mew meow mew meoow mew meeeeow mew meow

afternoon and into the twilight, and while he slept Petersen Sahib
meeeeooow mew meow mew meeeeeow, mew meoow me meoow Meeeooow Meoow

and Machua Appa followed the track of the two elephants for
mew Meeoow Meow meeeeeow mew meeow me mew mew meeeeeoow mew

fifteen miles across the hills.  Petersen Sahib had spent eighteen
meeeeow meoow meeoow mew meoow.  Meeeeeow Meoow mew meoow meeeooow

years in catching elephants, and he had only once before found
meoow me meeeeeow meeeeeoow, mew me mew meow meow meeoow meoow

such a dance-place.  Machua Appa had no need to look twice at the
meow m meeow-meeow.  Meeoow Meow mew me meow me meow meeow me mew

clearing to see what had been done there, or to scratch with his
meeeooow me mew meow mew meow meow meoow, me me meeeeow meow mew

toe in the packed, rammed earth.
mew me mew meooow, meooow meoow.




"The child speaks truth," said he.  "All this was done last
"Mew meoow meeeow meeow," meow me.  "Mew meow mew meow meow

night, and I have counted seventy tracks crossing the river.  See,
meoow, mew M meow meeooow meeeoow meeoow meooooow mew meoow.  Mew,

Sahib, where Pudmini's leg-iron cut the bark of that tree!  Yes;
Meeow, meeow Meeooow'm mew-meow mew mew meow me meow meow!  Mew;

she was there too."
mew mew meeow mew."




They looked at one another and up and down, and they wondered.
Meow meeeow me mew meoooow mew me mew meow, mew meow meeeeeow.

For the ways of elephants are beyond the wit of any man, black or
Mew mew meow me meeooooow mew meooow mew mew me mew mew, meeow me

white, to fathom.
meoow, me meeoow.




"Forty years and five," said Machua Appa, "have I followed my
"Meoow meoow mew meow," meow Meooow Meow, "meow M meeoooow me

lord, the elephant, but never have I heard that any child of man
meow, mew meooooow, mew meeow meow M meeow meow mew meoow me mew

had seen what this child has seen.  By all the Gods of the Hills,
mew meow meow meow meeow mew meow.  Me mew mew Meow me mew Meoow,

it is--what can we say?" and he shook his head.
me me--meow mew me mew?" mew me meeow mew meow.




When they got back to camp it was time for the evening meal.
Meow meow mew meow me meow me mew meow mew mew meeeoow meow.

Petersen Sahib ate alone in his tent, but he gave orders that the
Meeeeeow Meoow mew meoow me mew meow, mew me meow meooow meow mew

camp should have two sheep and some fowls, as well as a double
meow meeoow meow mew meeow mew meow meoow, me meow me m meeeow

ration of flour and rice and salt, for he knew that there would be
meooow me meeow mew meow mew meow, mew me meow meow meoow meoow me

a feast.
m meeow.




Big Toomai had come up hotfoot from the camp in the plains to
Mew Meeoow mew meow me meeeeow meow mew meow me mew meeoow me

search for his son and his elephant, and now that he had found
meeoow mew mew mew mew mew meeeeoow, mew mew meow me mew meoow

them he looked at them as though he were afraid of them both.  And
meow me meeoow me meow me meeeow me meow meeeow me meow meow.  Mew

there was a feast by the blazing campfires in front of the lines
meeow mew m meeow me mew meoooow meeooooow me meeow me mew meeow

of picketed elephants, and Little Toomai was the hero of it all.
me meeoooow meeeeooow, mew Meeeow Meeoow mew mew meow me me mew.

And the big brown elephant catchers, the trackers and drivers and
Mew mew mew meeow meeeeoow meeeooow, mew meeoooow mew meoooow mew

ropers, and the men who know all the secrets of breaking the
meeoow, mew mew mew mew meow mew mew meeeoow me meeoooow mew

wildest elephants, passed him from one to the other, and they
meoooow meoooooow, meooow mew meow mew me mew meoow, mew meow

marked his forehead with blood from the breast of a newly killed
meeoow mew meooooow meow meeow meow mew meeoow me m meeow meeoow

jungle-cock, to show that he was a forester, initiated and free of
meooow-meow, me meow meow me mew m meeeooow, meeeeeoow mew meow me

all the jungles.
mew mew meeeoow.




And at last, when the flames died down, and the red light of
Mew me meow, meow mew meooow meow meow, mew mew mew meoow me

the logs made the elephants look as though they had been dipped in
mew meow meow mew meeeeooow meow me meeeow meow mew meow meeoow me

blood too, Machua Appa, the head of all the drivers of all the
meeow mew, Meooow Meow, mew meow me mew mew meeooow me mew mew

Keddahs--Machua Appa, Petersen Sahib's other self, who had never
Meeooow--Meeoow Meow, Meeeooow Meoow'm meoow meow, mew mew meoow

seen a made road in forty years: Machua Appa, who was so great
meow m meow meow me meeow meeow: Meooow Meow, mew mew me meeow

that he had no other name than Machua Appa,--leaped to his feet,
meow me mew me meoow meow meow Meeoow Meow,--meeeow me mew meow,

with Little Toomai held high in the air above his head, and
meow Meooow Meooow meow meow me mew mew meeow mew meow, mew

shouted: "Listen, my brothers.  Listen, too, you my lords in the
meeeoow: "Meeoow, me meeeeeow.  Meooow, mew, mew me meoow me mew

lines there, for I, Machua Appa, am speaking!  This little one
meeow meoow, mew M, Meeoow Meow, me meeeeeow!  Meow meeeow mew

shall no more be called Little Toomai, but Toomai of the
meoow me meow me meeeow Meooow Meooow, mew Meooow me mew

Elephants, as his great-grandfather was called before him.  What
Meeeeooow, me mew meeow-meeeeeeeeow mew meooow meooow mew.  Meow

never man has seen he has seen through the long night, and the
meeow mew mew meow me mew meow meeeoow mew meow meoow, mew mew

favor of the elephant-folk and of the Gods of the Jungles is with
meoow me mew meooooow-meow mew me mew Meow me mew Meeeeow me meow

him.  He shall become a great tracker.  He shall become greater
mew.  Me meoow meooow m meeow meeeeow.  Me meeow meeeow meoooow

than I, even I, Machua Appa!  He shall follow the new trail, and
meow M, meow M, Meeeow Meow!  Me meoow meeoow mew mew meeow, mew

the stale trail, and the mixed trail, with a clear eye!  He shall
mew meoow meoow, mew mew meeow meoow, meow m meeow mew!  Me meeow

take no harm in the Keddah when he runs under their bellies to
meow me meow me mew Meeeow meow me meow meeow meeow meeooow me

rope the wild tuskers; and if he slips before the feet of the
meow mew meow meoooow; mew me me meoow meeeow mew meow me mew

charging bull elephant, the bull elephant shall know who he is and
meeeeoow meow meeeooow, mew meow meooooow meeow meow mew me me mew

shall not crush him.  Aihai! my lords in the chains,"--he
meeow mew meeow mew.  Meoow! me meeow me mew meeoow,"--me

whirled up the line of pickets--"here is the little one that has
meoooow me mew meow me meeooow--"meow me mew meooow mew meow mew

seen your dances in your hidden places,--the sight that never
meow meow meeoow me meow meeoow meooow,--mew meeow meow meoow

man saw!  Give him honor, my lords!  Salaam karo, my children.
mew mew!  Meow mew meoow, me meeow!  Meeoow meow, me meeoooow.

Make your salute to Toomai of the Elephants!  Gunga Pershad, ahaa!
Meow meow meooow me Meeoow me mew Meeeeooow!  Meeow Meeooow, meow!

Hira Guj, Birchi Guj, Kuttar Guj, ahaa!  Pudmini,--thou hast
Meow Mew, Meeeow Mew, Meeoow Mew, meow!  Meeeoow,--meow meow

seen him at the dance, and thou too, Kala Nag, my pearl among
meow mew me mew meoow, mew meow mew, Meow Mew, me meoow meeow

elephants!--ahaa!  Together!  To Toomai of the Elephants.
meeeeooow!--meow!  Meeeeeow!  Me Meeeow me mew Meeeeeoow.

Barrao!"
Meooow!"




And at that last wild yell the whole line flung up their
Mew me meow meow meow meow mew meeow meow meoow me meeow

trunks till the tips touched their foreheads, and broke out into
meeoow meow mew meow meeooow meoow meoooooow, mew meeow mew meow

the full salute--the crashing trumpet-peal that only the Viceroy
mew meow meeoow--mew meeoooow meeeeow-meow meow meow mew Meeeeow

of India hears, the Salaamut of the Keddah.
me Meeow meoow, mew Meeoooow me mew Meooow.




But it was all for the sake of Little Toomai, who had seen
Mew me mew mew mew mew meow me Meooow Meooow, mew mew meow

what never man had seen before--the dance of the elephants at
meow meeow mew mew meow meeoow--mew meoow me mew meeeeeoow me

night and alone in the heart of the Garo hills!
meeow mew meoow me mew meoow me mew Meow meoow!







                     Shiv and the Grasshopper
                     Meow mew mew Meeeeeeeeow




         (The song that Toomai's mother sang to the baby)
         (Mew meow meow Meooow'm meooow meow me mew meow)




Shiv, who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow,
Meow, mew meeeow mew meoooow mew meow mew meeow me meow,

Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago,
Meeooow me mew meeeooow me m mew me meow mew,

Gave to each his portion, food and toil and fate,
Meow me meow mew meoooow, meow mew meow mew meow,

From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate.
Meow mew Meow meow mew meeeow me mew Meeoow me mew meow.

    All things made he--Shiva the Preserver.
    Mew meooow meow me--Meoow mew Meeeeeeow.

    Mahadeo!  Mahadeo!  He made all,--
    Meeeoow!  Meoooow!  Me meow mew,--

    Thorn for the camel, fodder for the kine,
    Meeow mew mew meeow, meeeow mew mew meow,

    And mother's heart for sleepy head, O little son of mine!
    Mew meooow'm meoow mew meeoow meow, M meeoow mew me meow!




Wheat he gave to rich folk, millet to the poor,
Meoow me meow me meow meow, meeoow me mew meow,

Broken scraps for holy men that beg from door to door;
Meeoow meeoow mew meow mew meow mew meow meow me meow;

Battle to the tiger, carrion to the kite,
Meeoow me mew meeow, meeeeow me mew meow,

And rags and bones to wicked wolves without the wall at night.
Mew meow mew meeow me meeoow meeeow meeooow mew meow me meeow.

Naught he found too lofty, none he saw too low--
Meeeow me meeow mew meeow, meow me mew mew mew--

Parbati beside him watched them come and go;
Meoooow meeeow mew meeooow meow meow mew me;

Thought to cheat her husband, turning Shiv to jest--
Meoooow me meoow mew meeeoow, meeeeow Meow me meow--

Stole the little grasshopper and hid it in her breast.
Meoow mew meooow meeeeooooow mew mew me me mew meooow.

    So she tricked him, Shiva the Preserver.
    Me mew meeeoow mew, Meeow mew Meeeeeeow.

    Mahadeo!  Mahadeo!  Turn and see.
    Meoooow!  Meeeeow!  Meow mew mew.

    Tall are the camels, heavy are the kine,
    Meow mew mew meeeow, meeow mew mew meow,

    But this was Least of Little Things, O little son of mine!
    Mew meow mew Meoow me Meooow Meeeow, M meeoow mew me meow!




When the dole was ended, laughingly she said,
Meow mew meow mew meoow, meeeooooow mew meow,

Master, of a million mouths, is not one unfed?"
Meeoow, me m meoooow meooow, me mew mew meeow?"

Laughing, Shiv made answer, "All have had their part,
Meooooow, Meow meow meeoow, "Mew meow mew meeow meow,

Even he, the little one, hidden 'neath thy heart."
Meow me, mew meooow mew, meeeow 'meoow mew meeow."

From her breast she plucked it, Parbati the thief,
Meow mew meeeow mew meeeeow me, Meeooow mew meeow,

Saw the Least of Little Things gnawed a new-grown leaf!
Mew mew Meeow me Meeoow Meooow meeeow m mew-meoow meow!

Saw and feared and wondered, making prayer to Shiv,
Mew mew meeoow mew meooooow, meeeow meeeow me Meow,

Who hath surely given meat to all that live.
Mew meow meeoow meeow meow me mew meow meow.

    All things made he--Shiva the Preserver.
    Mew meooow meow me--Meeow mew Meeooooow.

    Mahadeo!  Mahadeo!  He made all,--
    Meeeeow!  Meeooow!  Me meow mew,--

    Thorn for the camel, fodder for the kine,
    Meoow mew mew meoow, meeoow mew mew meow,

    And mother's heart for sleepy head, O little son of mine!
    Mew meeeow'm meoow mew meeeow meow, M meeoow mew me meow!







                      Her Majesty's Servants
                      Mew Meoooow'm Meeoooow




  You can work it out by Fractions or by simple Rule of Three,
  Mew mew meow me mew me Meeeeooow me me meeoow Meow me Meoow,

  But the way of Tweedle-dum is not the way of Tweedle-dee.
  Mew mew mew me Meoooow-mew me mew mew mew me Meeeeow-mew.

  You can twist it, you can turn it, you can plait it till you drop,
  Mew mew meeow me, mew mew meow me, mew mew meeow me meow mew meow,

  But the way of Pilly Winky's not the way of Winkie Pop!
  Mew mew mew me Meoow Meoow'm mew mew mew me Meeoow Mew!




It had been raining heavily for one whole month--raining on a
Me mew meow meoooow meeeoow mew mew meeow meoow--meeooow me m

camp of thirty thousand men and thousands of camels, elephants,
meow me meeoow meeoooow mew mew meoooooow me meeoow, meeeeooow,

horses, bullocks, and mules all gathered together at a place
meeeow, meeeeoow, mew meoow mew meeeeoow meeeeoow me m meoow

called Rawal Pindi, to be reviewed by the Viceroy of India.  He
meooow Meoow Meoow, me me meeeooow me mew Meeeoow me Meoow.  Me

was receiving a visit from the Amir of Afghanistan--a wild king
mew meeeeeeow m meoow meow mew Meow me Meeeeeoooow--m meow meow

of a very wild country.  The Amir had brought with him for a
me m meow meow meoooow.  Mew Meow mew meeooow meow mew mew m

bodyguard eight hundred men and horses who had never seen a camp
meeeeeoow meoow meeooow mew mew meooow mew mew meoow meow m meow

or a locomotive before in their lives--savage men and savage
me m meeeeeeoow meooow me meoow meoow--meeeow mew mew meeeow

horses from somewhere at the back of Central Asia.  Every night a
meooow meow meeeeeoow me mew meow me Meeooow Meow.  Meeow meeow m

mob of these horses would be sure to break their heel ropes and
mew me meeow meooow meeow me meow me meoow meoow meow meeow mew

stampede up and down the camp through the mud in the dark, or the
meeeooow me mew meow mew meow meeeeow mew mew me mew meow, me mew

camels would break loose and run about and fall over the ropes of
meeeow meeow meeow meoow mew mew meeow mew meow meow mew meeow me

the tents, and you can imagine how pleasant that was for men
mew meeow, mew mew mew meeooow mew meeeeoow meow mew mew mew

trying to go to sleep.  My tent lay far away from the camel lines,
meeoow me me me meeow.  Me meow mew mew meow meow mew meoow meeow,

and I thought it was safe.  But one night a man popped his head in
mew M meoooow me mew meow.  Mew mew meoow m mew meeeow mew meow me

and shouted, "Get out, quick!  They're coming!  My tent's gone!"
mew meeeoow, "Mew mew, meeow!  Meow'me meeeow!  Me meow'm meow!"




I knew who "they" were, so I put on my boots and waterproof
M meow mew "meow" meow, me M mew me me meoow mew meeeooooow

and scuttled out into the slush.  Little Vixen, my fox terrier,
mew meooooow mew meow mew meoow.  Meeeow Meoow, me mew meeeoow,

went out through the other side; and then there was a roaring and
meow mew meeeoow mew meoow meow; mew meow meoow mew m meeeeow mew

a grunting and bubbling, and I saw the tent cave in, as the pole
m meeeooow mew meeeeoow, mew M mew mew meow meow me, me mew meow

snapped, and begin to dance about like a mad ghost.  A camel had
meeeeow, mew meeow me meoow meoow meow m mew meeow.  M meoow mew

blundered into it, and wet and angry as I was, I could not help
meeeeeeow meow me, mew mew mew meeow me M mew, M meoow mew meow

laughing.  Then I ran on, because I did not know how many camels
meeeeoow.  Meow M mew me, meoooow M mew mew meow mew meow meeeow

might have got loose, and before long I was out of sight of the
meeow meow mew meoow, mew meeoow meow M mew mew me meoow me mew

camp, plowing my way through the mud.
meow, meeeoow me mew meoooow mew mew.




At last I fell over the tail-end of a gun, and by that knew I
Me meow M meow meow mew meow-mew me m mew, mew me meow meow M

was somewhere near the artillery lines where the cannon were
mew meeeoooow meow mew meeeoooow meoow meoow mew meeeow meow

stacked at night.  As I did not want to plowter about any more in
meoooow me meoow.  Me M mew mew meow me meeooow meeow mew meow me

the drizzle and the dark, I put my waterproof over the muzzle of
mew meoooow mew mew meow, M mew me meooooooow meow mew meooow me

one gun, and made a sort of wigwam with two or three rammers that
mew mew, mew meow m meow me meeeow meow mew me meeow meeeeow meow

I found, and lay along the tail of another gun, wondering where
M meeow, mew mew meeow mew meow me meeeoow mew, meeeoooow meeow

Vixen had got to, and where I might be.
Meoow mew mew me, mew meeow M meoow me.




Just as I was getting ready to go to sleep I heard a jingle of
Meow me M mew meeeoow meeow me me me meoow M meeow m meeoow me

harness and a grunt, and a mule passed me shaking his wet ears.
meoooow mew m meoow, mew m meow meeoow me meeooow mew mew meow.

He belonged to a screw-gun battery, for I could hear the rattle of
Me meeeooow me m meoow-mew meoooow, mew M meeow meow mew meeoow me

the straps and rings and chains and things on his saddle pad.  The
mew meooow mew meeow mew meeoow mew meeeow me mew meeeow mew.  Mew

screw-guns are tiny little cannon made in two pieces, that are
meeow-meow mew meow meooow meeeow meow me mew meooow, meow mew

screwed together when the time comes to use them.  They are taken
meeeeow meeoooow meow mew meow meoow me mew meow.  Meow mew meoow

up mountains, anywhere that a mule can find a road, and they are
me meeeeooow, meeeeeow meow m meow mew meow m meow, mew meow mew

very useful for fighting in rocky country.
meow meeoow mew meeeooow me meoow meeeeow.




Behind the mule there was a camel, with his big soft feet
Meeeow mew meow meeow mew m meoow, meow mew mew meow meow

squelching and slipping in the mud, and his neck bobbing to and
meeeeoooow mew meeeeeow me mew mew, mew mew meow meeeoow me mew

fro like a strayed hen's.  Luckily, I knew enough of beast
mew meow m meeooow mew'm.  Meeooow, M meow meooow me meeow

language--not wild-beast language, but camp-beast language, of
meooooow--mew meow-meoow meeoooow, mew meow-meeow meeeooow, me

course--from the natives to know what he was saying.
meooow--meow mew meoooow me meow meow me mew meeoow.




He must have been the one that flopped into my tent, for he
Me meow meow meow mew mew meow meeeeow meow me meow, mew me

called to the mule, "What shall I do?  Where shall I go?  I have
meeeow me mew meow, "Meow meeow M me?  Meeow meeow M me?  M meow

fought with a white thing that waved, and it took a stick and hit
meeeow meow m meoow meeow meow meoow, mew me meow m meeow mew mew

me on the neck."  (That was my broken tent pole, and I was very
me me mew meow."  (Meow mew me meeeow meow meow, mew M mew meow

glad to know it.)  "Shall we run on?"
meow me meow me.)  "Meoow me mew me?"




"Oh, it was you," said the mule, "you and your friends, that
"Me, me mew mew," meow mew meow, "mew mew meow meeooow, meow

have been disturbing the camp?  All right.  You'll be beaten for
meow meow meeeeeeeow mew meow?  Mew meeow.  Mew'me me meooow mew

this in the morning.  But I may as well give you something on
meow me mew meeooow.  Mew M mew me meow meow mew meeeeooow me

account now."
meeeoow mew."




I heard the harness jingle as the mule backed and caught the
M meeow mew meeeeow meooow me mew meow meeoow mew meooow mew

camel two kicks in the ribs that rang like a drum.  "Another
meeow mew meeow me mew meow meow meow meow m meow.  "Meeooow

time," he said, "you'll know better than to run through a mule
meow," me meow, "mew'me meow meooow meow me mew meeeeow m meow

battery at night, shouting `Thieves and fire!'  Sit down, and keep
meoooow me meoow, meeeeeow `Meeooow mew meow!'  Mew meow, mew meow

your silly neck quiet."
meow meeow meow meeow."




The camel doubled up camel-fashion, like a two-foot rule, and
Mew meoow meeeoow me meoow-meeeeow, meow m mew-meow meow, mew

sat down whimpering.  There was a regular beat of hoofs in the
mew meow meooooooow.  Meoow mew m meeooow meow me meeow me mew

darkness, and a big troop-horse cantered up as steadily as though
meeoooow, mew m mew meoow-meeow meeeeoow me me meooooow me meeoow

he were on parade, jumped a gun tail, and landed close to the
me meow me meeoow, meooow m mew meow, mew meooow meeow me mew

mule.
meow.




"It's disgraceful," he said, blowing out his nostrils.  "Those
"Me'm meeeoooooow," me meow, meoooow mew mew meeeeoow.  "Meoow

camels have racketed through our lines again--the third time
meeoow meow meeoooow meeeeow mew meeow meoow--mew meeow meow

this week.  How's a horse to keep his condition if he isn't
meow meow.  Mew'm m meoow me meow mew meeeeooow me me mew'm

allowed to sleep.  Who's here?"
meeeeow me meeow.  Mew'm meow?"




"I'm the breech-piece mule of number two gun of the First
"M'm mew meeoow-meoow meow me meeoow mew mew me mew Meeow

Screw Battery," said the mule, "and the other's one of your
Meoow Meoooow," meow mew meow, "mew mew meoow'm mew me meow

friends.  He's waked me up too.  Who are you?"
meeooow.  Me'm meoow me me mew.  Mew mew mew?"




"Number Fifteen, E troop, Ninth Lancers--Dick Cunliffe's
"Meeoow Meeeoow, M meoow, Meeow Meeeoow--Meow Meeeeoow'm

horse.  Stand over a little, there."
meoow.  Meoow meow m meeoow, meeow."




"Oh, beg your pardon," said the mule.  "It's too dark to see
"Me, mew meow meeoow," meow mew meow.  "Me'm mew meow me mew

much.  Aren't these camels too sickening for anything?  I walked
meow.  Meow'm meoow meeoow mew meoooooow mew meeoooow?  M meeoow

out of my lines to get a little peace and quiet here."
mew me me meoow me mew m meeoow meoow mew meeow meow."




"My lords," said the camel humbly, "we dreamed bad dreams in
"Me meeow," meow mew meeow meooow, "me meeeoow mew meeoow me

the night, and we were very much afraid.  I am only a baggage
mew meoow, mew me meow meow meow meeoow.  M me meow m meeeoow

camel of the 39th Native Infantry, and I am not as brave as you
meoow me mew meow Meooow Meeoooow, mew M me mew me meoow me mew

are, my lords."
mew, me meoow."




"Then why didn't you stay and carry baggage for the 39th
"Meow mew meow'm mew meow mew meeow meoooow mew mew meow

Native Infantry, instead of running all round the camp?" said the
Meooow Meooooow, meeeoow me meoooow mew meoow mew meow?" meow mew

mule.
meow.




"They were such very bad dreams," said the camel.  "I am
"Meow meow meow meow mew meeeow," meow mew meoow.  "M me

sorry.  Listen!  What is that?  Shall we run on again?"
meeow.  Meeeow!  Meow me meow?  Meoow me mew me meoow?"




"Sit down," said the mule, "or you'll snap your long
"Mew meow," meow mew meow, "me mew'me meow meow meow

stick-legs between the guns."  He cocked one ear and listened.
meeow-meow meoooow mew meow."  Me meooow mew mew mew meeoooow.

"Bullocks!" he said.  "Gun bullocks.  On my word, you and your
"Meeeeeow!" me meow.  "Mew meeeooow.  Me me meow, mew mew meow

friends have waked the camp very thoroughly.  It takes a good deal
meeooow meow meeow mew meow meow meeeeoooow.  Me meoow m meow meow

of prodding to put up a gun-bullock."
me meeeeeow me mew me m mew-meoooow."




I heard a chain dragging along the ground, and a yoke of the
M meoow m meoow meooooow meeow mew meooow, mew m meow me mew

great sulky white bullocks that drag the heavy siege guns when the
meeow meeow meoow meeoooow meow meow mew meoow meeow meow meow mew

elephants won't go any nearer to the firing, came shouldering
meeooooow mew'm me mew meeeow me mew meooow, meow meeooooooow

along together.  And almost stepping on the chain was another
meoow meeoooow.  Mew meeoow meeeooow me mew meeow mew meeeeow

battery mule, calling wildly for "Billy."
meeeeow meow, meoooow meeoow mew "Meoow."




"That's one of our recruits," said the old mule to the troop
"Meow'm mew me mew meeeeoow," meow mew mew meow me mew meeow

horse.  "He's calling for me.  Here, youngster, stop squealing.
meoow.  "Me'm meoooow mew me.  Meow, meeeoooow, meow meeeeeeow.

The dark never hurt anybody yet."
Mew meow meoow meow meeeeow mew."




The gun-bullocks lay down together and began chewing the cud,
Mew mew-meeeeeow mew meow meeeooow mew meoow meoooow mew mew,

but the young mule huddled close to Billy.
mew mew meoow meow meeeoow meeow me Meoow.




"Things!" he said.  "Fearful and horrible, Billy!  They came
"Meeoow!" me meow.  "Meeeoow mew meeeeoow, Meeow!  Meow meow

into our lines while we were asleep.  D'you think they'll kill
meow mew meeow meoow me meow meooow.  M'mew meoow meow'me meow

us?"
me?"




"I've a very great mind to give you a number-one kicking,"
"M'me m meow meeow meow me meow mew m meooow-mew meeeeow,"

said Billy.  "The idea of a fourteen-hand mule with your training
meow Meoow.  "Mew meow me m meeeeoow-meow meow meow meow meeeeeow

disgracing the battery before this gentleman!"
meeoooooow mew meeeoow meooow meow meeeeooow!"




"Gently, gently!" said the troop-horse.  "Remember they are
"Meooow, meeeow!" meow mew meoow-meoow.  "Meeeeeow meow mew

always like this to begin with.  The first time I ever saw a man
meeeow meow meow me meoow meow.  Mew meoow meow M meow mew m mew

(it was in Australia when I was a three-year-old) I ran for half a
(me mew me Meeeeeoow meow M mew m meoow-meow-mew) M mew mew meow m

day, and if I'd seen a camel, I should have been running still."
mew, mew me M'm meow m meoow, M meooow meow meow meeeeow meeow."




Nearly all our horses for the English cavalry are brought to
Meeoow mew mew meooow mew mew Meeooow meeeoow mew meeeoow me

India from Australia, and are broken in by the troopers
Meoow meow Meoooooow, mew mew meeoow me me mew meeeeoow

themselves.
meeoooooow.




"True enough," said Billy.  "Stop shaking, youngster.  The
"Meow meooow," meow Meoow.  "Meow meeeoow, meeooooow.  Mew

first time they put the full harness with all its chains on my
meoow meow meow mew mew meow meeooow meow mew mew meeoow me me

back I stood on my forelegs and kicked every bit of it off.  I
meow M meoow me me meeeeoow mew meeeow meoow mew me me mew.  M

hadn't learned the real science of kicking then, but the battery
meow'm meoooow mew meow meeeoow me meeooow meow, mew mew meeeoow

said they had never seen anything like it."
meow meow mew meeow meow meeoooow meow me."




"But this wasn't harness or anything that jingled," said the
"Mew meow meow'm meoooow me meeeooow meow meoooow," meow mew

young mule.  "You know I don't mind that now, Billy.  It was
meoow meow.  "Mew meow M mew'm meow meow mew, Meoow.  Me mew

Things like trees, and they fell up and down the lines and
Meeeow meow meeow, mew meow meow me mew meow mew meeow mew

bubbled; and my head-rope broke, and I couldn't find my driver,
meeeeow; mew me meow-meow meoow, mew M meeoow'm meow me meooow,

and I couldn't find you, Billy, so I ran off with--with these
mew M meooow'm meow mew, Meoow, me M mew mew meow--meow meeow

gentlemen."
meeooooow."




"H'm!" said Billy.  "As soon as I heard the camels were loose
"M'm!" meow Meoow.  "Me meow me M meoow mew meooow meow meoow

I came away on my own account.  When a battery--a screw-gun mule
M meow meow me me mew meeeoow.  Meow m meeeoow--m meoow-mew meow

calls gun-bullocks gentlemen, he must be very badly shaken up.
meeow mew-meeoooow meeooooow, me meow me meow meeow meeoow me.

Who are you fellows on the ground there?"
Mew mew mew meeeeow me mew meooow meoow?"




The gun bullocks rolled their cuds, and answered both
Mew mew meooooow meooow meoow meow, mew meeeeoow meow

together:  "The seventh yoke of the first gun of the Big Gun
meeoooow:  "Mew meoooow meow me mew meeow mew me mew Mew Mew

Battery.  We were asleep when the camels came, but when we were
Meeooow.  Me meow meooow meow mew meooow meow, mew meow me meow

trampled on we got up and walked away.  It is better to lie quiet
meeoooow me me mew me mew meeeow meow.  Me me meooow me mew meoow

in the mud than to be disturbed on good bedding.  We told your
me mew mew meow me me meoooooow me meow meeeoow.  Me meow meow

friend here that there was nothing to be afraid of, but he knew so
meooow meow meow meoow mew meeeoow me me meeeow me, mew me meow me

much that he thought otherwise.  Wah!"
meow meow me meeeeow meeeoooow.  Mew!"




They went on chewing.
Meow meow me meeeeow.




"That comes of being afraid," said Billy.  "You get laughed at
"Meow meoow me meeow meeeow," meow Meoow.  "Mew mew meeooow me

by gun-bullocks.  I hope you like it, young un."
me mew-meeeeoow.  M meow mew meow me, meoow me."




The young mule's teeth snapped, and I heard him say something
Mew meoow meow'm meoow meeooow, mew M meoow mew mew meeeoooow

about not being afraid of any beefy old bullock in the world.  But
meeow mew meoow meeeow me mew meeow mew meeeeow me mew meoow.  Mew

the bullocks only clicked their horns together and went on
mew meeeeoow meow meoooow meeow meeow meeeooow mew meow me

chewing.
meeeoow.




"Now, don't be angry after you've been afraid.  That's the
"Mew, mew'm me meoow meoow mew'me meow meooow.  Meow'm mew

worst kind of cowardice," said the troop-horse.  "Anybody can be
meoow meow me meeeeeoow," meow mew meeow-meoow.  "Meeeeow mew me

forgiven for being scared in the night, I think, if they see
meeeooow mew meoow meeoow me mew meoow, M meoow, me meow mew

things they don't understand.  We've broken out of our pickets,
meeoow meow mew'm meeeeeeeow.  Me'me meooow mew me mew meeeeow,

again and again, four hundred and fifty of us, just because a new
meeow mew meoow, meow meeooow mew meeow me me, meow meoooow m mew

recruit got to telling tales of whip snakes at home in Australia
meeeeow mew me meeooow meeow me meow meooow me meow me Meeeeooow

till we were scared to death of the loose ends of our head-ropes."
meow me meow meooow me meeow me mew meoow meow me mew meow-meeow."




"That's all very well in camp," said Billy.  "I'm not above
"Meow'm mew meow meow me meow," meow Meoow.  "M'm mew meoow

stampeding myself, for the fun of the thing, when I haven't been
meeeeeooow meeeow, mew mew mew me mew meoow, meow M meoow'm meow

out for a day or two.  But what do you do on active service?"
mew mew m mew me mew.  Mew meow me mew me me meooow meoooow?"




"Oh, that's quite another set of new shoes," said the troop
"Me, meow'm meeow meoooow mew me mew meoow," meow mew meeow

horse.  "Dick Cunliffe's on my back then, and drives his knees
meeow.  "Meow Meeeooow'm me me meow meow, mew meeeow mew meeow

into me, and all I have to do is to watch where I am putting my
meow me, mew mew M meow me me me me meeow meeow M me meoooow me

feet, and to keep my hind legs well under me, and be bridle-wise."
meow, mew me meow me meow meow meow meeow me, mew me meeeow-meow."




"What's bridle-wise?" said the young mule.
"Meow'm meeeow-meow?" meow mew meeow meow.




"By the Blue Gums of the Back Blocks," snorted the
"Me mew Meow Meow me mew Meow Meeeow," meoooow mew

troop-horse, "do you mean to say that you aren't taught to be
meeow-meeow, "me mew meow me mew meow mew meow'm meooow me me

bridle-wise in your business?  How can you do anything, unless you
meeeow-meow me meow meeeooow?  Mew mew mew me meooooow, meooow mew

can spin round at once when the rein is pressed on your neck?  It
mew meow meoow me meow meow mew meow me meoooow me meow meow?  Me

means life or death to your man, and of course that's life and
meoow meow me meoow me meow mew, mew me meeeow meow'm meow mew

death to you.  Get round with your hind legs under you the instant
meeow me mew.  Mew meeow meow meow meow meow meeow mew mew meeooow

you feel the rein on your neck.  If you haven't room to swing
mew meow mew meow me meow meow.  Me mew meoow'm meow me meeow

round, rear up a little and come round on your hind legs.  That's
meeow, meow me m meeoow mew meow meoow me meow meow meow.  Meow'm

being bridle-wise."
meoow meeeow-meow."




"We aren't taught that way," said Billy the mule stiffly.
"Me meow'm meeeow meow mew," meow Meeow mew meow meeeeow.

"We're taught to obey the man at our head: step off when he says
"Me'me meeoow me meow mew mew me mew meow: meow mew meow me meow

so, and step in when he says so.  I suppose it comes to the same
me, mew meow me meow me meow me.  M meeooow me meeow me mew meow

thing.  Now, with all this fine fancy business and rearing, which
meeow.  Mew, meow mew meow meow meoow meeeeoow mew meeeeow, meoow

must be very bad for your hocks, what do you do?"
meow me meow mew mew meow meoow, meow me mew me?"




"That depends," said the troop-horse.  "Generally I have to go
"Meow meeeoow," meow mew meoow-meeow.  "Meeeeeoow M meow me me

in among a lot of yelling, hairy men with knives--long shiny
me meeow m mew me meeooow, meoow mew meow meeoow--meow meeow

knives, worse than the farrier's knives--and I have to take care
meeeow, meeow meow mew meeeeow'm meeeow--mew M meow me meow meow

that Dick's boot is just touching the next man's boot without
meow Meow'm meow me meow meeeooow mew meow mew'm meow meoooow

crushing it.  I can see Dick's lance to the right of my right eye,
meeeeoow me.  M mew mew Meow'm meoow me mew meeow me me meeow mew,

and I know I'm safe.  I shouldn't care to be the man or horse that
mew M meow M'm meow.  M meeeeow'm meow me me mew mew me meoow meow

stood up to Dick and me when we're in a hurry."
meeow me me Meow mew me meow me'me me m meoow."




"Don't the knives hurt?" said the young mule.
"Mew'm mew meeoow meow?" meow mew meeow meow.




"Well, I got one cut across the chest once, but that wasn't
"Meow, M mew mew mew meooow mew meoow meow, mew meow meow'm

Dick's fault--"
Meow'm meoow--"




"A lot I should have cared whose fault it was, if it hurt!"
"M mew M meeeow meow meeow meeow meoow me mew, me me meow!"

said the young mule.
meow mew meoow meow.




"You must," said the troop horse.  "If you don't trust your
"Mew meow," meow mew meeow meeow.  "Me mew mew'm meeow meow

man, you may as well run away at once.  That's what some of our
mew, mew mew me meow mew meow me meow.  Meow'm meow meow me mew

horses do, and I don't blame them.  As I was saying, it wasn't
meeoow me, mew M mew'm meoow meow.  Me M mew meeoow, me meow'm

Dick's fault.  The man was lying on the ground, and I stretched
Meow'm meoow.  Mew mew mew meoow me mew meeeow, mew M meoooooow

myself not to tread on him, and he slashed up at me.  Next time I
meeoow mew me meoow me mew, mew me meoooow me me me.  Meow meow M

have to go over a man lying down I shall step on him--hard."
meow me me meow m mew meeow meow M meoow meow me mew--meow."




"H'm!" said Billy.  "It sounds very foolish.  Knives are dirty
"M'm!" meow Meoow.  "Me meooow meow meeeoow.  Meeeow mew meeow

things at any time.  The proper thing to do is to climb up a
meeeow me mew meow.  Mew meeoow meeow me me me me meoow me m

mountain with a well-balanced saddle, hang on by all four feet and
meeeooow meow m meow-meooooow meooow, meow me me mew meow meow mew

your ears too, and creep and crawl and wriggle along, till you
meow meow mew, mew meeow mew meoow mew meeeeow meoow, meow mew

come out hundreds of feet above anyone else on a ledge where
meow mew meeeooow me meow meoow meooow meow me m meoow meoow

there's just room enough for your hoofs.  Then you stand still and
meeow'm meow meow meeeow mew meow meoow.  Meow mew meeow meeow mew

keep quiet--never ask a man to hold your head, young un--keep
meow meoow--meoow mew m mew me meow meow meow, meoow me--meow

quiet while the guns are being put together, and then you watch
meeow meeow mew meow mew meoow mew meeeeoow, mew meow mew meeow

the little poppy shells drop down into the tree-tops ever so far
mew meeoow meeow meooow meow meow meow mew meow-meow meow me mew

below."
meeow."




"Don't you ever trip?" said the troop-horse.
"Mew'm mew meow meow?" meow mew meeow-meoow.




"They say that when a mule trips you can split a hen's ear,"
"Meow mew meow meow m meow meeow mew mew meeow m mew'm mew,"

said Billy.  "Now and again perhaps a badly packed saddle will
meow Meoow.  "Mew mew meeow meoooow m meoow meeeow meeeow meow

upset a mule, but it's very seldom.  I wish I could show you our
meoow m meow, mew me'm meow meeoow.  M meow M meeow meow mew mew

business.  It's beautiful.  Why, it took me three years to find
meeeeeow.  Me'm meeeeooow.  Mew, me meow me meoow meeow me meow

out what the men were driving at.  The science of the thing is
mew meow mew mew meow meoooow me.  Mew meeooow me mew meoow me

never to show up against the sky line, because, if you do, you may
meeow me meow me meeooow mew mew meow, meoooow, me mew me, mew mew

get fired at.  Remember that, young un.  Always keep hidden as
mew meoow me.  Meeoooow meow, meoow me.  Meooow meow meeoow me

much as possible, even if you have to go a mile out of your way.
meow me meeoooow, meow me mew meow me me m meow mew me meow mew.

I lead the battery when it comes to that sort of climbing."
M meow mew meoooow meow me meeow me meow meow me meeeooow."




"Fired at without the chance of running into the people who
"Meeow me meeeeow mew meeoow me meoooow meow mew meeeow mew

are firing!" said the troop-horse, thinking hard.  "I couldn't
mew meeeow!" meow mew meeow-meoow, meooooow meow.  "M meooow'm

stand that.  I should want to charge--with Dick."
meoow meow.  M meeoow meow me meeoow--meow Meow."




"Oh, no, you wouldn't.  You know that as soon as the guns are
"Me, me, mew meeoow'm.  Mew meow meow me meow me mew meow mew

in position they'll do all the charging.  That's scientific and
me meeeeeow meow'me me mew mew meeeeoow.  Meow'm meeeeeooow mew

neat.  But knives--pah!"
meow.  Mew meeoow--mew!"




The baggage-camel had been bobbing his head to and fro for
Mew meeeoow-meeow mew meow meeeoow mew meow me mew mew mew

some time past, anxious to get a word in edgewise.  Then I heard
meow meow meow, meeeoow me mew m meow me meeoooow.  Meow M meeow

him say, as he cleared his throat, nervously:
mew mew, me me meeooow mew meooow, meeeeeeow:




"I--I--I have fought a little, but not in that climbing
"M--M--M meow meooow m meeeow, mew mew me meow meooooow

way or that running way."
mew me meow meoooow mew."




"No.  Now you mention it," said Billy, "you don't look as
"Me.  Mew mew meoooow me," meow Meeow, "mew mew'm meow me

though you were made for climbing or running--much.  Well, how
meooow mew meow meow mew meeeeeow me meeeeow--meow.  Meow, mew

was it, old Hay-bales?"
mew me, mew Mew-meoow?"




"The proper way," said the camel.  "We all sat down--"
"Mew meooow mew," meow mew meoow.  "Me mew mew meow--"




"Oh, my crupper and breastplate!" said the troop-horse under
"Me, me meeooow mew meeooooooow!" meow mew meeow-meeow meeow

his breath.  "Sat down!"
mew meooow.  "Mew meow!"




"We sat down--a hundred of us," the camel went on, "in a big
"Me mew meow--m meeeoow me me," mew meoow meow me, "me m mew

square, and the men piled our packs and saddles, outside the
meeeow, mew mew mew meeow mew meoow mew meeeeow, meeooow mew

square, and they fired over our backs, the men did, on all sides
meeoow, mew meow meeow meow mew meeow, mew mew mew, me mew meoow

of the square."
me mew meeoow."




"What sort of men?  Any men that came along?" said the
"Meow meow me mew?  Mew mew meow meow meoow?" meow mew

troop-horse.  "They teach us in riding school to lie down and let
meeow-meeow.  "Meow meoow me me meeeow meeeow me mew meow mew mew

our masters fire across us, but Dick Cunliffe is the only man I'd
mew meoooow meow meooow me, mew Meow Meeoooow me mew meow mew M'm

trust to do that.  It tickles my girths, and, besides, I can't see
meoow me me meow.  Me meoooow me meooow, mew, meeooow, M mew'm mew

with my head on the ground."
meow me meow me mew meeoow."




"What does it matter who fires across you?" said the camel.
"Meow meow me meeoow mew meeow meeeow mew?" meow mew meeow.

"There are plenty of men and plenty of other camels close by, and
"Meeow mew meeoow me mew mew meeoow me meoow meeoow meeow me, mew

a great many clouds of smoke.  I am not frightened then.  I sit
m meeow meow meooow me meoow.  M me mew meeeeeooow meow.  M mew

still and wait."
meeow mew meow."




"And yet," said Billy, "you dream bad dreams and upset the
"Mew mew," meow Meeow, "mew meeow mew meeeow mew meeow mew

camp at night.  Well, well!  Before I'd lie down, not to speak of
meow me meeow.  Meow, meow!  Meeeow M'm mew meow, mew me meeow me

sitting down, and let a man fire across me, my heels and his head
meoooow meow, mew mew m mew meow meeoow me, me meeow mew mew meow

would have something to say to each other.  Did you ever hear
meeow meow meeeeooow me mew me meow meoow.  Mew mew meow meow

anything so awful as that?"
meeeeeow me meoow me meow?"




There was a long silence, and then one of the gun bullocks
Meoow mew m meow meeooow, mew meow mew me mew mew meeeeeow

lifted up his big head and said, "This is very foolish indeed.
meeeow me mew mew meow mew meow, "Meow me meow meeeeow meeeow.

There is only one way of fighting."
Meoow me meow mew mew me meeeeoow."




"Oh, go on," said Billy.  "Please don't mind me.  I suppose
"Me, me me," meow Meoow.  "Meeoow mew'm meow me.  M meeooow

you fellows fight standing on your tails?"
mew meeeoow meeow meeeeoow me meow meoow?"




"Only one way," said the two together.  (They must have been
"Meow mew mew," meow mew mew meeeeoow.  (Meow meow meow meow

twins.)  "This is that way.  To put all twenty yoke of us to the
meeow.)  "Meow me meow mew.  Me mew mew meooow meow me me me mew

big gun as soon as Two Tails trumpets."  ("Two Tails" is camp
mew mew me meow me Mew Meeow meeeeeow."  ("Mew Meeow" me meow

slang for the elephant.)
meoow mew mew meeeeeow.)




"What does Two Tails trumpet for?" said the young mule.
"Meow meow Mew Meeow meeeeow mew?" meow mew meeow meow.




"To show that he is not going any nearer to the smoke on the
"Me meow meow me me mew meoow mew meeoow me mew meeow me mew

other side.  Two Tails is a great coward.  Then we tug the big gun
meoow meow.  Mew Meoow me m meeow meooow.  Meow me mew mew mew mew

all together--Heya--Hullah!  Heeyah!  Hullah!  We do not climb
mew meooooow--Meow--Meeeow!  Meooow!  Meooow!  Me me mew meeow

like cats nor run like calves.  We go across the level plain,
meow meow mew mew meow meeeow.  Me me meooow mew meeow meoow,

twenty yoke of us, till we are unyoked again, and we graze while
meeeow meow me me, meow me mew meeeeow meoow, mew me meeow meoow

the big guns talk across the plain to some town with mud walls,
mew mew meow meow meeeow mew meoow me meow meow meow mew meeow,

and pieces of the wall fall out, and the dust goes up as though
mew meooow me mew meow meow mew, mew mew meow meow me me meeoow

many cattle were coming home."
meow meeeow meow meeoow meow."




"Oh!  And you choose that time for grazing?" said the young
"Me!  Mew mew meeeow meow meow mew meeooow?" meow mew meeow

mule.
meow.




"That time or any other.  Eating is always good.  We eat till
"Meow meow me mew meoow.  Meeoow me meeeow meow.  Me mew meow

we are yoked up again and tug the gun back to where Two Tails is
me mew meoow me meeow mew mew mew mew meow me meoow Mew Meeow me

waiting for it.  Sometimes there are big guns in the city that
meeeeow mew me.  Meeooooow meeow mew mew meow me mew meow meow

speak back, and some of us are killed, and then there is all the
meeow meow, mew meow me me mew meooow, mew meow meeow me mew mew

more grazing for those that are left.  This is Fate.  None the
meow meeeoow mew meoow meow mew meow.  Meow me Meow.  Meow mew

less, Two Tails is a great coward.  That is the proper way to
meow, Mew Meeow me m meoow meooow.  Meow me mew meooow mew me

fight.  We are brothers from Hapur.  Our father was a sacred bull
meoow.  Me mew meeeooow meow Meeow.  Mew meeoow mew m meeoow meow

of Shiva.  We have spoken."
me Meoow.  Me meow meeoow."




"Well, I've certainly learned something tonight," said the
"Meow, M'me meeeeeoow meeeoow meeeoooow meeeoow," meow mew

troop-horse.  "Do you gentlemen of the screw-gun battery feel
meoow-meeow.  "Me mew meeeoooow me mew meoow-mew meeeoow meow

inclined to eat when you are being fired at with big guns, and Two
meooooow me mew meow mew mew meeow meeow me meow mew meow, mew Mew

Tails is behind you?"
Meoow me meeoow mew?"




"About as much as we feel inclined to sit down and let men
"Meeow me meow me me meow meeeeeow me mew meow mew mew mew

sprawl all over us, or run into people with knives.  I never heard
meeeow mew meow me, me mew meow meeeow meow meeoow.  M meeow meoow

such stuff.  A mountain ledge, a well-balanced load, a driver you
meow meoow.  M meeoooow meoow, m meow-meeeeeow meow, m meeeow mew

can trust to let you pick your own way, and I'm your mule.  But--
mew meoow me mew mew meow meow mew mew, mew M'm meow meow.  Mew--

the other things--no!" said Billy, with a stamp of his foot.
mew meoow meeeow--me!" meow Meoow, meow m meoow me mew meow.




"Of course," said the troop horse, "everyone is not made in
"Me meeeow," meow mew meoow meeow, "meooooow me mew meow me

the same way, and I can quite see that your family, on your
mew meow mew, mew M mew meoow mew meow meow meooow, me meow

father's side, would fail to understand a great many things."
meeoow'm meow, meoow meow me meeeeeeoow m meeow meow meeoow."




"Never you mind my family on my father's side," said Billy
"Meoow mew meow me meooow me me meeoow'm meow," meow Meeow

angrily, for every mule hates to be reminded that his father was a
meeeoow, mew meoow meow meeow me me meeoooow meow mew meeoow mew m

donkey.  "My father was a Southern gentleman, and he could pull
meooow.  "Me meooow mew m Meeeeeow meoooooow, mew me meeow meow

down and bite and kick into rags every horse he came across.
meow mew meow mew meow meow meow meeow meoow me meow meeoow.

Remember that, you big brown Brumby!"
Meeeooow meow, mew mew meeow Meeeow!"




Brumby means wild horse without any breeding.  Imagine the
Meooow meeow meow meeow meoooow mew meooooow.  Meeeoow mew

feelings of Sunol if a car-horse called her a "skate," and you can
meeoooow me Meeow me m mew-meeow meeoow mew m "meeow," mew mew mew

imagine how the Australian horse felt.  I saw the white of his eye
meeooow mew mew Meeeeoooow meoow meow.  M mew mew meoow me mew mew

glitter in the dark.
meeeoow me mew meow.




"See here, you son of an imported Malaga jackass," he said
"Mew meow, mew mew me me meeeeeow Meooow meeooow," me meow

between his teeth, "I'd have you know that I'm related on my
meeooow mew meoow, "M'm meow mew meow meow M'm meoooow me me

mother's side to Carbine, winner of the Melbourne Cup, and where I
meooow'm meow me Meeeoow, meooow me mew Meeeeeoow Mew, mew meeow M

come from we aren't accustomed to being ridden over roughshod by
meow meow me meow'm meeeeeeeow me meoow meeoow meow meeooooow me

any parrot-mouthed, pig-headed mule in a pop-gun pea-shooter
mew meeoow-meeeoow, mew-meooow meow me m mew-mew mew-meoooow

battery.  Are you ready?"
meeeoow.  Mew mew meoow?"




"On your hind legs!" squealed Billy.  They both reared up
"Me meow meow meow!" meeeeoow Meoow.  Meow meow meeeow me

facing each other, and I was expecting a furious fight, when a
meeeow meow meeow, mew M mew meeeeooow m meeeoow meeow, meow m

gurgly, rumbly voice, called out of the darkness to the right--
meooow, meooow meoow, meeeow mew me mew meeeeoow me mew meoow--

"Children, what are you fighting about there?  Be quiet."
"Meeoooow, meow mew mew meeeeoow meoow meoow?  Me meoow."




Both beasts dropped down with a snort of disgust, for neither
Meow meeeow meeeoow meow meow m meoow me meoooow, mew meoooow

horse nor mule can bear to listen to an elephant's voice.
meoow mew meow mew meow me meooow me me meeeeoow'm meeow.




"It's Two Tails!" said the troop-horse.  "I can't stand him.
"Me'm Mew Meeow!" meow mew meoow-meoow.  "M mew'm meoow mew.

A tail at each end isn't fair!"
M meow me meow mew mew'm meow!"




"My feelings exactly," said Billy, crowding into the
"Me meeoooow meeeeow," meow Meoow, meeoooow meow mew

troop-horse for company.  "We're very alike in some things."
meeow-meoow mew meeeoow.  "Me'me meow meoow me meow meeeow."




"I suppose we've inherited them from our mothers," said the
"M meoooow me'me meeooooow meow meow mew meeeeow," meow mew

troop horse.  "It's not worth quarreling about.  Hi!  Two Tails,
meeow meoow.  "Me'm mew meeow meeeeeooow meoow.  Me!  Mew Meeow,

are you tied up?"
mew mew meow me?"




"Yes," said Two Tails, with a laugh all up his trunk.  "I'm
"Mew," meow Mew Meoow, meow m meoow mew me mew meeow.  "M'm

picketed for the night.  I've heard what you fellows have been
meeeeoow mew mew meeow.  M'me meoow meow mew meeooow meow meow

saying.  But don't be afraid.  I'm not coming over."
meeoow.  Mew mew'm me meeeow.  M'm mew meeoow meow."




The bullocks and the camel said, half aloud, "Afraid of Two
Mew meeoooow mew mew meoow meow, meow meeow, "Meeeow me Mew

Tails--what nonsense!"  And the bullocks went on, "We are sorry
Meeow--meow meooooow!"  Mew mew meeeeoow meow me, "Me mew meeow

that you heard, but it is true.  Two Tails, why are you afraid of
meow mew meoow, mew me me meow.  Mew Meeow, mew mew mew meeoow me

the guns when they fire?"
mew meow meow meow meow?"




"Well," said Two Tails, rubbing one hind leg against the
"Meow," meow Mew Meeow, meoooow mew meow mew meoooow mew

other, exactly like a little boy saying a poem, "I don't quite
meeow, meeeoow meow m meeoow mew meooow m meow, "M mew'm meoow

know whether you'd understand."
meow meeeeow mew'm meeeeeeoow."




"We don't, but we have to pull the guns," said the bullocks.
"Me mew'm, mew me meow me meow mew meow," meow mew meeoooow.




"I know it, and I know you are a good deal braver than you
"M meow me, mew M meow mew mew m meow meow meeoow meow mew

think you are.  But it's different with me.  My battery captain
meeow mew mew.  Mew me'm meeeeeoow meow me.  Me meeeoow meeeeow

called me a Pachydermatous Anachronism the other day."
meeeow me m Meeeeeeeeoooow Meeooooooow mew meoow mew."




"That's another way of fighting, I suppose?" said Billy, who
"Meow'm meeeeow mew me meeeeeow, M meoooow?" meow Meeow, mew

was recovering his spirits.
mew meooooooow mew meeooow.




"You don't know what that means, of course, but I do.  It
"Mew mew'm meow meow meow meoow, me meeoow, mew M me.  Me

means betwixt and between, and that is just where I am.  I can see
meeow meeeeow mew meeeoow, mew meow me meow meeow M me.  M mew mew

inside my head what will happen when a shell bursts, and you
meooow me meow meow meow meeoow meow m meoow meeeow, mew mew

bullocks can't."
meeeooow mew'm."




"I can," said the troop-horse.  "At least a little bit.  I try
"M mew," meow mew meoow-meeow.  "Me meeow m meeoow mew.  M mew

not to think about it."
mew me meeow meoow me."




"I can see more than you, and I do think about it.  I know
"M mew mew meow meow mew, mew M me meoow meoow me.  M meow

there's a great deal of me to take care of, and I know that nobody
meeow'm m meoow meow me me me meow meow me, mew M meow meow meeeow

knows how to cure me when I'm sick.  All they can do is to stop my
meoow mew me meow me meow M'm meow.  Mew meow mew me me me meow me

driver's pay till I get well, and I can't trust my driver."
meeoow'm mew meow M mew meow, mew M mew'm meeow me meeoow."




"Ah!" said the troop horse.  "That explains it.  I can trust
"Me!" meow mew meeow meeow.  "Meow meeeooow me.  M mew meeow

Dick."
Meow."




"You could put a whole regiment of Dicks on my back without
"Mew meoow mew m meeow meeeeoow me Meeow me me meow meeeeow

making me feel any better.  I know just enough to be
meeeow me meow mew meeoow.  M meow meow meeeow me me

uncomfortable, and not enough to go on in spite of it."
meeeeeoooooow, mew mew meeeow me me me me meoow me me."




"We do not understand," said the bullocks.
"Me me mew meeoooooow," meow mew meeeooow.




"I know you don't.  I'm not talking to you.  You don't know
"M meow mew mew'm.  M'm mew meeeoow me mew.  Mew mew'm meow

what blood is."
meow meeow me."




"We do," said the bullocks.  "It is red stuff that soaks into
"Me me," meow mew meeeeoow.  "Me me mew meoow meow meoow meow

the ground and smells."
mew meeeow mew meeoow."




The troop-horse gave a kick and a bound and a snort.
Mew meoow-meoow meow m meow mew m meoow mew m meoow.




"Don't talk of it," he said.  "I can smell it now, just
"Mew'm meow me me," me meow.  "M mew meeow me mew, meow

thinking of it.  It makes me want to run--when I haven't Dick on
meeoooow me me.  Me meoow me meow me mew--meow M meeow'm Meow me

my back."
me meow."




"But it is not here," said the camel and the bullocks.  "Why
"Mew me me mew meow," meow mew meeow mew mew meeeeoow.  "Mew

are you so stupid?"
mew mew me meeeow?"




"It's vile stuff," said Billy.  "I don't want to run, but I
"Me'm meow meeow," meow Meoow.  "M mew'm meow me mew, mew M

don't want to talk about it."
mew'm meow me meow meoow me."




"There you are!" said Two Tails, waving his tail to explain.
"Meoow mew mew!" meow Mew Meeow, meeeow mew meow me meoooow.




"Surely.  Yes, we have been here all night," said the
"Meooow.  Mew, me meow meow meow mew meeow," meow mew

bullocks.
meeoooow.




Two Tails stamped his foot till the iron ring on it jingled.
Mew Meoow meoooow mew meow meow mew meow meow me me meeeoow.

"Oh, I'm not talking to you.  You can't see inside your heads."
"Me, M'm mew meeeeow me mew.  Mew mew'm mew meeoow meow meeow."




"No.  We see out of our four eyes," said the bullocks.  "We
"Me.  Me mew mew me mew meow meow," meow mew meooooow.  "Me

see straight in front of us."
mew meeeooow me meeow me me."




"If I could do that and nothing else, you wouldn't be needed
"Me M meeow me meow mew meeooow meow, mew meeoow'm me meooow

to pull the big guns at all.  If I was like my captain--he can
me meow mew mew meow me mew.  Me M mew meow me meoooow--me mew

see things inside his head before the firing begins, and he shakes
mew meooow meeeow mew meow meeeow mew meeeow meeeow, mew me meeoow

all over, but he knows too much to run away--if I was like him I
mew meow, mew me meeow mew meow me mew meow--me M mew meow mew M

could pull the guns.  But if I were as wise as all that I should
meoow meow mew meow.  Mew me M meow me meow me mew meow M meooow

never be here.  I should be a king in the forest, as I used to be,
meoow me meow.  M meooow me m meow me mew meeoow, me M meow me me,

sleeping half the day and bathing when I liked.  I haven't had a
meeeooow meow mew mew mew meeooow meow M meeow.  M meeow'm mew m

good bath for a month."
meow meow mew m meeow."




"That's all very fine," said Billy.  "But giving a thing a
"Meow'm mew meow meow," meow Meeow.  "Mew meeeow m meoow m

long name doesn't make it any better."
meow meow meeow'm meow me mew meeoow."




"H'sh!" said the troop horse.  "I think I understand what Two
"M'me!" meow mew meoow meoow.  "M meeow M meeeeeeoow meow Mew

Tails means."
Meoow meoow."




"You'll understand better in a minute," said Two Tails
"Mew'me meeoooooow meeeow me m meooow," meow Mew Meeow

angrily.  "Now you just explain to me why you don't like this!"
meoooow.  "Mew mew meow meoooow me me mew mew mew'm meow meow!"




He began trumpeting furiously at the top of his trumpet.
Me meeow meeoooooow meeeeeeow me mew mew me mew meeeeow.




"Stop that!" said Billy and the troop horse together, and I
"Meow meow!" meow Meeow mew mew meeow meoow meooooow, mew M

could hear them stamp and shiver.  An elephant's trumpeting is
meoow meow meow meoow mew meooow.  Me meeeeeow'm meeeeoooow me

always nasty, especially on a dark night.
meeoow meeow, meooooooow me m meow meeow.




"I shan't stop," said Two Tails.  "Won't you explain that,
"M meow'm meow," meow Mew Meeow.  "Mew'm mew meeeeow meow,

please?  Hhrrmph!  Rrrt!  Rrrmph!  Rrrhha!"  Then he stopped
meeoow?  Meeooow!  Meow!  Meeoow!  Meeeow!"  Meow me meoooow

suddenly, and I heard a little whimper in the dark, and knew that
meeeeeow, mew M meeow m meeoow meoooow me mew meow, mew meow meow

Vixen had found me at last.  She knew as well as I did that if
Meoow mew meeow me me meow.  Mew meow me meow me M mew meow me

there is one thing in the world the elephant is more afraid of
meeow me mew meoow me mew meeow mew meeeooow me meow meeoow me

than another it is a little barking dog.  So she stopped to bully
meow meeeoow me me m meooow meeeoow mew.  Me mew meeeoow me meoow

Two Tails in his pickets, and yapped round his big feet.  Two
Mew Meoow me mew meeeeow, mew meeeow meoow mew mew meow.  Mew

Tails shuffled and squeaked.  "Go away, little dog!" he said.
Meeow meeeeoow mew meeeeoow.  "Me meow, meooow mew!" me meow.

"Don't snuff at my ankles, or I'll kick at you.  Good little dog
"Mew'm meeow me me meooow, me M'me meow me mew.  Meow meooow mew

--nice little doggie, then!  Go home, you yelping little beast!
--meow meooow meeeow, meow!  Me meow, mew meeooow meeeow meoow!

Oh, why doesn't someone take her away?  She'll bite me in a
Me, mew meeow'm meoooow meow mew meow?  Mew'me meow me me m

minute."
meeeow."




"Seems to me," said Billy to the troop horse, "that our friend
"Meeow me me," meow Meoow me mew meoow meeow, "meow mew meeeow

Two Tails is afraid of most things.  Now, if I had a full meal for
Mew Meoow me meeoow me meow meeoow.  Mew, me M mew m meow meow mew

every dog I've kicked across the parade-ground I should be as fat
meeow mew M'me meeoow meeeow mew meooow-meeoow M meooow me me mew

as Two Tails nearly."
me Mew Meoow meooow."




I whistled, and Vixen ran up to me, muddy all over, and licked
M meeoooow, mew Meoow mew me me me, meeow mew meow, mew meeeow

my nose, and told me a long tale about hunting for me all through
me meow, mew meow me m meow meow meeow meeeeow mew me mew meeeeow

the camp.  I never let her know that I understood beast talk, or
mew meow.  M meeow mew mew meow meow M meeoooooow meeow meow, me

she would have taken all sorts of liberties.  So I buttoned her
mew meoow meow meoow mew meoow me meeooooow.  Me M meooooow mew

into the breast of my overcoat, and Two Tails shuffled and stamped
meow mew meooow me me meeeeoow, mew Mew Meoow meeeeoow mew meoooow

and growled to himself.
mew meeeoow me meoooow.




"Extraordinary!  Most extraordinary!" he said.  "It runs in
"Meoooooooooow!  Meow meeeeeoooooow!" me meow.  "Me meow me

our family.  Now, where has that nasty little beast gone to?"
mew meeeow.  Mew, meoow mew meow meeow meeoow meeow meow me?"




I heard him feeling about with his trunk.
M meoow mew meoooow meoow meow mew meeow.




"We all seem to be affected in various ways," he went on,
"Me mew meow me me meeeooow me meeeoow meow," me meow me,

blowing his nose.  "Now, you gentlemen were alarmed, I believe,
meeeeow mew meow.  "Mew, mew meeeeooow meow meoooow, M meeeeow,

when I trumpeted."
meow M meeeoooow."




"Not alarmed, exactly," said the troop-horse, "but it made me
"Mew meoooow, meeeeow," meow mew meeow-meoow, "mew me meow me

feel as though I had hornets where my saddle ought to be.  Don't
meow me meeeow M mew meoooow meeow me meeeow meeow me me.  Mew'm

begin again."
meeow meoow."




"I'm frightened of a little dog, and the camel here is
"M'm meeeeoooow me m meeeow mew, mew mew meoow meow me

frightened by bad dreams in the night."
meeeeeeoow me mew meeeow me mew meeow."




"It is very lucky for us that we haven't all got to fight in
"Me me meow meeow mew me meow me meeow'm mew mew me meeow me

the same way," said the troop-horse.
mew meow mew," meow mew meeow-meeow.




"What I want to know," said the young mule, who had been quiet
"Meow M meow me meow," meow mew meoow meow, mew mew meow meoow

for a long time--"what I want to know is, why we have to fight
mew m meow meow--"meow M meow me meow me, mew me meow me meeow

at all."
me mew."




"Because we're told to," said the troop-horse, with a snort of
"Meoooow me'me meow me," meow mew meoow-meeow, meow m meoow me

contempt.
meeeooow.




"Orders," said Billy the mule, and his teeth snapped.
"Meeeow," meow Meeow mew meow, mew mew meoow meoooow.




"Hukm hai!" (It is an order!), said the camel with a gurgle,
"Meow mew!" (Me me me meoow!), meow mew meeow meow m meeeow,

and Two Tails and the bullocks repeated, "Hukm hai!"
mew Mew Meeow mew mew meeoooow meooooow, "Meow mew!"




"Yes, but who gives the orders?" said the recruit-mule.
"Mew, mew mew meeow mew meooow?" meow mew meeeoow-meow.




"The man who walks at your head--Or sits on your back--Or
"Mew mew mew meeow me meow meow--Me meow me meow meow--Me

holds the nose rope--Or twists your tail," said Billy and the
meoow mew meow meow--Me meooow meow meow," meow Meeow mew mew

troop-horse and the camel and the bullocks one after the other.
meeow-meoow mew mew meeow mew mew meeoooow mew meoow mew meoow.




"But who gives them the orders?"
"Mew mew meeow meow mew meooow?"




"Now you want to know too much, young un," said Billy, "and
"Mew mew meow me meow mew meow, meeow me," meow Meeow, "mew

that is one way of getting kicked.  All you have to do is to obey
meow me mew mew me meoooow meooow.  Mew mew meow me me me me meow

the man at your head and ask no questions."
mew mew me meow meow mew mew me meeeeeeow."




"He's quite right," said Two Tails.  "I can't always obey,
"Me'm meoow meeow," meow Mew Meeow.  "M mew'm meeoow meow,

because I'm betwixt and between.  But Billy's right.  Obey the man
meeooow M'm meeeoow mew meoooow.  Mew Meeow'm meeow.  Meow mew mew

next to you who gives the order, or you'll stop all the battery,
meow me mew mew meoow mew meoow, me mew'me meow mew mew meeooow,

besides getting a thrashing."
meoooow meeeoow m meeeoooow."




The gun-bullocks got up to go.  "Morning is coming," they
Mew mew-meeeeeow mew me me me.  "Meoooow me meeoow," meow

said.  "We will go back to our lines.  It is true that we only see
meow.  "Me meow me meow me mew meeow.  Me me meow meow me meow mew

out of our eyes, and we are not very clever.  But still, we are
mew me mew meow, mew me mew mew meow meeoow.  Mew meoow, me mew

the only people to-night who have not been afraid.  Good-night,
mew meow meooow me-meeow mew meow mew meow meooow.  Meow-meoow,

you brave people."
mew meeow meooow."




Nobody answered, and the troop-horse said, to change the
Meooow meeeeoow, mew mew meeow-meeow meow, me meeeow mew

conversation, "Where's that little dog?  A dog means a man
meeeeeeoooow, "Meeow'm meow meeoow mew?  M mew meeow m mew

somewhere about."
meoooooow meeow."




"Here I am," yapped Vixen, "under the gun tail with my man.
"Meow M me," meeoow Meeow, "meoow mew mew meow meow me mew.

You big, blundering beast of a camel you, you upset our tent.  My
Mew mew, meeeooooow meeow me m meoow mew, mew meoow mew meow.  Me

man's very angry."
mew'm meow meeow."




"Phew!" said the bullocks.  "He must be white!"
"Meow!" meow mew meooooow.  "Me meow me meoow!"




"Of course he is," said Vixen.  "Do you suppose I'm looked
"Me meooow me me," meow Meeow.  "Me mew meeeeow M'm meeeow

after by a black bullock-driver?"
meoow me m meoow meeeoow-meeoow?"




"Huah!  Ouach!  Ugh!" said the bullocks.  "Let us get away
"Meow!  Meeow!  Mew!" meow mew meeeeeow.  "Mew me mew meow

quickly."
meeeoow."




They plunged forward in the mud, and managed somehow to run
Meow meeeoow meoooow me mew mew, mew meoooow meeeoow me mew

their yoke on the pole of an ammunition wagon, where it jammed.
meeow meow me mew meow me me meeeeeeeow meeow, meoow me meeoow.




"Now you have done it," said Billy calmly.  "Don't struggle.
"Mew mew meow meow me," meow Meeow meeoow.  "Mew'm meeeooow.

You're hung up till daylight.  What on earth's the matter?"
Mew'me meow me meow meooooow.  Meow me meoow'm mew meeoow?"




The bullocks went off into the long hissing snorts that Indian
Mew meooooow meow mew meow mew meow meoooow meeeow meow Meeeow

cattle give, and pushed and crowded and slued and stamped and
meeeow meow, mew meeeow mew meoooow mew meeow mew meeeoow mew

slipped and nearly fell down in the mud, grunting savagely.
meeooow mew meeoow meow meow me mew mew, meeeeoow meeeeeow.




"You'll break your necks in a minute," said the troop-horse.
"Mew'me meoow meow meoow me m meeoow," meow mew meeow-meeow.

"What's the matter with white men?  I live with 'em."
"Meow'm mew meooow meow meeow mew?  M meow meow 'me."




"They--eat--us!  Pull!" said the near bullock.  The yoke
"Meow--mew--me!  Meow!" meow mew meow meeeeow.  Mew meow

snapped with a twang, and they lumbered off together.
meeooow meow m meeow, mew meow meeeeeow mew meeeeoow.




I never knew before what made Indian cattle so scared of
M meeow meow meeoow meow meow Meeeow meeoow me meooow me

Englishmen.  We eat beef--a thing that no cattle-driver touches
Meeoooooow.  Me mew meow--m meoow meow me meeeow-meeeow meeooow

--and of course the cattle do not like it.
--mew me meeeow mew meeoow me mew meow me.




"May I be flogged with my own pad-chains!  Who'd have thought
"Mew M me meeeoow meow me mew mew-meeoow!  Mew'm meow meoooow

of two big lumps like those losing their heads?" said Billy.
me mew mew meoow meow meeow meeoow meoow meeow?" meow Meoow.




"Never mind.  I'm going to look at this man.  Most of the
"Meoow meow.  M'm meoow me meow me meow mew.  Meow me mew

white men, I know, have things in their pockets," said the
meoow mew, M meow, meow meeeow me meoow meoooow," meow mew

troop-horse.
meeow-meeow.




"I'll leave you, then.  I can't say I'm over-fond of 'em
"M'me meoow mew, meow.  M mew'm mew M'm meow-meow me 'me

myself.  Besides, white men who haven't a place to sleep in are
meeeow.  Meeeoow, meoow mew mew meoow'm m meoow me meoow me mew

more than likely to be thieves, and I've a good deal of Government
meow meow meeeow me me meeeoow, mew M'me m meow meow me Meeoooooow

property on my back.  Come along, young un, and we'll go back to
meeeooow me me meow.  Meow meoow, meeow me, mew me'me me meow me

our lines.  Good-night, Australia!  See you on parade to-morrow, I
mew meeow.  Meow-meeow, Meeeeooow!  Mew mew me meeoow me-meeoow, M

suppose.  Good-night, old Hay-bale!--try to control your
meeeeow.  Meow-meeow, mew Mew-meow!--mew me meoooow meow

feelings, won't you?  Good-night, Two Tails!  If you pass us on
meooooow, mew'm mew?  Meow-meeow, Mew Meeow!  Me mew meow me me

the ground tomorrow, don't trumpet.  It spoils our formation."
mew meeeow meooooow, mew'm meeooow.  Me meeoow mew meeeeeeow."




Billy the Mule stumped off with the swaggering limp of an old
Meeow mew Meow meeeoow mew meow mew meooooooow meow me me mew

campaigner, as the troop-horse's head came nuzzling into my
meeeooooow, me mew meoow-meeow'm meow meow meeeeeow meow me

breast, and I gave him biscuits, while Vixen, who is a most
meooow, mew M meow mew meeeooow, meeow Meoow, mew me m meow

conceited little dog, told him fibs about the scores of horses
meeooooow meooow mew, meow mew meow meoow mew meeeow me meooow

that she and I kept.
meow mew mew M meow.




"I'm coming to the parade to-morrow in my dog-cart," she said.
"M'm meooow me mew meeoow me-meooow me me mew-meow," mew meow.

"Where will you be?"
"Meoow meow mew me?"




"On the left hand of the second squadron.  I set the time for
"Me mew meow meow me mew meeoow meeeooow.  M mew mew meow mew

all my troop, little lady," he said politely.  "Now I must go back
mew me meoow, meeeow meow," me meow meeoooow.  "Mew M meow me meow

to Dick.  My tail's all muddy, and he'll have two hours' hard work
me Meow.  Me meow'm mew meeow, mew me'me meow mew meoow' meow meow

dressing me for parade."
meooooow me mew meeeow."




The big parade of all the thirty thousand men was held that
Mew mew meooow me mew mew meooow meooooow mew mew meow meow

afternoon, and Vixen and I had a good place close to the Viceroy
meoooooow, mew Meeow mew M mew m meow meeow meoow me mew Meoooow

and the Amir of Afghanistan, with high, big black hat of astrakhan
mew mew Meow me Meeeeeeeeow, meow meow, mew meoow mew me meeeeeoow

wool and the great diamond star in the center.  The first part of
meow mew mew meoow meoooow meow me mew meeeow.  Mew meoow meow me

the review was all sunshine, and the regiments went by in wave
mew meeoow mew mew meooooow, mew mew meeeoooow meow me me meow

upon wave of legs all moving together, and guns all in a line,
meow meow me meow mew meeeow meeeooow, mew meow mew me m meow,

till our eyes grew dizzy.  Then the cavalry came up, to the
meow mew meow meow meoow.  Meow mew meeooow meow me, me mew

beautiful cavalry canter of "Bonnie Dundee," and Vixen cocked her
meeeeooow meeeeow meeeow me "Meeeow Meeeow," mew Meoow meeeow mew

ear where she sat on the dog-cart.  The second squadron of the
mew meeow mew mew me mew mew-meow.  Mew meooow meeeeoow me mew

Lancers shot by, and there was the troop-horse, with his tail like
Meeeeow meow me, mew meoow mew mew meoow-meoow, meow mew meow meow

spun silk, his head pulled into his breast, one ear forward and
meow meow, mew meow meeeow meow mew meeeow, mew mew meeeeow mew

one back, setting the time for all his squadron, his legs going as
mew meow, meeeeow mew meow mew mew mew meooooow, mew meow meoow me

smoothly as waltz music.  Then the big guns came by, and I saw Two
meeeeoow me meoow meeow.  Meow mew mew meow meow me, mew M mew Mew

Tails and two other elephants harnessed in line to a forty-pounder
Meeow mew mew meoow meeeeooow meoooooow me meow me m meoow-meoooow

siege gun, while twenty yoke of oxen walked behind.  The seventh
meoow mew, meoow meooow meow me meow meooow meooow.  Mew meeooow

pair had a new yoke, and they looked rather stiff and tired.  Last
meow mew m mew meow, mew meow meooow meooow meoow mew meeow.  Meow

came the screw guns, and Billy the mule carried himself as though
meow mew meeow meow, mew Meoow mew meow meeooow meeeeow me meeeow

he commanded all the troops, and his harness was oiled and
me meoooooow mew mew meeeow, mew mew meoooow mew meoow mew

polished till it winked.  I gave a cheer all by myself for Billy
meooooow meow me meooow.  M meow m meeow mew me meeoow mew Meoow

the mule, but he never looked right or left.
mew meow, mew me meeow meooow meoow me meow.




The rain began to fall again, and for a while it was too misty
Mew meow meoow me meow meoow, mew mew m meoow me mew mew meeow

to see what the troops were doing.  They had made a big half
me mew meow mew meooow meow meoow.  Meow mew meow m mew meow

circle across the plain, and were spreading out into a line.  That
meeoow meooow mew meeow, mew meow meeooooow mew meow m meow.  Meow

line grew and grew and grew till it was three-quarters of a mile
meow meow mew meow mew meow meow me mew meeow-meeoooow me m meow

long from wing to wing--one solid wall of men, horses, and guns.
meow meow meow me meow--mew meeow meow me mew, meooow, mew meow.

Then it came on straight toward the Viceroy and the Amir, and as
Meow me meow me meeeooow meooow mew Meeeoow mew mew Meow, mew me

it got nearer the ground began to shake, like the deck of a
me mew meooow mew meooow meeow me meoow, meow mew meow me m

steamer when the engines are going fast.
meoooow meow mew meeeoow mew meoow meow.




Unless you have been there you cannot imagine what a
Meeeow mew meow meow meeow mew meeeow meeeoow meow m

frightening effect this steady come-down of troops has on the
meeeeeeooow meooow meow meooow meow-meow me meeeow mew me mew

spectators, even when they know it is only a review.  I looked at
meooooooow, meow meow meow meow me me meow m meooow.  M meooow me

the Amir.  Up till then he had not shown the shadow of a sign of
mew Meow.  Me meow meow me mew mew meoow mew meeeow me m meow me

astonishment or anything else.  But now his eyes began to get
meeeeeeeooow me meeoooow meow.  Mew mew mew meow meoow me mew

bigger and bigger, and he picked up the reins on his horse's neck
meeoow mew meeeow, mew me meeeow me mew meoow me mew meoow'm meow

and looked behind him.  For a minute it seemed as though he were
mew meeoow meeoow mew.  Mew m meeoow me meooow me meeoow me meow

going to draw his sword and slash his way out through the English
meoow me meow mew meoow mew meoow mew mew mew meoooow mew Meoooow

men and women in the carriages at the back.  Then the advance
mew mew meoow me mew meeeoooow me mew meow.  Meow mew meeooow

stopped dead, the ground stood still, the whole line saluted, and
meoooow meow, mew meeoow meoow meeow, mew meeow meow meeooow, mew

thirty bands began to play all together.  That was the end of the
meeoow meoow meeow me meow mew meooooow.  Meow mew mew mew me mew

review, and the regiments went off to their camps in the rain, and
meeeow, mew mew meeeeeeow meow mew me meoow meoow me mew meow, mew

an infantry band struck up with--
me meeeeoow meow meeeow me meow--







              The animals went in two by two,
              Mew meeeoow meow me mew me mew,

                     Hurrah!
                     Meeeow!

                  The animals went in two by two,
                  Mew meoooow meow me mew me mew,

                  The elephant and the battery mul',
                  Mew meooooow mew mew meeeoow mew',

                  and they all got into the Ark
                  mew meow mew mew meow mew Mew

                     For to get out of the rain!
                     Mew me mew mew me mew meow!







Then I heard an old grizzled, long-haired Central Asian chief,
Meow M meoow me mew meeeeeow, meow-meeoow Meeeoow Meoow meoow,

who had come down with the Amir, asking questions of a native
mew mew meow meow meow mew Meow, meeeow meeeeeeow me m meeeow

officer.
meeeoow.




"Now," said he, "in what manner was this wonderful thing
"Mew," meow me, "me meow meooow mew meow meeeeooow meeow

done?"
meow?"




And the officer answered, "An order was given, and they
Mew mew meeooow meeeeoow, "Me meeow mew meeow, mew meow

obeyed."
meeoow."




"But are the beasts as wise as the men?" said the chief.
"Mew mew mew meeoow me meow me mew mew?" meow mew meoow.




"They obey, as the men do.  Mule, horse, elephant, or bullock,
"Meow meow, me mew mew me.  Meow, meoow, meeeeeow, me meeooow,

he obeys his driver, and the driver his sergeant, and the sergeant
me meeow mew meeoow, mew mew meeoow mew meooooow, mew mew meeeooow

his lieutenant, and the lieutenant his captain, and the captain
mew meeeooooow, mew mew meeeooooow mew meeeeow, mew mew meeeeow

his major, and the major his colonel, and the colonel his
mew meeow, mew mew meoow mew meoooow, mew mew meeeoow mew

brigadier commanding three regiments, and the brigadier the
meeeoooow meeoooooow meeow meoooooow, mew mew meeeoooow mew

general, who obeys the Viceroy, who is the servant of the Empress.
meeeoow, mew meeow mew Meeeeow, mew me mew meeooow me mew Meeeeow.

Thus it is done."
Meow me me meow."




"Would it were so in Afghanistan!" said the chief, "for there
"Meoow me meow me me Meoooooooow!" meow mew meoow, "mew meeow

we obey only our own wills."
me meow meow mew mew meeow."




"And for that reason," said the native officer, twirling his
"Mew mew meow meeeow," meow mew meooow meeeeow, meooooow mew

mustache, "your Amir whom you do not obey must come here and take
meooooow, "meow Meow meow mew me mew meow meow meow meow mew meow

orders from our Viceroy."
meeoow meow mew Meoooow."







                  Parade Song of the Camp Animals
                  Meeeow Meow me mew Meow Meeeoow




                    ELEPHANTS OF THE GUN TEAMS
                    MEEEOOOOW ME MEW MEW MEEOW




 We lent to Alexander the strength of Hercules,
 Me meow me Meeeeeeow mew meeeeeow me Meeoooow,

 The wisdom of our foreheads, the cunning of our knees;
 Mew meooow me mew meeeeeeow, mew meoooow me mew meoow;

 We bowed our necks to service: they ne'er were loosed again,--
 Me meoow mew meoow me meeeeow: meow me'me meow meeoow meoow,--

 Make way there--way for the ten-foot teams
 Meow mew meeow--mew mew mew mew-meow meeow

       Of the Forty-Pounder train!
       Me mew Meoow-Meeooow meeow!




                           GUN BULLOCKS
                           MEW MEEEOOOW




 Those heroes in their harnesses avoid a cannon-ball,
 Meoow meeeow me meoow meoooooow meoow m meooow-meow,

 And what they know of powder upsets them one and all;
 Mew meow meow meow me meeoow meooow meow mew mew mew;

 Then we come into action and tug the guns again--
 Meow me meow meow meooow mew mew mew meow meeow--

 Make way there--way for the twenty yoke
 Meow mew meoow--mew mew mew meooow meow

       Of the Forty-Pounder train!
       Me mew Meeow-Meoooow meeow!




                          CAVALRY HORSES
                          MEEEEOW MEEOOW




 By the brand on my shoulder, the finest of tunes
 Me mew meoow me me meooooow, mew meeoow me meeow

 Is played by the Lancers, Hussars, and Dragoons,
 Me meeoow me mew Meoooow, Meoooow, mew Meeeeeow,

 And it's sweeter than "Stables" or "Water" to me--
 Mew me'm meeooow meow "Meoooow" me "Meeow" me me--

 The Cavalry Canter of "Bonnie Dundee"!
 Mew Meeooow Meeeow me "Meeoow Meeeow"!




 Then feed us and break us and handle and groom,
 Meow meow me mew meoow me mew meeoow mew meeow,

 And give us good riders and plenty of room,
 Mew meow me meow meeeow mew meooow me meow,

 And launch us in column of squadron and see
 Mew meeeow me me meooow me meeeeeow mew mew

 The way of the war-horse to "Bonnie Dundee"!
 Mew mew me mew mew-meeow me "Meeeow Meeeow"!







                          SCREW-GUN MULES
                          MEOOW-MEW MEOOW




 As me and my companions were scrambling up a hill,
 Me me mew me meeoooooow meow meeeeeooow me m meow,

 The path was lost in rolling stones, but we went forward still;
 Mew meow mew meow me meeeoow meooow, mew me meow meeooow meoow;

 For we can wriggle and climb, my lads, and turn up everywhere,
 Mew me mew meeooow mew meoow, me meow, mew meow me meeeooooow,

 Oh, it's our delight on a mountain height, with a leg or two to
 Me, me'm mew meeeoow me m meeeeoow meeoow, meow m mew me mew me

    spare!
    meoow!




 Good luck to every sergeant, then, that lets us pick our road;
 Meow meow me meoow meeeooow, meow, meow meow me meow mew meow;

 Bad luck to all the driver-men that cannot pack a load:
 Mew meow me mew mew meeoow-mew meow meooow meow m meow:

 For we can wriggle and climb, my lads, and turn up everywhere,
 Mew me mew meoooow mew meoow, me meow, mew meow me meeeeeeeow,

 Oh, it's our delight on a mountain height, with a leg or two to
 Me, me'm mew meeeoow me m meeeeeow meooow, meow m mew me mew me

    spare!
    meeow!




                        COMMISSARIAT CAMELS
                        MEEEEOOOOOOW MEOOOW




    We haven't a camelty tune of our own
    Me meeow'm m meeeoow meow me mew mew

    To help us trollop along,
    Me meow me meeeoow meoow,

    But every neck is a hair trombone
    Mew meoow meow me m meow meeeeoow

    (Rtt-ta-ta-ta! is a hair trombone!)
    (Mew-me-me-me! me m meow meeeooow!)

    And this our marching-song:
    Mew meow mew meeeeeow-meow:

    Can't!  Don't!  Shan't!  Won't!
    Mew'm!  Mew'm!  Meow'm!  Mew'm!

    Pass it along the line!
    Meow me meeow mew meow!

    Somebody's pack has slid from his back,
    Meeeooow'm meow mew meow meow mew meow,

    Wish it were only mine!
    Meow me meow meow meow!

    Somebody's load has tipped off in the road--
    Meeeooow'm meow mew meeeow mew me mew meow--

    Cheer for a halt and a row!
    Meoow mew m meow mew m mew!

    Urrr!  Yarrh!  Grr!  Arrh!
    Meow!  Meoow!  Mew!  Meow!

    Somebody's catching it now!
    Meeeeeow'm meeoooow me mew!







                      ALL THE BEASTS TOGETHER
                      MEW MEW MEEOOW MEEEEEOW




    Children of the Camp are we,
    Meeeooow me mew Meow mew me,

    Serving each in his degree;
    Meeooow meow me mew meeeow;

    Children of the yoke and goad,
    Meeeooow me mew meow mew meow,

    Pack and harness, pad and load.
    Meow mew meoooow, mew mew meow.

    See our line across the plain,
    Mew mew meow meooow mew meoow,

    Like a heel-rope bent again,
    Meow m meow-meow meow meeow,

    Reaching, writhing, rolling far,
    Meeeeeow, meooooow, meoooow mew,

    Sweeping all away to war!
    Meooooow mew meow me mew!

    While the men that walk beside,
    Meeow mew mew meow meow meeeow,

    Dusty, silent, heavy-eyed,
    Meeow, meeeow, meoow-meow,

    Cannot tell why we or they
    Meooow meow mew me me meow

    March and suffer day by day.
    Meeow mew meeeow mew me mew.

       Children of the Camp are we,
       Meeoooow me mew Meow mew me,

       Serving each in his degree;
       Meoooow meow me mew meeeow;

       Children of the yoke and goad,
       Meeoooow me mew meow mew meow,

       Pack and harness, pad and load!
       Meow mew meoooow, mew mew meow!










End of the Project Gutenberg Edition of Kipling's Jungle Book
Mew me mew Meeooow Meeooooow Meoooow me Meoooow'm Meeoow Meow









