
The Project Gutenberg EBook of Cats, by W. Gordon Stables
Mew Meoooow Meoooooow MEoow me Meow, me M. Meeeow Meeooow




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Meow mEeow me mew mew mew me meooow meooooow me me meow mew meow

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
meooow me meeeeeeoooow meooooooow.  Mew mew meow me, meow me meow me

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
me-mew me meoow mew meoow me mew Meeeoow Meoooooow Meeeeow meeeooow

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
meow meow mEeow me meooow me mew.meoooooow.mew







Title: Cats
Meoow: Meow

       Their Points and Characteristics, with Curiosities of Cat
       Meeow Meeoow mew Meeeeeoooooooow, meow Meeeoooooow me Mew

       Life, and a Chapter on Feline Ailments
       Meow, mew m Meeeoow me Meeoow Meeeeeow




Author: W. Gordon Stables
Meeeow: M. Meeeow Meeooow




Release Date: August 9, 2013 [EBook #43429]
Meeooow Meow: Meeeow m, meow [MEeow #meoow]




Language: English
Meeeeeow: Meeeoow




Character set encoding: UTF-8
Meeooooow mew meeeeoow: MEW-m




*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CATS ***
*** MEEOW ME MEOW MEEEOOW MEEEEEEOW MEOOW MEOW ***













Produced by The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
Meooooow me Mew Meeeow Meeeeeoooow Meeeeeeeeeow Meow me

http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
meow://mew.meow.mew (Meow meow mew meooooow meow meeoow

generously made available by The Internet Archive.)
meeeooooow meow meoooooow me Mew Meeeooow Meeooow.)




























CATS: Their Points and Characteristics.
MEOW: Meoow Meeoow mew Meeeeeeeeeeooow.













[Illustration: “SHIPMATES.”]
[Meeoooooooow: “MEEEEEEOW.”]













  “CATS:”
  “MEOW:”




  THEIR POINTS AND CHARACTERISTICS,
  MEEOW MEEEOW MEW MEEEEEEOOOOOOOW,

  WITH CURIOSITIES OF CAT LIFE,
  MEOW MEOOOOOOOOW ME MEW MEOW,

  AND A CHAPTER ON FELINE AILMENTS.
  MEW M MEOOOOW ME MEEOOW MEEOOOOW.







  BY _W. GORDON STABLES, M.D., C.M., R.N._,
  ME ME. MEOOOW MEOOOOW, M.M., M.M., M.M.m,

  AUTHOR OF
  MEOOOW ME

  “MEDICAL LIFE IN THE NAVY,” “WILD ADVENTURES IN THE FAR NORTH,”
  “MEEOOOW MEOW ME MEW MEOW,” “MEOW MEEEEOOOOW ME MEW MEW MEOOW,”

  THE “NEWFOUNDLAND AND WATCH DOG,” IN WEBB’S BOOK ON DOGS,
  MEW “MEEEEEEEOOOW MEW MEOOW MEW,” ME MEOW’M MEOW ME MEOW,

  ETC. ETC.
  MEW. MEW.







  LONDON: DEAN & SON,
  MEEOOW: MEOW & MEW,

  ST. DUNSTAN’S BUILDINGS, 160A, FLEET STREET, E.C.
  ME. MEEOOOW’M MEEEEEOOW, MEOW, MEEOW MEOOOW, M.M.













CONTENTS.
MEEEOOOW.







  VOL. I.
  MEW. M.




  CHAPTER.                                                PAGE
  MEEEEOW.                                                MEOW




      I. APOLOGETIC                                          1
      M. MEEEEOOOOW                                          m




     II. PUSSY ON HER NATIVE HEARTH                          3
     ME. MEEOW ME MEW MEEEOW MEOOOW                          m




    III. PUSSY’S LOVE OF CHILDREN                           26
    MEW. MEEOW’M MEOW ME MEEEEEOW                           me




     IV. PUSSY “POLL”                                       36
     ME. MEOOW “MEOW”                                       me




      V. SAGACITY OF CATS                                   44
      M. MEOOOOOW ME MEOW                                   me




     VI. A CAT THAT KEEPS THE SABBATH                       61
     ME. M MEW MEOW MEOOW MEW MEEOOOW                       me




    VII. HONEST CATS                                        64
    MEW. MEOOOW MEOW                                        me




   VIII. THE PLOUGHMAN’S “MYSIE”                            70
   MEOW. MEW MEEEEEOOW’M “MEOOW”                            me




     IX. TENACITY OF LIFE IN CATS                           74
     ME. MEEEOOOW ME MEOW ME MEOW                           me




      X. NOMADISM IN CATS                                   87
      M. MEEOOOOW ME MEOW                                   me




     XI. “IS CATS TO BE TRUSTED?”                           94
     ME. “ME MEOW ME ME MEEEOOW?”                           me




    XII. PUSSY AS A MOTHER                                 109
    MEW. MEEOW ME M MEOOOW                                 mew




   XIII. HOME TIES AND AFFECTIONS                          125
   MEOW. MEOW MEOW MEW MEEEEEEEOW                          mew




    XIV. FISHING EXPLOITS                                  141
    MEW. MEEEEOW MEEOOOOW                                  mew




     XV. THE ADVENTURES OF BLINKS                          151
     ME. MEW MEEEEEEEOW ME MEEEOW                          mew




    XVI. HUNTING EXPLOITS                                  190
    MEW. MEEEOOW MEEEEEOW                                  mew




   XVII. COCK-JOCK AND THE CAT                             200
   MEOW. MEOW-MEOW MEW MEW MEW                             mew




  XVIII. NURSING VAGARIES                                  209
  MEEOW. MEEEOOW MEEEOOOW                                  mew




    XIX. PUSSY’S PLAYMATES                                 221
    MEW. MEOOW’M MEOOOOOOW                                 mew




     XX. PUSSY AND THE HARE                                230
     ME. MEOOW MEW MEW MEOW                                mew




    XXI. THE MILLER’S FRIEND. A TALE                       235
    MEW. MEW MEOOOW’M MEEEOW. M MEOW                       mew




  ADDENDA. CONTAINING THE NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF THE
  MEEEEOW. MEEOOOOOOW MEW MEEOW MEW MEEEOOOOW ME MEW

           VOUCHERS FOR THE AUTHENTICITY OF THE
           MEEEEEOW MEW MEW MEOOOOOOOOOW ME MEW

           ANECDOTES                                       267
           MEEEOOOOW                                       mew







  VOL. II.
  MEW. ME.




  CHAPTER.                                                PAGE
  MEOOOOW.                                                MEOW




     I. ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF THE DOMESTIC CAT           278
     M. MEOOOW MEW MEEEOOOOW ME MEW MEOOOOOW MEW           mew




    II. CLASSIFICATION AND POINTS                          285
    ME. MEOOOOOOOOOOOW MEW MEEEOW                          mew




   III. PUSSY’S PATIENCE AND CLEANLINESS                   307
   MEW. MEOOW’M MEEEEEOW MEW MEEEEEEEEOW                   mew




    IV. TRICKS AND TRAINING                                319
    ME. MEOOOW MEW MEOOOOOW                                mew




     V. CRUELTY TO CATS                                    329
     M. MEEEEOW ME MEOW                                    mew




    VI. PARLIAMENTARY PROTECTION FOR THE DOMESTIC CAT      356
    ME. MEEEEEOOOOOOW MEOOOOOOOW MEW MEW MEEEEEOW MEW      mew




   VII. FELINE AILMENTS                                    366
   MEW. MEEOOW MEEEOOOW                                    mew




  VIII. ODDS AND ENDS                                      387
  MEOW. MEOW MEW MEOW                                      mew




    IX. THE TWO “MUFFIES.” A TALE                          410
    ME. MEW MEW “MEEEOOW.” M MEOW                          mew




     X. BLACK TOM, THE SKIPPER’S IMP. A TALE               440
     M. MEEOW MEW, MEW MEOOOOW’M MEW. M MEOW               mew




  ADDENDA. CONTAINING THE NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF THE
  MEOOOOW. MEEEEEOOOW MEW MEEOW MEW MEEEEEEOW ME MEW

           VOUCHERS FOR THE AUTHENTICITY OF THE
           MEEEEEOW MEW MEW MEEEEEOOOOOW ME MEW

           ANECDOTES                                       479
           MEEEEEEOW                                       mew













SPRATT’S PATENT
MEOOOW’M MEEOOW




CAT FOOD.
MEW MEOW.




[Illustration: TRADE MARK.]
[Meeeeeooooow: MEEOW MEOW.]




It has long been considered that the food given to that useful domestic
Me mew meow meow meeeeeeeow meow mew meow meeow me meow meeoow meeeooow

favourite, the CAT, is the sole cause of all the diseases it suffers from;
meeeeooow, mew MEW, me mew meow meoow me mew mew meeoooow me meeeeow meow;

nearly all Cats in towns are fed on boiled horseflesh, in many cases
meeeow mew Meow me meoow mew mew me meeeow meeoooooow, me meow meeow

diseased and conveying disease.
meeoooow mew meeeeeoow meeeeow.




This Food is introduced to entirely supersede the present unwholesome
Meow Meow me meeeeoooow me meeeooow meeeoooow mew meeooow meeeeeeeeow

practice; it is made from pure fresh beef and other sound materials, not
meeeooow; me me meow meow meow meeow meow mew meeow meoow meeeeooow, mew

from horseflesh or other deleterious substances. It will be found the
meow meeeooooow me meeow meeeeeeeeow meeoooooow. Me meow me meoow mew

cheapest food to preserve the health and invigorate the constitution,
meeeeoow meow me meeoooow mew meooow mew meeeeoooow mew meeeeeeeeeow,

prolong the existence, and extend the usefulness, gentleness, and
meeooow mew meoooooow, mew meeeow mew meeeeeeeow, meooooooow, mew

cleanliness of the Cat.
meeeeeeooow me mew Mew.




_Sold in 1d. Packets only. Each Packet contains sufficient to feed a Cat
mEoow me me. Meeeoow meow. Meow Meooow meooooow meeoooooow me meow m Mew

for two days. The wrapper of every Packet is the same in colour, and bears
mew mew meow. Mew meoooow me meeow Meeeow me mew meow me meooow, mew meoow

the Trade Mark as above, and the name of the Patentee, and no other Packet
mew Meeow Meow me meoow, mew mew meow me mew Meeoooow, mew me meeow Meeeow

is genuine._
me meeooow.m







DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
MEEEEEEOOW MEW MEW.




Mix the food with a little milk or water, making it crumbly moist, not
Mew mew meow meow m meeoow meow me meoow, meooow me meeeeow meoow, mew

sloppy.
meooow.




SPRATT’S PATENT MEAT FIBRINE DOG CAKES, 22_s._ per cwt., Carriage Paid.
MEEEOW’M MEEOOW MEOW MEEEOOW MEW MEEOW, meow.m mew mew., Meooooow Meow.




SPRATT’S PATENT POULTRY FOOD, 22_s._ per cwt., Carriage Paid.
MEEEOW’M MEEOOW MEEEEOW MEOW, meow.m mew mew., Meeoooow Meow.




SPRATT’S PATENT GRANULATED PRAIRIE MEAT CRISSEL, 28_s._ per cwt., Carriage
MEEOOW’M MEOOOW MEEEEOOOOW MEEEOOW MEOW MEEEEOW, meow.m mew mew., Meooooow

Paid.
Meow.




_Address--SPRATT’S PATENT_,
mEeeeeow--MEOOOW’M MEOOOOW,




HENRY STREET, BERMONDSEY STREET, TOOLEY STREET, S.E.
MEOOW MEEEOW, MEEEEEEEOW MEOOOW, MEOOOW MEOOOW, M.M.













  TO
  ME

  LADY MILDRED BERESFORD-HOPE,
  MEOW MEOOOOW MEEEEEEOW-MEOW,

  AND
  MEW

  LADY DOROTHY NEVILL,
  MEOW MEEEEOW MEOOOW,

  THIS WORK
  MEOW MEOW

  Is dedicated
  Me meeooooow

  With feelings of regard and esteem,
  Meow meooooow me meeoow mew meeoow,

  BY
  ME

  THE AUTHOR.
  MEW MEEEOW.













  CAT MEDICINE CHEST,
  MEW MEEOOOOW MEOOW,




  _Beautifully fitted up with everything necessary
  mEeeeeeeeoow meooow me meow meeeeeooow meeeeooow

  to keep Pussy in Health, or to Cure her when Ill._
  me meow Meeow me Meeoow, me me Meow mew meow Mew.m




  The Medicines are done up in a new form, now
  Mew Meeeeooow mew meow me me m mew meow, mew

  introduced for the first time, are easy to
  meeoooooow mew mew meeow meow, mew meow me

  administer, and do not soil the fur.
  meeeeoooow, mew me mew meow mew mew.




  A NICELY FINISHED ARTICLE,
  M MEOOOW MEEOOOOW MEEEOOW,




  HIGHLY SUITABLE FOR A PRESENT.
  MEOOOW MEEEOOOW MEW M MEEEEOW.




  PRICE, with Synopsis of Diseases of Cats and their
  MEEOW, meow Meeoooow me Meeeooow me Meow mew meeow

  Treatment, 21s.
  Meeeeeoow, mew.




  LONDON: DEAN & SON,
  MEEEOW: MEOW & MEW,

  FACTORS, PUBLISHERS,
  MEEEOOW, MEEEEEOOOW,




  Valentine, Birthday, Christmas, and Easter Card
  Meeeoooow, Meeeeeow, Meoooooow, mew Meeeow Meow

  Manufacturers,
  Meeeeeeeeooow,




  ST. DUNSTAN’S BUILDINGS, 160A, FLEET STREET.
  ME. MEEEOOW’M MEEEEEEOW, MEOW, MEOOW MEOOOW.













CATS.
MEOW.













CHAPTER I.
MEEOOOW M.




[_See Note A, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m]




APOLOGETIC.
MEEEEEOOOW.







“If ye mane to write a preface to your book, sure you must put it in the
“Me me meow me meeow m meoooow me meow meow, meow mew meow mew me me mew

end entoirely.”
mew meeeeooow.”




Such was the advice an Irish friend gave me, when I talked of an
Meow mew mew meeoow me Meoow meooow meow me, meow M meeeow me me

introductory chapter to the present work on cats. I think it was a good
meooooooooow meeooow me mew meeeoow meow me meow. M meoow me mew m meow

one. Whether it be owing to our style of living now-a-days, which tends
mew. Meeeoow me me meeow me mew meeow me meeeow mew-m-meow, meoow meeow

more to the development of brain than muscle; or whether it be, as Darwin
meow me mew meeeoooooow me meeow meow meeoow; me meeeoow me me, me Meeeow

says, that we really are descended from the ape, and, as the years roll
meow, meow me meooow mew meoooooow meow mew mew, mew, me mew meoow meow

on, are losing that essentially animal virtue--patience; certainly it is
me, mew meooow meow meeeeooooow meeeow meeeow--meeoooow; meeeeooow me me

true that we cannot tolerate prefaces, preludes, and long graces before
meow meow me meooow meeeeoow meeeooow, meeeooow, mew meow meooow meooow

meat, as our grandfathers did. A preface, like Curaçoa--and--B, before
meow, me mew meeeeeeeooow mew. M meeeoow, meow Meeooow--mew--M, meeeow

dinner, ought to be short and sweet: something merely to give an edge to
meooow, meoow me me meoow mew meoow: meeeoooow meooow me meow me meow me

appetite, or it had as well be put in the “end entoirely,” or better
meeeeeow, me me mew me meow me mew me mew “mew meeeeooow,” me meeeow

still, in the fire.
meoow, me mew meow.




I presume, then, the reader is fond of the domestic cat; if only for the
M meeeeow, meow, mew meooow me meow me mew meooooow mew; me meow mew mew

simple reason that God made it. Yes; God made it, and man mars it. Pussy
meooow meooow meow Mew meow me. Mew; Mew meow me, mew mew meow me. Meoow

is an ill-used, much persecuted, little understood, and greatly slandered
me me mew-meow, meow meeeeeeeow, meeeow meeeeeooow, mew meoooow meeooooow

animal. It is with the view, therefore, of gaining for our little fireside
meooow. Me me meow mew meow, meeooooow, me meeeoow mew mew meooow meeeeeow

friend a greater meed of justice than she has hitherto obtained, of
meooow m meeeeow meow me meeeoow meow mew mew meeeeoow meeeeeow, me

removing the ban under which she mostly lives, and making her life a more
meeeooow mew mew meeow meeow mew meeoow meoow, mew meeeow mew meow m meow

pleasant and happy one, that the following pages are written; and I shall
meeeooow mew meeow mew, meow mew meeooooow meeow mew meoooow; mew M meeow

deem it a blessing if I am _in any way_ successful. I have tried to paint
meow me m meooooow me M me mew mew meow meeeeoooow. M meow meoow me meeow

pussy just as she is, without the aid of “putty and varnish;” and I have
meeow meow me mew me, meeooow mew mew me “meoow mew meeeoow;” mew M meow

been at no small pains to prove the authenticity of the various anecdotes,
meow me me meoow meeow me meeow mew meooooooooow me mew meeooow meeeeeeow,

and can assure the reader that they are all _strictly true_.
mew mew meeoow mew meeoow meow meow mew mew meeeoooow meeow.













CHAPTER II.
MEOOOOW ME.




[_See Note B, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m]




PUSSY ON HER NATIVE HEARTH.
MEOOW ME MEW MEEEOW MEEOOW.







“It wouldn’t have surprised me a bit, doctor,” said my gallant captain to
“Me meooow’m meow meeooooow me m mew, meeeow,” meow me meoooow meeeoow me

me, on the quarter-deck of the saucy _Pen-gun_,--“It wouldn’t have
me, me mew meeooow-meow me mew meoow mEow-meow,--“Me meooow’m meow

surprised me a bit, if they had sent you on board, minus the head. A nice
meeeoooow me m mew, me meow mew meow mew me meoow, meeow mew meow. M meow

thing that would have been, with so many hands sick.”
meoow meow meeow meow meow, meow me meow meoow meow.”




“And rather unconvenient for me,” I added, stroking my neck.
“Mew meeeow meeeooooooow mew me,” M meoow, meeeooow me meow.




I had been explaining to the gentleman, that my reason for not being off
M mew meow meeeeeooow me mew meeeeeeow, meow me meooow mew mew meeow mew

the night before, was my finding myself on the desert side of the gates of
mew meoow meooow, mew me meeooow meeeow me mew meooow meow me mew meeow me

Aden after sun-down. A strange motley cut-throat band I had found myself
Meow meoow mew-meow. M meeeoow meeeow mew-meooow meow M mew meeow meooow

among, too. Wild Somalis, half-caste Indian Jews, Bedouin Arabs, and burly
meeow, mew. Meow Meeeoow, meow-meeow Meeoow Meow, Meeooow Meeow, mew meoow

Persian merchants, all armed with sword and spear and shield, and long
Meeeoow meeooooow, mew meeow meow meeow mew meeow mew meooow, mew meow

rifles that, judging by their build, seemed made to shoot round corners.
meooow meow, meeeoow me meoow meoow, meeeow meow me meeow meoow meeooow.

Strings of camels lay on the ground; and round each camp-fire squatted
Meeooow me meeeow mew me mew meeoow; mew meoow meow meow-meow meeeeeow

these swarthy sons of the desert, engaged in talking, eating, smoking, or
meeow meeeoow meow me mew meeoow, meoooow me meeeoow, meeeow, meeeoow, me

quarrelling, as the case might be. Unless at Falkirk tryst, I had never
meeeeeoooow, me mew meow meoow me. Meeeow me Meeooow meoow, M mew meoow

been among such a parcel of rogues in my life. I myself was armed to the
meow meoow meow m meeoow me meooow me me meow. M meeoow mew meoow me mew

teeth: that is, I had nothing but my tongue wherewith to defend myself. I
meeow: meow me, M mew meeeeow mew me meooow meeeoooow me meooow meeoow. M

could not help a feeling of insecurity taking possession of me; there
meeow mew meow m meeooow me meeeooooow meeoow meeeeoooow me me; meeow

seemed to be a screw that wanted tightening somewhere about my neck. Yet I
meooow me me m meeow meow meeoow meeeeoooow meoooooow meeow me meow. Mew M

do not now repent having spent that night in the desert, as it has
me mew mew meeoow meeoow meoow meow meoow me mew meeeow, me me mew

afforded me the opportunity of settling that long-disputed question--the
meeeeoow me mew meeeeeeooow me meeeeoow meow meow-meeoooow meooooow--mew

origin of the domestic cat.
meeeow me mew meeoooow mew.




Some have searched Egyptian annals for the origin of their pet, some
Meow meow meeeeeow Meeeeeow meeoow mew mew meeeow me meoow mew, meow

Persian, and some assert they can trace its descent from the days of Noah.
Meeeoow, mew meow meeoow meow mew meoow mew meeooow meow mew meow me Meow.

I can go a long way beyond that. It is difficult to get over the flood,
M mew me m meow mew meeoow meow. Me me meoooooow me mew meow mew meoow,

though; but I suppose my typical cat belonged to some one of the McPherson
meeeow; mew M meeooow me meeeeow mew meooooow me meow mew me mew MeEeeooow

clan. McPhlail was telling McPherson, that he could trace his genealogy
meow. MeEoooow mew meeeeow MeEooooow, meow me meeow meeow mew meeeeooow

from the days of Noah.
meow mew meow me Meow.




“And mine,” said the rival clansman, “from nine hundred years before
“Mew meow,” meow mew meeow meooooow, “meow meow meoooow meoow meooow

that.”
meow.”




“But the flood, you know?” hinted the McPhlail.
“Mew mew meoow, mew meow?” meooow mew MeEeeoow.




“And did you ever hear of a Phairson that hadn’t a boat of his own?” was
“Mew mew mew meow meow me m Meeeeeow meow meow’m m meow me mew mew?” mew

the indignant retort.
mew meeeoooow meooow.




In the midst of a group of young Arabs, was one that attracted my special
Me mew meeow me m meeow me meoow Meeow, mew mew meow meeeoooow me meeeoow

attention. He was an old man who looked, with his snow-white beard, his
meeeeooow. Me mew me mew mew mew meeoow, meow mew meow-meeow meeow, mew

turban and robes, as venerable as one of Doré’s patriarchs. In sonorous
meeoow mew meeow, me meoooooow me mew me Meow’m meeeeeeeow. Me meeeooow

tones, in his own noble language, he was reading from a book in his lap,
meeow, me mew mew meoow meeoooow, me mew meeeoow meow m meow me mew mew,

while one arm was coiled lovingly round a beautiful long-haired cat.
meeow mew mew mew meooow meeeooow meeow m meeooooow meow-meooow mew.

Beside this man I threw myself down. The fierceness of his first glance,
Meeoow meow mew M meeow meeeow meow. Mew meeeeeooow me mew meoow meeoow,

which seemed to resent my intrusion, melted into a smile as sweet as a
meeow meeeow me meeoow me meeeoooow, meooow meow m meoow me meoow me m

woman’s, when I began to stroke and admire his cat. Just the same story
meoow’m, meow M meoow me meeeow mew meooow mew mew. Meow mew meow meoow

all the world over,--praise a man’s pet and he’ll do anything for you;
mew mew meoow meow,--meooow m mew’m mew mew me’me me meooooow mew mew;

fight for you, or even lend you money. That Arab shared his supper with
meoow mew mew, me meow meow mew meeow. Meow Meow meeoow mew meooow meow

me.
me.




“Ah! my son,” he said, “more than my goods, more than my horse, I love my
“Me! me mew,” me meow, “meow meow me meeow, meow meow me meoow, M meow me

cat. She comforts me. More than the smoke she soothes me. Allah is great
mew. Mew meeeooow me. Meow meow mew meeow mew meeeoow me. Meoow me meoow

and good; when our first mother and father went out into the mighty desert
mew meow; meow mew meoow meeeow mew meeeow meow mew meow mew meeoow meooow

alone, He gave them two friends to defend and comfort them--the dog and
meoow, Me meow meow mew meoooow me meeoow mew meeooow meow--mew mew mew

the cat. In the body of the cat He placed the spirit of a gentle woman; in
mew mew. Me mew meow me mew mew Me meeoow mew meooow me m meeeow meoow; me

the dog the soul of a brave man. It is true, my son; the book hath it.”
mew mew mew meow me m meeow mew. Me me meow, me mew; mew meow meow me.”




After this I remained for some time speculatively silent.
Meeow meow M meeeooow mew meow meow meeeeeeeeeoow meeoow.




The old man’s story may be taken--according to taste--with or without a
Mew mew mew’m meeow mew me meeow--meoooooow me meoow--meow me meeeeow m

grain of salt; but we must admit it is as good a way of accounting for
meoow me meow; mew me meow meoow me me me meow m mew me meeoooooow mew

domestic pussy’s origin as any other.
meeeeoow meeow’m meooow me mew meoow.




There really is, moreover, a great deal of the woman’s nature in the cat.
Meoow meeeow me, meeoooow, m meeow meow me mew meeow’m meeoow me mew mew.

Like a woman, pussy prefers a settled home to leading a roving life. Like
Meow m meoow, meeow meoooow m meeooow meow me meeeoow m meeeow meow. Meow

a true woman, she is fond of fireside comforts. Then she is so gentle in
m meow meeow, mew me meow me meeeooow meeeooow. Meow mew me me meeeow me

all her ways, so kind, so loving, and so forgiving. On your return from
mew mew meow, me meow, me meeeow, mew me meeooooow. Me meow meooow meow

business, the very look of her honest face, as she sits purring on the
meeeooow, mew meow meow me mew meeoow meow, me mew meow meeooow me mew

hearth-rug, with the pleasant adjuncts of a bright fire and hissing
meeeow-mew, meow mew meooooow meeeooow me m meeoow meow mew meeeoow

tea-urn, tends to make you forget all the cares of the day. When you are
mew-mew, meoow me meow mew meooow mew mew meeow me mew mew. Meow mew mew

dull and lonely, how often does her “punky humour,” her mirth-provoking
meow mew meooow, mew meoow meow mew “meeow meooow,” mew meoow-meeooooow

attitudes and capers banish ennui. And if you are ill, how carefully she
meeeeeoow mew meooow meeeow meeow. Mew me mew mew mew, mew meeeeooow mew

will watch by your bedside and keep you company. How her low song will
meow meoow me meow meeeeow mew meow mew meoooow. Mew mew mew meow meow

lull you, her soft caresses soothe you, giving you more real consolation
meow mew, mew meow meeeeeow meeeow mew, meeeow mew meow meow meeeoooooow

from the looks of concern exhibited on her loving little face, than any
meow mew meoow me meeeoow meeeoooow me mew meeoow meeoow meow, meow mew

language could convey.
meeeeeow meoow meeeow.




On the other hand, like a woman, she is prying and curious. A locked
Me mew meeow meow, meow m meoow, mew me meeeow mew meoooow. M meeoow

cupboard is often a greater source of care and thought to pussy, than the
meooooow me meoow m meeeoow meooow me meow mew meoooow me meeow, meow mew

secret chamber was to the wife of Blue Beard. I’m sure it is only because
meooow meeeeow mew me mew meow me Meow Meeow. M’m meow me me meow meeeoow

she cannot read that she refrains from opening your letters of a morning,
mew meeeow meow meow mew meeeeoow meow meeooow meow meeeeow me m meoooow,

and only because she cannot speak that she keeps a secret. Like a woman,
mew meow meoooow mew meooow meeow meow mew meoow m meooow. Meow m meoow,

too, she dearly loves a gossip, and will have it too, even if it be by
mew, mew meeeow meoow m meeeow, mew meow meow me mew, meow me me me me

night on the tiles, at the risk of keeping the neighbours awake. Oh! I’m
meoow me mew meoow, me mew meow me meeooow mew meeoooooow meoow. Me! M’m

far from sure that the Arab isn’t right, after all.
mew meow meow meow mew Meow mew’m meoow, meoow mew.




Pussy, from the very day she opens her wondering eyes and stares vacantly
Meoow, meow mew meow mew mew meeow mew meeeeeeow meow mew meooow meeeeoow

around her, becomes an object worthy of study and observation. Indeed,
meooow mew, meeooow me meeoow meeoow me meeow mew meeeeeoooow. Meeoow,

kittens, even before their eyes are opened, will know your voice or hand,
meeeeow, meow meooow meoow meow mew meeeow, meow meow meow meoow me meow,

and spit at a stranger’s. The first year of pussy’s existence is certainly
mew meow me m meeeeoow’m. Mew meeow meow me meoow’m meeeeeeow me meeeeeoow

the happiest. No creature in the world is so fond of fun and mischief as a
mew meooooow. Me meeeeeow me mew meeow me me meow me mew mew meeoooow me m

kitten. Everything that moves or is movable, from its mother’s tail to the
meeeow. Meeeeoooow meow meoow me me meeooow, meow mew meeeow’m meow me mew

table-cloth, must minister to its craze for a romp; but what pen could
meoow-meoow, meow meeeooow me mew meeow mew m meow; mew meow mew meeow

describe its intense joy, its pride and self-satisfaction, when, for the
meooooow mew meeeoow mew, mew meeow mew meow-meeeeeeeeeow, meow, mew mew

first time it has caught a real live mouse? This is as much an episode in
meeow meow me mew meeeow m meow meow meoow? Meow me me meow me meeeoow me

the life of a kitten, as her first ball is to a young lady just out. Nor
mew meow me m meooow, me mew meeow meow me me m meeow meow meow mew. Mew

do well-trained and properly-fed cats ever lose this innate sense of fun,
me meow-meeeoow mew meeeooow-mew meow meow meow meow meeoow meoow me mew,

and love of the ridiculous. They lose their teeth first. I have seen
mew meow me mew meeeooooow. Meow meow meoow meoow meoow. M meow meow

demure old cats, of respectable matronly aspect,--cats that ought to have
meeoow mew meow, me meeooooooow meeeeoow meeoow,--meow meow meeow me meow

known better,--leave their kittens when only a day old, and gambol
meoow meeeow,--meeow meoow meeeeow meow meow m mew mew, mew meeoow

round the room after a cork till tired and giddy.
meoow mew meow meoow m meow meow meoow mew meeow.




[Illustration: BLACK and WHITE.
[Meeeeeeeooow: MEEOW mew MEOOW.




First Prize--Owned by J. BRADDEN, ESQ.]
Meeow Meoow--Meeow me M. MEEEEOW, MEW.]




[Illustration: WILD CAT (Half-Bred).
[Meeeeeeeeeow: MEOW MEW (Meow-Meow).




First Prize--Owned by A. H. SEAGER, ESQ.]
Meeow Meeow--Meoow me M. M. MEEOOW, MEW.]




Cats of the right sort never fail to bring their kittens up in the way
Meow me mew meeow meow meoow meow me meoow meeow meeooow me me mew mew

they should go, and soon succeed in teaching them all they know
meow meeeow me, mew meow meoooow me meeeooow meow mew meow meow

themselves. They will bring in living mice for them, and always take more
meeeooooow. Meow meow meoow me meooow meow mew meow, mew meeoow meow meow

pride in the best warrior-kitten than in the others. They will also
meoow me mew meow meeeoow-meeeow meow me mew meeeow. Meow meow meow

inculcate the doctrine of cleanliness in their kits, so that the carpet
meoooooow mew meooooow me meeeeeeooow me meeow meow, me meow mew meeeow

shall never be wet. I have often been amused at seeing my own cat bringing
meeow meoow me mew. M meow meeow meow meeoow me meeoow me mew mew meeeeoow

kitten after kitten to the sand-box, and showing it how to use it, in
meeoow meoow meooow me mew meow-mew, mew meeooow me mew me mew me, me

action explaining to them what it was there for. When a little older, she
meeeow meeeeeooow me meow meow me mew meoow mew. Meow m meeoow meeow, mew

entices them out to the garden.
meoooow meow mew me mew meooow.




Cats can easily be taught to be polite and well-mannered. It depends upon
Meow mew meeeow me meeeow me me meeeow mew meow-meooooow. Me meoooow meow

yourself, whether you allow your favourite to sit either on your shoulder
meooooow, meeeeow mew meoow meow meeeeooow me mew meooow me meow meooooow

or on the table at meal-times, or to wait demurely on the hearth till you
me me mew meoow me meow-meoow, me me meow meooooow me mew meeeow meow mew

have finished. In any case, her appetite should never get the better of
meow meeoooow. Me mew meow, mew meeeeeow meooow meoow mew mew meeeow me

her good manners.
mew meow meoooow.




“We always teach our cats,” writes a lady to me, “to wait patiently while
“Me meeoow meeow mew meow,” meooow m meow me me, “me meow meeeeooow meeow

the family are at their meals, after which they are served. Although we
mew meeeow mew me meoow meoow, meeow meoow meow mew meooow. Meooooow me

never keep a dish for them standing in a corner, as some people do, yet we
meeow meow m meow mew meow meeeeoow me m meooow, me meow meooow me, mew me

never had a cat-thief. Our Tom and Topsy used to sit on a chair beside my
meoow mew m mew-meeow. Mew Mew mew Meoow meow me mew me m meeow meooow me

brother, near the table, with only their heads under the level of it. They
meeooow, meow mew meeow, meow meow meeow meeow meeow mew meoow me me. Meow

would peep up occasionally to see if the meal were nearly over; but on
meeow meow me meooooooooow me mew me mew meow meow meeeow meow; mew me

being reminded that their time had not come, they would immediately close
meeow meeeooow meow meeow meow mew mew meow, meow meeow meeeeooooow meoow

their eyes and feign to be asleep.
meeow meow mew meeow me me meooow.




“Poor old Tom knew the time my brother came in from business, and if five
“Meow mew Mew meow mew meow me meeeoow meow me meow meeeooow, mew me meow

or ten minutes past his time, he would go to the door and listen, then
me mew meeeeow meow mew meow, me meeow me me mew meow mew meooow, meow

come back to the fireside showing every symptom of impatience and anxiety.
meow meow me mew meooooow meeeoow meoow meeeeow me meeoooooow mew meoooow.

He knew the footsteps of every member of the family, and would start up,
Me meow mew meoooooow me meoow meeeow me mew meeeow, mew meeow meeow me,

before the human ear could detect a sound, and hasten to the door to
meooow mew meeow mew meeow meeoow m meoow, mew meeoow me mew meow me

welcome the comer. He knew the knock of people who were frequent visitors,
meeeeow mew meeow. Me meow mew meeow me meooow mew meow meeeeeow meeeooow,

and would greet the knock of a stranger with an angry growl.
mew meeow meeow mew meoow me m meooooow meow me meoow meeow.




“Tom would never eat a mouse until he had shown it to some member of the
“Mew meoow meoow mew m meeow meoow me mew meeow me me meow meooow me mew

family, and been requested to eat it; and although brought up in a country
meeeow, mew meow meeeeeoow me mew me; mew meeoooow meeeeow me me m meeeeow

village, made himself perfectly at home in Glasgow, although living on the
meoooow, meow meeeeow meeeoooow me meow me Meeooow, meeeooow meeeow me mew

third floor. But poor faithful fellow, after sticking to us through all
meoow meoow. Mew meow meeeeoow meeoow, meeow meeeooow me me meeeeow mew

the varied changes of fourteen years, one wintry morning--he had been out
mew meeoow meeeeow me meeoooow meeow, mew meeeow meeeoow--me mew meow mew

all night--when I drew up the window to call him, he answered me with such
mew meeow--meow M meow me mew meooow me meow mew, me meeeeoow me meow meow

a plaintive voice, that I at once hastened down to see what was the
m meoooooow meeow, meow M me meow meeeeeow meow me mew meow mew mew

matter. He was lying helpless and bleeding among the snow, with one leg
meeoow. Me mew meeow meeeeeow mew meooooow meeow mew meow, meow mew mew

broken. He died.”
meeeow. Me meow.”




Cats will often attach themselves to some one member of a family in
Meow meow meoow meeeow meooooooow me meow mew meeeow me m meeoow me

preference to all others. They are as a rule more fond of children than
meeeeoooow me mew meeoow. Meow mew me m meow meow meow me meeoooow meow

grown-up people, and usually lavish more affection on a woman than a man.
meoow-me meeeow, mew meoooow meooow meow meeeeeeow me m meoow meow m mew.

They have particular tastes too, as regards some portions of the house in
Meow meow meeeeoooow meeoow mew, me meeeoow meow meeeeoow me mew meoow me

which they reside, often selecting some room or corner of a room which
meoow meow meeoow, meeow meeeeooow meow meow me meeeow me m meow meoow

they make their “sanctum sanctorum.”
meow meow meoow “meeooow meeeeeeow.”




Talking of her cats, a lady correspondent says:--“Toby’s successor was a
Meeooow me mew meow, m meow meeeeeeeoooow meow:--“Meow’m meeeeeeow mew m

black and white kitten we called Jenny. Jenny was considered my father’s
meoow mew meoow meooow me meeeow Meoow. Meeow mew meeeeeeeow me meeoow’m

cat, as she followed him and no one else. Our house and that of an aunt
mew, me mew meeeeoow mew mew me mew meow. Mew meeow mew meow me me meow

were near to each other, and on Sabbath mornings it was my father’s
meow meow me meow meeow, mew me Meeeoow meeeeeow me mew me meeeow’m

invariable custom to walk in the garden, closely followed by Jenny,
meeeooooow meooow me meow me mew meooow, meoooow meeeeoow me Meoow,

afterwards going in to visit his sister before going to church. Jenny
meooooooow meeow me me meoow mew meeeow meeoow meoow me meeoow. Meoow

enjoyed those visits amazingly; every one was so fond of her, and she was
meoooow meoow meooow meeeeeeow; meoow mew mew me meow me mew, mew mew mew

so much admired, that she began to pay them visits of her own accord upon
me meow meeeeow, meow mew meeow me mew meow meooow me mew mew meeeow meow

weekdays. I am sorry to say that Jenny eventually abused the hospitality
meeoooow. M me meeow me mew meow Meoow meooooooow meeeow mew meeeoooooow

thus held out to her. For, as time wore on, pussy had, unknown to us, been
meow meow mew me mew. Mew, me meow meow me, meeow mew, meeeeow me me, meow

making her own private arrangements for an event of great interest which
meeeow mew mew meeeoow meeeeeeeeoow mew me meeow me meeow meooooow meoow

was to occur before very long. And this is how it was discovered when it
mew me meoow meeeow meow meow. Mew meow me mew me mew meeeeeeoow meow me

did come off. Some ladies had been paying my aunt a visit, and the
mew meow mew. Meow meeoow mew meow meooow me meow m meoow, mew mew

conversation not unnaturally turned on dress.
meeeeeeeeeow mew meoooooooow meeeow me meoow.




“‘Oh! but,’ said my aunt, ‘you must have a sight of my new velvet
“‘Me! mew,’ meow me meow, ‘mew meow meow m meeow me me mew meooow

bonnet,--so handsome,--one pound fifteen shillings,--and came from
meeoow,--me meeoooow,--mew meoow meeeeow meeooooow,--mew meow meow

London. I do trust it won’t rain on Sunday. Eliza, go for the box under
Meeeow. M me meeow me mew’m meow me Meeeow. Meeow, me mew mew mew meoow

the dressing-table in the spare bedroom.’
mew meeeooow-meeow me mew meoow meeeoow.’




“Although the door of this room was kept constantly shut, the window was
“Meooooow mew meow me meow meow mew meow meeeeeeeow meow, mew meeeow mew

opened by day to admit the fresh air. It admitted more,--it admitted
meooow me mew me meoow mew meoow mew. Me meeeeeow meow,--me meooooow

Jenny,--and Jenny did not hesitate to avail herself of the convenience of
Meoow,--mew Meeow mew mew meooooow me meoow meoooow me mew meeeoooooow me

having her kittens in that room.
meeeow mew meoooow me meow meow.




“Eliza had not been gone five minutes, when she returned screaming,--‘Oh,
“Meeow mew mew meow meow meow meeeoow, meow mew meeoooow meeeeeeow,--‘Me,

murther! murther!’ that is all she said. She just ran back again,
meeeoow! meeeeow!’ meow me mew mew meow. Mew meow mew meow meeow,

screaming the same words, and my aunt and friends hastened after her. The
meeooooow mew meow meeow, mew me meow mew meeooow meeeeeow meoow mew. Mew

sight that met their gaze was in no way alarming: it was only Jenny cosily
meoow meow mew meoow meow mew me me mew meeeeoow: me mew meow Meeow meooow

ensconced in the box--the bonnet altered in shape to suit
meeooooow me mew mew--mew meeeow meeooow me meoow me meow

circumstances--looking the picture of innocence and joy as she sung to six
meeeeeeeoooow--meeeoow mew meoooow me meeooooow mew mew me mew meow me mew

blind kittens.
meoow meeeoow.




“Summary and condign was the punishment that fell on the unlucky Jenny.
“Meeooow mew meeeeow mew mew meeeeeooow meow meow me mew meeooow Meoow.

The kittens were ordered to be instantly drowned,--we managed to save just
Mew meoooow meow meeeoow me me meeeoooow meeooow,--me meeeoow me meow meow

one,--and pussy sentenced to be executed as soon as the gardener came in
mew,--mew meeow meeeeeeow me me meeeooow me meow me mew meooooow meow me

the morning. This sentence was afterwards commuted to transportation for
mew meeeoow. Meow meeeooow mew meeeooooow meooooow me meeoooooooooow mew

life from my aunt’s house; and it was remarkable, that although Jenny took
meow meow me meow’m meeow; mew me mew meeoooooow, meow meeeeeow Meoow meow

her Sabbath morning walks as usual with my father, she never entered my
mew Meoooow meoooow meoow me meoow meow me meeeow, mew meoow meoooow me

aunt’s dwelling, but waited patiently until my father came out.” Jenny’s
meow’m meeeeeow, mew meeoow meeooooow meoow me meeoow meow mew.” Meoow’m

master died.
meooow meow.




“Jenny seemed to miss my father greatly. She used to go to the garden on a
“Meoow meeeow me meow me meeoow meeeeow. Mew meow me me me mew meeoow me m

Sunday, as usual, but walked up and down disconsolate and sad; and on her
Meeeow, me meoow, mew meeoow me mew meow meeeooooooow mew mew; mew me mew

return would take up her old position outside my aunt’s door, and wait and
meeoow meoow meow me mew mew meeeeeow meoooow me meow’m meow, mew meow mew

wait, always thinking he would surely come. This constant waiting and
meow, meeeow meeeeoow me meeow meeoow meow. Meow meeoooow meeooow mew

watching for him that would come again no more, was the first thing that
meooooow mew mew meow meeow meow meoow me meow, mew mew meoow meoow meow

softened my aunt’s heart to poor Jenny; and she was freely forgiven for
meeeeeow me meow’m meeow me meow Meeow; mew mew mew meooow meeeeeow mew

the destruction of the velvet bonnet, and took up her abode for life with
mew meeooooooow me mew meeeow meeoow, mew meow me mew meoow mew meow meow

my aunt, on whom she bestowed all the affection she had previously
me meow, me meow mew meeeeoow mew mew meeeeeeow mew mew meeoooooow

lavished on my father.”
meeeooow me me meeoow.”




Kittens, like the young of most animals--mankind included--are sometimes
Meoooow, meow mew meeow me meow meeeoow--meoooow meeeooow--mew meeooooow

rather selfish towards their parents. A large kitten that I knew, used to
meeeow meeeeow meeeoow meeow meeeeow. M meeow meeoow meow M meow, meow me

be regularly fed with mice which its mother caught and brought to it from
me meeeeeoow mew meow meow meoow mew meooow meeoow mew meoooow me me meow

a stack-yard. Instead of appearing grateful, he used to seize the mouse
m meoow-meow. Meeeoow me meeeeeeow meooooow, me meow me meoow mew meeow

and, running growling to a corner, devour the whole of it. His mother must
mew, meeooow meeeeoow me m meooow, meeoow mew meeow me me. Mew meooow meow

have thought this rather unfair, for after standing it three or four
meow meeeoow meow meooow meooow, mew meeow meooooow me meeow me meow

times, she brought in the mouse, and slapped him if he dared to touch it
meeow, mew meeooow me mew meoow, mew meeooow mew me me meoow me meoow me

until she had eaten her share--the hind quarters; then he had to be
meoow mew mew meeow mew meoow--mew meow meeeooow; meow me mew me me

content with the rest.
meeeeow meow mew meow.




I knew of a cat that, in order to avoid the punishment which she thought
M meow me m mew meow, me meeow me meeow mew meeeeeeoow meeow mew meeeoow

she merited on committing an offence, adopted the curious expedient of
mew meoooow me meeeooooow me meeeeow, meoooow mew meeeoow meoooooow me

having two homes. Her failing was fish. If there had been no fish in the
meeeow mew meoow. Mew meeeoow mew meow. Me meeow mew meow me meow me mew

world, she would have been a strictly honest cat. She warred against the
meeow, mew meeow meow meow m meooooow meooow mew. Mew meeoow meeeeow mew

temptation, but it was of no use; the spirit was willing but the flesh
meeeeeeeow, mew me mew me me mew; mew meooow mew meeeeow mew mew meoow

weak, and the smell of fish not to be resisted. As long as she could steal
meow, mew mew meeow me meow mew me me meeeeoow. Me meow me mew meoow meoow

without being found out, it was all right, things went on smoothly; but
meoooow meoow meeow mew, me mew mew meoow, meeeow meow me meeoooow; mew

whenever she was caught tripping, she bade good-bye for a time to that
meooooow mew mew meeoow meeeeeow, mew meow meow-mew mew m meow me meow

home, and took up her quarters at the other, distant about half a mile.
meow, mew meow me mew meeeeoow me mew meeow, meeeeow meeow meow m meow.

Here she would reside for a month or more, as the case might be, until the
Meow mew meoow meeoow mew m meoow me meow, me mew meow meoow me, meeow mew

theft of another haddock or whiting caused her to return to the other
meoow me meeeeow meeeoow me meoooow meooow mew me meooow me mew meeow

house. And so on; this cat kept up the habit of fluctuating backwards and
meeow. Mew me me; meow mew meow me mew meeow me meeeeeeooow meeooooow mew

forwards, between her two homes, as long as she lived. She was never
meeoooow, meeeoow mew mew meeow, me meow me mew meoow. Mew mew meoow

thrashed, and, I think, did not deserve to be.
meeeeoow, mew, M meeow, mew mew meeeoow me me.




It is a common thing for a she-cat, if her kittens are all drowned, to
Me me m meeeow meeow mew m mew-mew, me mew meoooow mew mew meeeeow, me

take to suckling a former kitten--even a grown-up son has sometimes to
meow me meeeeeow m meeoow meeoow--meow m meeow-me mew mew meeeeeoow me

resume the office and duties of baby to a bereaved mother, and is in
meeoow mew meeeow mew meooow me meow me m meeeeeow meeoow, mew me me

general no ways loath to do so. There is a horrid cat in a village in
meeooow me meow meoow me me me. Meoow me m meeeow mew me m meeooow me

Yorkshire, who, every time his mother has kittens, steals them, taking
Meeeeooow, mew, meoow meow mew meeoow mew meeeeow, meeeow meow, meeeow

them one by one to the cellar, and eating them. When there are no more to
meow mew me mew me mew meooow, mew meeeow meow. Meow meoow mew me meow me

eat, filial piety constrains him to suckle his dam, until she deems it fit
mew, meooow meoow meeeeeeoow mew me meooow mew mew, meeow mew meoow me mew

that he should be weaned. He has been weaned already four times, to my
meow me meeeow me meeeow. Me mew meow meooow meeooow meow meoow, me me

knowledge.
meeooooow.




If a kitten has been given away, and for some reason or other returns
Me m meeoow mew meow meeow meow, mew mew meow meeeow me meeow meeooow

again to its mother’s home, the first thing that mother does is to give
meeow me mew meeoow’m meow, mew meeow meeow meow meooow meow me me meow

him a sound hiding, afterwards she receives him into favour, and gives him
mew m meoow meeoow, meeeeoooow mew meooooow mew meow meooow, mew meoow mew

her tail to play with by way of _solatium_. Mothers will sometimes correct
mew meow me meow meow me mew me meooooooow. Meeooow meow meoooooow meeooow

their very young kittens; for instance, if it squeals when she wants to
meeow meow meeow meoooow; mew meeeeoow, me me meeeeow meow mew meoow me

get away for a short time, two or three smart pats with a mittened paw
mew meow mew m meoow meow, mew me meoow meeow meow meow m meeeeoow mew

generally make it go fast asleep.
meeeeooow meow me me meow meooow.




The cat’s love of fun is perhaps one of the most endearing traits in her
Mew mew’m meow me mew me meeeoow mew me mew meow meeeeeoow meeoow me mew

character. Who has not laughed to see the antics performed by some pet
meeeeeeow. Mew mew mew meeooow me mew mew meeoow meeeeeoow me meow mew

cat, whom its mistress wished to bring into the house for the night. Pussy
mew, meow mew meeeooow meeeow me meoow meow mew meoow mew mew meeow. Meeow

has been walking with her mistress in the garden; but the night is fair
mew meow meeooow meow mew meooooow me mew meooow; mew mew meoow me meow

and moonlit, and she hasn’t the slightest intention of coming in, for at
mew meeeoow, mew mew meow’m mew meeeoooow meeeoooow me meeeow me, mew me

least half-an-hour yet. So round the walks she flies, romping and
meeow meow-me-meow mew. Me meeow mew meeow mew meoow, meoooow mew

rollicking, with tail in the air, and eyes crimson and green with the
meeeeeeeow, meow meow me mew mew, mew meow meeooow mew meoow meow mew

mischief that is in them; always popping out when least expected, and
meeeooow meow me me meow; meooow meeooow mew meow meeow meeeeeow, mew

sometimes brushing the lady’s very skirts. Now she walks demurely up to
meeeeeeow meeoooow mew meow’m meow meeoow. Mew mew meoow meeeooow me me

her mistress, as if soliciting capture, and just as she is being picked
mew meeeeoow, me me meeeeeeoow meoooow, mew meow me mew me meoow meooow

up,--“Ah! you thought you had me, did you?” and off she scampers to the
me,--“Me! mew meeeeow mew mew me, mew mew?” mew mew mew meeeeoow me mew

other end of the garden. Anon, she is up a tree, and grinning like an elf
meeow mew me mew meeeow. Meow, mew me me m meow, mew meooooow meow me mew

from the topmost branches; and no amount of pet names, blarney, or coaxing
meow mew meeeeow meeeeeow; mew me meeoow me mew meoow, meeeeow, me meoooow

will entice her down or into the house until, as they say in the north,
meow meeeow mew meow me meow mew meoow meeow, me meow mew me mew meoow,

her ain de’il bids her. Pussy’s fondness for frolic has led to strange
mew mew me’me meow mew. Meoow’m meeeooow mew meeoow mew mew me meeeoow

results sometimes, as the following will testify:--
meeeeow meeeoooow, me mew meeeeooow meow meeooow:--




In an old-fashioned house, in an old-fashioned parish, in the county of
Me me mew-meeooooow meeow, me me mew-meeeoooow meooow, me mew meooow me

Aberdeenshire, there lived, not many years ago, a farmer of the name of
Meeeeooooooow, meeow meeow, mew meow meoow mew, m meooow me mew meow me

D----. His family consisted of his wife, two marriageable daughters, and a
M----. Mew meeoow meeeeeeow me mew meow, mew meeeeeeoooow meeeeooow, mew m

beautiful tabby cat. This cat was well fed and cared for, and being so,
meoooooow meeow mew. Meow mew mew meow mew mew meoow mew, mew meoow me,

was an excellent mouser. Indeed, it was averred by the farmer that no rat
mew me meeeeooow meeeow. Meeoow, me mew meeeoow me mew meooow meow me mew

would live within a mile of her. The house stood by itself some distance
meeow meow meeoow m meow me mew. Mew meoow meeow me meooow meow meeoooow

off the road, but, though surrounded by lofty pine-trees, it had by no
mew mew meow, mew, meeeow meeoooooow me meeow meow-meeow, me mew me me

means the appearance of a place, which a ghost of average intellect and
meeow mew meeeeeooow me m meoow, meeow m meoow me meeooow meeooooow mew

any claim to respectability would select, as the scene of its midnight
mew meoow me meeeeeeeeeeeow meoow meeoow, me mew meeow me mew meeoooow

peregrinations. Besides, there was no story attached to the house. No one
meeeeeeoooooow. Meeeoow, meoow mew me meeow meooooow me mew meoow. Me mew

had ever been murdered there, so far as was known. No old miser had ever
mew meow meow meeeeoow meoow, me mew me mew meoow. Me mew meoow mew meow

resided within its walls; and though several members of the family had
meeooow meeeow mew meeow; mew meeoow meeeeow meeeeow me mew meooow mew

died in the old box-bed, they had all passed away in the most legitimate
meow me mew mew mew-mew, meow mew mew meooow meow me mew meow meooooooow

manner. Old granny was the only one at all likely to come back; but what
meooow. Mew meeeow mew mew meow mew me mew meeeow me meow meow; mew meow

could she have forgotten? The old lady was sensible to the last, and
meeow mew meow meeooooow? Mew mew meow mew meooooow me mew meow, mew

behaved like a brick. She told them candidly she was “wearin’ awa’;” sat
meeeoow meow m meoow. Mew meow meow meeeeoow mew mew “meeeow’ mew’;” mew

up in bed and in a sadly quavering voice sang the Old Hundred; then handed
me me mew mew me m meoow meeeeeeow meoow meow mew Mew Meeeeow; meow meeeow

over the key of the tea-caddy, where she kept her “trifle siller,” with
meow mew mew me mew mew-meoow, meeow mew meow mew “meeeow meeoow,” meow

the remark that they would find among the rest two old pennies, which she
mew meooow meow meow meeow meow meeow mew meow mew mew meeooow, meeow mew

had kept especially to be placed in her eyes when her “candle went out.”
mew meow meeeeeeeow me me meooow me mew meow meow mew “meooow meow mew.”




In spite of this, however, the honest farmer and his family were all
Me meeow me meow, meeeeow, mew meooow meooow mew mew meeeow meow mew

awakened one night by hearing the parlour bell rung, and rung too with
meeoooow mew meoow me meeooow mew meoooow meow meow, mew meow mew meow

great force. They couldn’t all have been dreaming. Besides, while they
meeow meeow. Meow meeoow’m mew meow meow meeeeoow. Meoooow, meeow meow

were yet doubting and deliberating, lo! the bell rung a second time. John
meow mew meeeooow mew meooooooooow, me! mew meow meow m meeeow meow. Meow

and his wife shook in their shoes. That is merely a figure of speech; for,
mew mew meow meeow me meoow meeow. Meow me meooow m meooow me meeeow; mew,

properly speaking, they hadn’t even their stockings on. The marriageable
meeeeoow meooooow, meow meow’m meow meeow meeooooow me. Mew meeeeeeeeeow

daughters would have fainted, but they had only read of fainting in books,
meeeeeoow meoow meow meoooow, mew meow mew meow meow me meooooow me meeow,

and had no idea how it was done. It must be allowed matters were alarming
mew mew me meow mew me mew meow. Me meow me meeeeow meeooow meow meooooow

enough. Who or what dreadful thing was thus urgently demanding an
meeeow. Mew me meow meooooow meeow mew meow meeeooow meoooooow me

interview at that untimely hour of night, in that lone house among the
meeeoooow me meow meeoooow meow me meeow, me meow meow meeow meeow mew

pine-trees. The bell rang a third time; and, urged by the entreaties of
meow-meoow. Mew meow meow m meoow meow; mew, meoow me mew meooooooow me

his wife to be brave for once and go--she did not say come--and see, John
mew meow me me meeow mew meow mew me--mew mew mew mew meow--mew mew, Meow

at last reached down his old brown Bess--it had been loaded for five
me meow meeooow meow mew mew meoow Meow--me mew meow meeoow mew meow

years--and with a candle in his other hand, his wife holding on by the
meoow--mew meow m meooow me mew meeow meow, mew meow meeeeow me me mew

skirts of his night-dress, and the marriageable daughters bringing up the
meeeow me mew meoow-meoow, mew mew meeeooooooow meeeeooow meooooow me mew

rear, prepared to march upon the parlour.
meow, meeoooow me meoow meow mew meeeeow.




In Indian file, and all in white, they might have been mistaken for a
Me Meooow meow, mew mew me meeow, meow meeow meow meow meeeooow mew m

party of priests going to celebrate midnight mass. No ghost could have
meeow me meeeeow meeow me meeooooow meeeeoow meow. Me meoow meoow meow

withstood the sight of that procession. It must have burst out laughing,
meeeeeeow mew meeow me meow meeoooooow. Me meow meow meoow mew meooooow,

unless, indeed, a very _grave_ ghost. When at last they reached the
meeeow, meeoow, m meow meoooow meeow. Meow me meow meow meeeeow mew

parlour, neither sight nor sound rewarded them for their heroism.
meeeoow, meeooow meoow mew meeow meeoooow meow mew meoow meeooow.

Everything was in its usual place, and nothing was disturbed. A search all
Meeeooooow mew me mew meoow meoow, mew meeooow mew meeeeeoow. M meeoow mew

over the house proved too that the doors were all locked, the windows
meow mew meeow meeoow mew meow mew meeow meow mew meooow, mew meeooow

fastened, and no one either up the chimney or under the beds. So the
meeoooow, mew me mew meeoow me mew meeeeow me meeow mew meow. Me mew

mystery was put down to super-human agency, or, as the good wife termed
meeooow mew mew meow me meoow-meoow meooow, me, me mew meow meow meeeow

it, “something no canny;” and they all went trembling back to bed, and lay
me, “meeooooow me meoow;” mew meow mew meow meeeeeeow meow me mew, mew mew

awake in great fear till the cock crew.
meeow me meeow meow meow mew meow meow.




For nearly a fortnight after this, almost every night, and sometimes even
Mew meeeow m meeeeooow meeow meow, meeeow meoow meeow, mew meeooooow meow

by day, the same strange disturbances occurred, and all efforts to solve
me mew, mew meow meeeeow meeeeoooooow meeeooow, mew mew meeeeow me meoow

the mystery were fruitless. So it got rumoured abroad that the house was
mew meeeoow meow meeeoooow. Me me mew meeoooow meeeow meow mew meeow mew

haunted. All the usual remedies were had recourse to for the purpose of
meoooow. Mew mew meoow meooooow meow mew meeoooow me mew mew meoooow me

exorcism, but in vain. The parson came twice to pray in the room. He might
meeoooow, mew me meow. Mew meooow meow meeow me meow me mew meow. Me meoow

as well have stopped at home. Equally unsuccessful were the services of an
me meow meow meoooow me meow. Meeooow meeeooooooow meow mew meeeeeow me me

old lady, whom her enemies called a witch, her friends “the wisest woman
mew meow, meow mew meoooow meeoow m meeow, mew meeooow “mew meooow meeow

in the parish.” Things began to look serious. The goodwife was getting
me mew meeoow.” Meeoow meoow me meow meeeeow. Mew meeeeeow mew meeeeow

thin, her daughters hysterical, and John himself began to lose caste among
meow, mew meeeoooow meeeeeooow, mew Meow meeooow meoow me meow meoow meoow

the neighbours. It was openly hinted, that some deed of blood must have
mew meeeeeeeow. Me mew meeeow meeoow, meow meow meow me meeow meow meow

been committed by him, in that same house and room. Nor could his thirty
meow meoooooow me mew, me meow meow meeow mew meow. Mew meoow mew meeoow

years of married life and unblemished reputation save him. He had been
meeow me meeeoow meow mew meoooooooow meeeooooow meow mew. Me mew meow

_too_ quiet, people said, and _too_ regular in his attendance at church;
meoow meeow, meeoow meow, mew meeow meoooow me mew meeeeeooow me meeoow;

besides, he had a down look about him, and, on the whole, hanging was too
meeooow, me mew m meow meow meeow mew, mew, me mew meoow, meoooow mew mew

good for him. Some averred that strange sights and sounds were seen and
meow mew mew. Meow meeeoow meow meeooow meeoow mew meeoow meow meow mew

heard by people who had occasion to pass that house at night, among other
meoow me meeoow mew mew meooooow me meow meow meoow me meeow, meeow meeow

things a light gliding about in the copse-wood. No, they would not believe
meeoow m meeow meeeoow meeow me mew meoow-meow. Me, meow meoow mew meoooow

it was only John locking up the stable; and the devil himself, in the
me mew meow Meow meeeeow me mew meeeow; mew mew meeow meeeoow, me mew

shape of a fox, was seen at early morning coming directly from the house.
meoow me m mew, mew meow me meoow meeeeow meooow meeeeoow meow mew meoow.

Of course the devil had a fine fat hen over his shoulders, but that had
Me meooow mew meoow mew m meow mew mew meow mew meeeeooow, mew meow mew

nothing to do with the matter. Poor John! it had come to this, that he had
meeooow me me meow mew meeoow. Meow Meow! me mew meow me meow, meow me mew

serious thoughts of giving up his farm and going to America, when a
meeeeow meeeeoow me meooow me mew meow mew meoow me Meeooow, meow m

rollicking young student in the neighbourhood, who did not believe in
meeeeeeoow meoow meeeeow me mew meoooooooooow, mew mew mew meeeoow me

spirits--except ardent--proposed to the farmer that they should “wake the
meeooow--meeeow meeoow--meooooow me mew meooow meow meow meooow “meow mew

ghost.”
meeow.”




“Wake the ghost!” said the farmer, “ye little ken, lad. He’s wide enough
“Meow mew meeow!” meow mew meooow, “me meooow mew, mew. Me’m meow meeeow

awake already.”
meoow meeeoow.”




“Wake him,” repeated the student; “sit up at night, you know, and wait
“Meow mew,” meeeeoow mew meoooow; “mew me me meeow, mew meow, mew meow

till he comes.”
meow me meoow.”




John turned pale.
Meow meooow meow.




“I’ll sit with you,” continued the young man. “If he’s a civil ghost, we
“M’me mew meow mew,” meeeeeoow mew meeow mew. “Me me’m m meoow meoow, me

can hear what he has got to say; for
mew meow meow me mew mew me mew; mew




  ‘The darkest nicht I fear nae deil,
  ‘Mew meeooow meeow M meow mew meow,

     Warlock, nor witch in Gowrie.’”
     Meoooow, mew meeow me Meeoow.’”




Very reluctantly John consented; but he did consent; and that night the
Meow meeeeeeeoow Meow meeeeeoow; mew me mew meeooow; mew meow meeow mew

two met in the haunted chamber alone, just before the old clock on the
mew mew me mew meoooow meeeeow meeow, meow meeeow mew mew meeow me mew

stair told the hour of midnight.
meeow meow mew meow me meeeeoow.




“What have you got under your arm?” inquired the student.
“Meow meow mew mew meeow meow mew?” meeoooow mew meeeeow.




“The ha’ Bible,” replied John, in a sepulchral voice; “is that a Bible
“Mew me’ Meoow,” meeeoow Meow, me m meeeeeeeow meeow; “me meow m Meeow

you’ve brought?”
mew’me meeooow?”




“No, it’s whisky,” said the student, “about the only spirit you are likely
“Me, me’m meeeow,” meow mew meeooow, “meeow mew meow meooow mew mew meooow

to see to-night; and there won’t be the ghost of that left by cock-crow.”
me mew me-meoow; mew meoow mew’m me mew meoow me meow meow me meow-meow.”




So they waited and watched, John reading, the student smoking steadily and
Me meow meeeow mew meoooow, Meow meeeoow, mew meeeoow meeeeow meooooow mew

drinking periodically. One o’clock came, and two o’clock, and the candle
meeeeeow meeeeeeeeeow. Mew m’meeow meow, mew mew m’meeow, mew mew meeoow

was burning low in the socket, when suddenly, “Hist!” said the student,
mew meeooow mew me mew meeeow, meow meeoooow, “Meow!” meow mew meoooow,

and “Hush!” said John. They could distinctly hear footsteps about them in
mew “Meow!” meow Meow. Meow meoow meooooooow meow meeeoooow meoow meow me

the room, but no one visible. They were really frightened now. Then
mew meow, mew me mew meeeoow. Meow meow meeoow meeeeeeoow mew. Meow

something rushed past them, and the bell rang, and there, lo, and behold!
meeooooow meeoow meow meow, mew mew meow meow, mew meoow, me, mew meooow!

from the rope dangled John’s decent tabby cat.
meow mew meow meeooow Meow’m meooow meoow mew.




“And the Lord’s name be praised,” said John piously, closing the book.
“Mew mew Meow’m meow me meeooow,” meow Meow meeooow, meeooow mew meow.




“Such ghosts as these,” said the student, “are best exorcised with a
“Meow meeoow me meoow,” meow mew meeooow, “mew meow meeeoooow meow m

broom-handle; but, see! this explains.” He held up the rope, to the end of
meeow-meooow; mew, mew! meow meeeeeow.” Me meow me mew meow, me mew mew me

which--country fashion--was attached _a hare’s foot_!
meeow--meoooow meoooow--mew meeeooow me meow’m meoow!













CHAPTER III.
MEEEOOW MEW.




[_See Note C, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeeoow.m]




PUSSY’S LOVE OF CHILDREN.
MEEOW’M MEOW ME MEEOOOOW.







The cat is more than any other creature the pet of our early years. Almost
Mew mew me meow meow mew meoow meeeeoow mew mew me mew meeow meeow. Meeoow

the first animal we notice, when we are old enough to notice anything, is
mew meeow meeoow me meooow, meow me mew mew meeoow me meeeow meooooow, me

pussy, with her beautiful markings, her well-pleased, homely face, sleek
meoow, meow mew meeooooow meeeeoow, mew meow-meeooow, meeeow meow, meoow

and shining fur, and soft paws, which she never ungloves in the presence
mew meeeeow mew, mew meow meow, meeow mew meeow meeeeeow me mew meooooow

of childhood. Children and cats, especially young ones, have so very much
me meeeeooow. Meeeeoow mew meow, meooooooow meoow meow, meow me meow meow

in common. Both are innocent, sinless, and easily pleased, and both are
me meooow. Meow mew meeeeoow, meeooow, mew meooow meeooow, mew meow mew

full of fun and frolic. Children will often play with a kitten until they
meow me mew mew meeoow. Meooooow meow meoow meow meow m meeeow meeow meow

kill the poor thing. In the country, pussy’s place may easily be supplied
meow mew meow meeow. Me mew meeeoow, meeow’m meeow mew meooow me meeeeoow

by some other toy; but to a poor little gutter-child the loss is simply
me meow meeow mew; mew me m meow meeeow meooow-meeow mew meow me meeoow

irreparable, and she will nurse her dead kitten in the mud for a week. The
meeeeeeeoow, mew mew meow meeow mew meow meooow me mew mew mew m meow. Mew

way children use poor patient pussy is at times anything but commendable;
mew meeoooow mew meow meeeoow meoow me me meoow meeeooow mew meeeeeeooow;

and while deprecating the conduct of parents in allowing them to treat
mew meoow meoooooooow mew meeeoow me meeeeow me meeeeoow meow me meoow

the cat so, we cannot but admire pussy’s extreme forbearance and
mew mew me, me meeeow mew meooow meeow’m meeooow meeeeeeeoow mew

uncomplaining good nature, under what must be considered very trying
meoooooooooow meow meeoow, meeow meow meow me meooooooow meow meooow

circumstances. It is nothing to see Miss Puss or Master Tom dressed up in
meeeeeeeeooow. Me me meeeeow me mew Meow Meow me Meeoow Mew meeooow me me

a shawl and neatly fitting cap, and lugged about as a doll, carried by the
m meoow mew meeoow meeooow mew, mew meooow meoow me m meow, meeooow me mew

tail over the child’s shoulder, or worn as a comforter round his neck. Yet
meow meow mew meoow’m meeoooow, me meow me m meeeeooow meeow mew meow. Mew

pussy seems to know that there is no harm meant, and that the children
meoow meeow me meow meow meoow me me meow meoow, mew meow mew meeeeeow

really love her dearly; so she never attempts to scratch, far less to
meeeow meow mew meeoow; me mew meeow meooooow me meeeoow, mew meow me

bite. All experience goes to prove, too, that it is generally the child
meow. Mew meeoooooow meow me meoow, mew, meow me me meoooooow mew meeow

that uses her the worst, to whom pussy is most attached.
meow meow mew mew meoow, me meow meeow me meow meooooow.




The ‘dead playmate’ is a picture you will often see in real life. I saw
Mew ‘meow meeeooow’ me m meeeoow mew meow meoow mew me meow meow. M mew

one not a month ago. A pretty little child, with round, wondering eyes,
mew mew m meeow mew. M meeoow meeoow meeow, meow meoow, meeeeeoow meow,

swollen with recent tears, sitting in the corner of a field in the summer
meoooow meow meeoow meeow, meeeoow me mew meeeow me m meoow me mew meeeow

sunshine. On her lap lay--among a handful of daisies and corn-poppies--a
meooooow. Me mew mew mew--meeow m meeeoow me meoooow mew meow-meeeeow--m

wee dead kitten: life had but lately left it. When I spoke to her, her
mew meow meeoow: meow mew mew meeeow meow me. Meow M meeow me mew, mew

grief burst out afresh.
meoow meeow mew meeeow.




“O sir, my pussy’s deadëd, my pretty pussy’s deadëd!”
“M mew, me meoow’m meeeow, me meooow meeow’m meooow!”




There would be no more games of romps in the garden, no more scampering
Meeow meeow me me meow meeow me meeow me mew meeeow, me meow meeeeeeeow

together through the green fields after the butterfly, no more making
meeeeoow meeeoow mew meeow meeeow meeow mew meeeeooow, me meow meeeow

pussy a doll. She would go lonely to bed to-night and cry herself asleep,
meoow m meow. Mew meeow me meeeow me mew me-meoow mew mew meeooow meeoow,

for pretty pussy was “deadëd.”
mew meeeow meoow mew “meooow.”




In the adjacent street to where I now live, is a fine large red-tabby Tom.
Me mew meeeeoow meeoow me meoow M mew meow, me m meow meeow mew-meoow Mew.

He is a famous mouser, a noted hunter, and a gentleman every inch. He was
Me me m meeoow meeoow, m meoow meeoow, mew m meoooooow meoow meow. Me mew

faithful in love and dauntless in war. When I tried to stroke him, he gave
meeoooow me meow mew meeooooow me mew. Meow M meoow me meooow mew, me meow

me a look and a growl of such unmistakable meaning, that I mechanically
me m meow mew m meeow me meow meooooooooow meeooow, meow M meeeeeooooow

put my hands in my pockets and whistled. He makes no friends with
mew me meoow me me meoooow mew meeeeeow. Me meeow me meeeoow meow

strangers. Yet Tom has a little mistress, not much over three years old,
meeeeooow. Mew Mew mew m meooow meooooow, mew meow meow meoow meeow mew,

whom he dearly loves, and from whom he is seldom absent. He lies down on
meow me meeoow meeow, mew meow meow me me meeeow meeoow. Me meow meow me

his side, and allows little Alice to lift him, although she can hardly
mew meow, mew meeeow meooow Meeow me meow mew, meeeeeow mew mew meeeow

totter along with her burden, which she carries as often by the tail as
meeeow meeow meow mew meeeow, meoow mew meoooow me meeow me mew meow me

any way else. She sleeps beside him on the hearth-rug, Tom winding his
mew mew meow. Mew meeeow meooow mew me mew meooow-mew, Mew meoooow mew

arms lovingly around her neck, and little Alice declares that pussy
meow meooooow meooow mew meow, mew meooow Meoow meeeeeow meow meeow

“carries his kisses on his nose.”
“meeeeow mew meeeow me mew meow.”




Wee Elsie S----, though only six years old, has completely tamed--as far
Mew Meoow M----, meeoow meow mew meeow mew, mew meeoooooow meeow--me mew

as she herself is concerned--what might almost be called a wild cat, it
me mew meoooow me meeeoooow--meow meoow meeeow me meooow m meow mew, me

having been bred and brought up in the woods. This cat has only two good
meeoow meow meow mew meeeoow me me mew meoow. Meow mew mew meow mew meow

qualities, namely, his great skill in vermin-killing, and his fondness for
meeeoooow, meeoow, mew meoow meeow me meeeow-meeeoow, mew mew meooooow mew

little Elsie. Neither the child’s father, mother, nor the servants, dare
meeeow Meeow. Meoooow mew meoow’m meeoow, meeoow, mew mew meeeeoow, meow

put a finger on this wild brindled Tom; but as soon as Elsie comes down in
mew m meooow me meow meow meeeooow Mew; mew me meow me Meeow meoow meow me

the morning, and puss is let in, with a fond cry he rushes towards her,
mew meeeoow, mew meow me mew me, meow m meow mew me meeoow meeeeow mew,

singing and caressing her with evident satisfaction. He then does duty as
meeeeow mew meeeeooow mew meow meeeoow meeeeeeeeeow. Me meow meow meow me

a doll all day, or follows the child wherever she goes, and sleeps with
m meow mew mew, me meoooow mew meoow meeeeoow mew meow, mew meeoow meow

her when she sleeps.
mew meow mew meeoow.




“In our nursery,” writes a lady correspondent, “there was always a cat,
“Me mew meeeeow,” meeeow m meow meeeeeeeeeeow, “meoow mew meeoow m mew,

which was the favourite companion of the children, submitting to many
meeow mew mew meeeeeoow meeooooow me mew meeeeeow, meeeeoooow me meow

indignities which a dog would scarcely have endured with so much patience.
meoooooooow meeow m mew meeow meooooow meow meoooow meow me meow meeeeeow.

One handsome tabby cat, named by us children Roland the Brave, used to
Mew meeeeeow meoow mew, meoow me me meeeeoow Meeoow mew Meeow, meow me

hold his place in front of the nursery fire, with the utmost patience and
meow mew meeow me meeow me mew meeeeow meow, meow mew meooow meeeeeow mew

good-humour, in spite of kettles boiling over on him, nursery-maids
meow-meeoow, me meoow me meoooow meeooow meow me mew, meeeoow-meeow

treading on his paws and tail, and children teasing him in every possible
meeeeoow me mew meow mew meow, mew meooooow meeeoow mew me meoow meeoooow

way.”
mew.”




“The tom-cat which I have at present,” says another, “keeps my children
“Mew mew-mew meeow M meow me meeooow,” meow meeooow, “meoow me meeeooow

company in their walks, and is indeed more careful of them than the maid,
meeeoow me meeow meoow, mew me meooow meow meeeeow me meow meow mew meow,

who sometimes has forgotten her duty so far as to leave the perambulator
mew meeooooow mew meeeoooow mew meow me mew me me meeow mew meeeeeeoooow

to look after itself, while she is talking and laughing with a tall man in
me meow meeow meeoow, meeow mew me meeooow mew meeoooow meow m meow mew me

red. But Tom is not so thoughtless, and sticks close by the children,
mew. Mew Mew me mew me meeeoooooow, mew meeeow meeow me mew meeeeoow,

showing signs of anger when any one approaches. He seems, moreover, imbued
meoooow meeow me meoow meow mew mew meeeeeeeow. Me meoow, meeoooow, meooow

with the idea, that the every-day food of that domestic quadruped, the
meow mew meow, meow mew meoow-mew meow me meow meeeooow meeeeooow, mew

dog, is babies, and, if any one is foolish enough to come snuffing round
mew, me meooow, mew, me mew mew me meeooow meeoow me meow meeoooow meeow

the perambulator, Tom mounts him at once, and proceeds forthwith to
mew meeeeeooooow, Mew meeeow mew me meow, mew meeeeeow meeeeooow me

sharpen his claws in his hide. On one occasion when my family were absent
meoooow mew meeow me mew meow. Me mew meeeeoow meow me meeeow meow meeoow

for a few days, Tom was so disconsolate that he refused to take his food.
mew m mew meow, Mew mew me meeeooooooow meow me meoooow me meow mew meow.

To show his love for the children, I made the remark to Tom, in presence
Me meow mew meow mew mew meeoooow, M meow mew meeeow me Mew, me meeeeoow

of some friends, that baby was in the cradle; the cat jumped up and went
me meow meeeoow, meow meow mew me mew meeeow; mew mew meeeow me mew meow

directly towards it, and examined it, then returned mewing most mournfully
meeeeeow meeeoow me, mew meeeooow me, meow meooooow meooow meow meeoooooow

because of the disappointment.”
meeeeow me mew meooooooooooow.”




Pussy’s love for babies is always very noticeable. In fact, with very
Meeow’m meow mew meooow me meeoow meow meeeeeeeow. Me meow, meow meow

little training, she may be taught, if not to nurse, at least to mind, the
meeoow meeeeeow, mew mew me meeeow, me mew me meoow, me meoow me meow, mew

baby. I know a cat which, as soon as the child is placed in its little
meow. M meow m mew meoow, me meow me mew meeow me meeoow me mew meeeow

cot, lays itself gently down at its back; and this is not for sake of
mew, meow meeoow meeoow meow me mew meow; mew meow me mew mew meow me

warmth and comfort, as some may allege, but from pure love of baby. For
meeoow mew meeooow, me meow mew meeeow, mew meow meow meow me meow. Mew

pussy lies perfectly still as long as the child sleeps; but whenever she
meoow meow meeeeeoow meoow me meow me mew meeow meeeow; mew meeeeoow mew

awakes, even before she cries, the cat jumps down and runs to tell her
meooow, meow meooow mew meoow, mew mew meeow meow mew meow me meow mew

mistress, runs back to the cradle, and, with her forefeet on the edge,
meooooow, meow meow me mew meeoow, mew, meow mew meooooow me mew meow,

looks alternately at baby and its mother, mewing entreatingly until the
meeow meeeoooooow me meow mew mew meooow, meooow meeeeeooooow meeow mew

child is lifted. Contented now, it throws itself at the mother’s feet, and
meeow me meeeow. Meeeeeoow mew, me meeeow meeeow me mew meooow’m meow, mew

goes quietly off to sleep. Another cat I know of, that goes regularly to
meow meeeeow mew me meoow. Meeeeow mew M meow me, meow meow meeeeeeow me

the harvest-field, with its mistress and a young child. The cat remains
mew meoooow-meeow, meow mew meooooow mew m meoow meoow. Mew mew meeeeow

with the child all day, guarding him and amusing him by playing at
meow mew meoow mew mew, meooooow mew mew meeeeow mew me meeeeow me

hide-and-seek with him, until evening, when the mother, who has only
meow-mew-meow meow mew, meeow meeeoow, meow mew meeeow, mew mew meow

visited her child two or three times during the day, returns, generally to
meeeeow mew meeow mew me meeow meoow meooow mew mew, meeeeow, meoooooow me

find baby and puss asleep in each other’s arms.
meow meow mew meow meeeow me meow meeow’m meow.




Cats too not only mourn the absence of their little master or mistress,
Meow mew mew meow meoow mew meeeoow me meoow meooow meeoow me meeeooow,

but will try to follow them if they can.
mew meow mew me meeoow meow me meow mew.




“A certain party of my acquaintance,” says a lady, “had a large cat called
“M meeeoow meoow me me meeeeeooooow,” meow m meow, “mew m meeow mew meooow

Tabby, who was a great favourite with all the family. Tabby seemed to
Meoow, mew mew m meoow meeeeeoow meow mew mew meooow. Meeow meooow me

reciprocate the attachment of the different members, but its fondness for
meeeeooooow mew meeeeeooow me mew meeeeeoow meeooow, mew mew meooooow mew

the youngest daughter was something wonderful. It would follow her about
mew meeoooow meeeeeow mew meeeeeoow meoooooow. Me meeow meeeow mew meeow

wherever she went, and if she ever left home for a short time, poor pussy
meooooow mew meow, mew me mew meow meow meow mew m meoow meow, meow meeow

seemed quite wretched until her return. At one time the child went to
meeoow meeow meeoooow meoow mew meeeow. Me mew meow mew meoow meow me

reside for two months, with some friends many miles distant. You may fancy
meooow mew mew meeeow, meow meow meoooow meow meeow meoooow. Mew mew meeow

her surprise and delight when one morning, after she had been about a
mew meeeeoow mew meeeoow meow mew meoooow, meoow mew mew meow meeow m

week in her new residence, in marches her dear friend and companion
meow me mew mew meoooooow, me meeeeow mew meow meeeow mew meeeeeoow

Mistress Tabby, and nothing could induce her to leave again. Pussy took up
Meeeeoow Meeow, mew meeooow meoow meooow mew me meeow meeow. Meoow meow me

her abode with the girl, stuck by her all the time, and at the end of the
mew meoow meow mew meow, meeow me mew mew mew meow, mew me mew mew me mew

visit faithfully accompanied her back to their home.”
meeow meeeeeooow meeeeooooow mew meow me meeow meow.”




A woman, whom I know, has a tom-cat, which watches constantly by the
M meoow, meow M meow, mew m mew-mew, meeow meeooow meeeeoooow me mew

baby’s cradle, when its mistress is absent. One day, when hanging up some
meow’m meeoow, meow mew meeeeeow me meeeow. Mew mew, meow meeeeow me meow

clothes in the garden, she became suddenly aware of an awful row going on
meeooow me mew meooow, mew meeoow meeeeeow meoow me me meoow mew meeow me

in the room she had just left. She entered, just in time to see Tom riding
me mew meow mew mew meow meow. Mew meeeoow, meow me meow me mew Mew meooow

a large shepherd’s collie round the room, and back again, and finally out
m meoow meeeeoow’m meeoow meeow mew meow, mew meow meeow, mew meoooow mew

at the door. Tom was a most cruel jockey, sparing neither bit(e) nor spur,
me mew meow. Mew mew m meow meeow meeeow, meeeeow meeooow mew(m) mew meow,

as the howls of the unhappy collie fully testified. That dog hasn’t been
me mew meoow me mew meeooow meeeow meoow meeeeeeow. Meow mew meow’m meow

seen in the immediate vicinity since.
meow me mew meeooooow meooooow meoow.




The cat, mentioned in the following anecdote, was surely worthy of the
Mew mew, meoooooow me mew meeeeeeow meeeeoow, mew meooow meooow me mew

Humane Society’s bronze medallion, as much as any Newfoundland ever was.
Meeoow Meeooow’m meeeow meeeoooow, me meow me mew Meeeeeooooow meow mew.




A certain lady’s little son was ill of scarlet fever. The period of
M meeeeow meow’m meooow mew mew mew me meeooow meoow. Mew meooow me

inflammation and danger was just over, but the poor child was unable to
meeeeoooooow mew meooow mew meow meow, mew mew meow meeow mew meooow me

sit or stand. Through all his illness, he had been carefully watched by a
mew me meeow. Meeeoow mew mew meeeeow, me mew meow meeeeeoow meoooow me m

faithful tom-cat, who seldom ever left his bedside by night or by day; for
meeoooow mew-mew, mew meeeow meow meow mew meeeoow me meeow me me mew; mew

Tom dearly loved the little fellow, who, though now so still and quiet,
Mew meeeow meoow mew meeoow meooow, mew, meooow mew me meoow mew meoow,

used to lark and roll with him on the parlour floor. But since his little
meow me meow mew meow meow mew me mew meeooow meoow. Mew meoow mew meeeow

master’s illness, Tom had never been known to make the slightest attempt
meooow’m meeeoow, Mew mew meeow meow meeow me meow mew meeeeeeow meeeeow

at fun. One day, the child was taken by its mother from bed, and laid on
me mew. Mew mew, mew meoow mew meeow me mew meeoow meow mew, mew meow me

the cool sofa by way of change; and when he had fallen asleep she gently
mew meow meow me mew me meooow; mew meow me mew meooow meeeow mew meooow

left the room, Tom being on guard as usual. She had not been gone many
meow mew meow, Mew meoow me meoow me meeow. Mew mew mew meow meow meow

minutes, and was engaged in some household duties, when Tom entered,
meeooow, mew mew meeeeow me meow meeooooow meooow, meow Mew meeooow,

squirrel-tailed and mewing most piteously, looking up into her face, and
meeoooow-meooow mew meeoow meow meeeeeeow, meeeeow me meow mew meow, mew

then running to the door, plainly entreating his mistress to hurry along
meow meeooow me mew meow, meeeoow meeeeeooow mew meeeeeow me meoow meoow

with him. It was well she did so. Poor Tom ran before her to the room in
meow mew. Me mew meow mew mew me. Meow Mew mew meooow mew me mew meow me

which she had left her boy, when she found that, in attempting to get up,
meeow mew mew meow mew mew, meow mew meoow meow, me meeoooooow me mew me,

the child had fallen on the floor along with the rugs in such a position,
mew meoow mew meooow me mew meoow meoow meow mew meow me meow m meeeeoow,

that death from suffocation would have inevitably followed, but for the
meow meoow meow meeeoooooow meeow meow meeoooooow meeeeoow, mew mew mew

timely aid summoned by this noble tom-cat.
meeoow mew meeeeeow me meow meeow mew-mew.




I think I have said enough to prove how fond pussy is of children, and how
M meoow M meow meow meeoow me meoow mew meow meeow me me meeeeoow, mew mew

forbearing towards them; and surely this trait in her character should
meeeeeooow meeeoow meow; mew meeoow meow meoow me mew meoooooow meooow

endear her to us all. But I do thoroughly deprecate pussy’s being made a
meeeow mew me me mew. Mew M me meeoooooow meeeeooow meeow’m meoow meow m

plaything of, whether she be cat or kitten. It is exceedingly cruel of
meeooooow me, meoooow mew me mew me meeeow. Me me meeeeooooow meeow me

parents to allow it, and is taking an unfair advantage of the cat’s
meoooow me meeow me, mew me meooow me meeoow meoooooow me mew mew’m

good-nature and sense. The way she is lugged about, and tormented by some
meow-meooow mew meeow. Mew mew mew me meeoow meoow, mew meeeeeoow me meow

children, is very prejudicial to her health and appearance. It often does
meeeeeow, me meow meoooooooow me mew meooow mew meeeooooow. Me meoow meow

her grievous bodily harm, injures her heart and lungs, and stops her
mew meeeooow meooow meow, meeeeow mew meeow mew meoow, mew meoow mew

growth, even if it does not induce paralysis and consequent death. Let
meeeow, meow me me meow mew meooow meeeeeoow mew meooooooow meeow. Mew

your children love pussy, pussy loves your children; only kindly point out
meow meeeooow meow meeow, meoow meoow meow meeeeeow; meow meeoow meeow mew

to them the essential difference between a play_thing_ and a play_mate_.
me meow mew meoooooow meeeeeeoow meeooow m meeeeeoooow mew m meeeeeeoow.













CHAPTER IV.
MEOOOOW ME.




[_See Note D, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m]




PUSSY “POLL.”
MEOOW “MEOW.”







The following sketch of cat-life is contributed by one who loves “all
Mew meeooooow meeeow me mew-meow me meeeoooooow me mew mew meoow “mew

things both great and small.” We give it _in extenso_.
meeeow meow meoow mew meoow.” Me meow me mew meeeooow.




Even supposing it to be endowed with the nine lives ascribed to the race,
Meow meeeeooow me me me meeeeow meow mew meow meeow meeoooow me mew meow,

was it at all probable that I would be successful in rearing to mature
mew me me mew meeeeoow meow M meoow me meeeeeeoow me meeooow me meeeow

cathood that dripping little wretch?
meeeoow meow meeeeoow meeeow meooow?




Such was the question, which not without doubt, I asked myself while
Meow mew mew meeoooow, meeow mew meeooow meeow, M meoow meeeow meeow

attempting to dry a kitten, some two weeks old, which I had just saved
meeeeeeeow me mew m meeoow, meow mew meoow mew, meeow M mew meow meeow

from death in a neighbouring horsepond. Arrived at home, I put in practice
meow meeow me m meeoooooooow meeeoooow. Meeeeow me meow, M mew me meeeeoow

as many of the Royal Humane Society’s rules for the treatment of the
me meow me mew Meeow Meeoow Meoooow’m meeow mew mew meeeoooow me mew

apparently drowned, as I found applicable to the case in hand, and soon
meeeooooow meeooow, me M meoow meeeeeooow me mew meow me meow, mew meow

had the satisfaction of seeing my charge, comfortably sleeping in a bed
mew mew meeoooooooow me meeoow me meeoow, meoooooooow meeeooow me m mew

prepared in an old cap, by the fireside. Not less successful were my
meeeooow me me mew mew, me mew meeeooow. Mew meow meooooooow meow me

efforts at nursing, and in a few weeks, Poll, for so I named my pet, had
meeeoow me meeeeow, mew me m mew meeow, Meow, mew me M meoow me mew, mew

grown to be the daintiest thing possible; the very impersonation of
meoow me me mew meoooooow meeow meeeeoow; mew meow meeeeeeeoooow me

mischief and fun, without thought or care, from morn till night, except
meeoooow mew mew, meeeoow meeeeow me meow, meow meow meow meoow, meooow

that of--
meow me--




  “Turning to mirth all things of earth,
  “Meoooow me meoow mew meeoow me meeow,

    As only kittens can.”
    Me meow meeeoow mew.”




Time passed on, however, and with years, or rather months, came troubles,
Meow meooow me, meeeeow, mew meow meoow, me meeeow meeeow, meow meooooow,

one of the first causes of which to puss was a mirror. To her it was a
mew me mew meeow meeoow me meoow me meow mew m meooow. Me mew me mew m

mystery which cost many hours of deep thought and serious study; but never
meoooow meeow meow meow meeow me meow meeeoow mew meeeoow meoow; mew meeow

could she understand why the cat which was always visible in front could
meoow mew meeeeeooow mew mew mew meeow mew meeoow meeooow me meoow meeow

neither be seen, felt, nor heard, behind the glass.
meeeeow me meow, meow, mew meoow, meeeow mew meeow.




Numerous experiments were made to solve the puzzle; but the most common
Meeoooow meeeeeeeeow meow meow me meeow mew meooow; mew mew meow meooow

one was for Poll to seat herself in front of the mirror and critically
mew mew mew Meow me meow meeeoow me meoow me mew meeeow mew meeeeeooow

examine her _vis-à-vis_. The thing seeming so real, she next would give
meoooow mew meow-m-meow. Mew meoow meoooow me meow, mew meow meoow meow

the glass a pat with her paw, and run round to the back; but nothing being
mew meoow m mew meow mew mew, mew mew meoow me mew meow; mew meoooow meeow

found there, one paw was then put in front and the other kept behind. She
meoow meeow, mew mew mew meow mew me meoow mew mew meeow meow meeoow. Mew

would then peep round into the glass, and still seeing puss there, would
meeow meow meow meoow meow mew meoow, mew meoow meooow meow meeow, meoow

renew her efforts to catch her. This was repeated almost daily for some
meeow mew meeeeow me meeow mew. Meow mew meeeooow meeeow meeow mew meow

time; but at last puss seemed to have resolved that the mystery should
meow; mew me meow meow meeeow me meow meeeeeow meow mew meeooow meeoow

remain one no longer, so struck at her opponent with full force, and of
meooow mew me meeoow, me meeeow me mew meeeeeow meow meow meeow, mew me

course seemed to receive a blow in return. In an instant Poll sprang to
meeeow meeeow me meeooow m meow me meeeow. Me me meoooow Meow meeoow me

her feet and assumed a position of defiance; but her foe, nothing loath
mew meow mew meoooow m meooooow me meeoooow; mew mew mew, meeeeow meoow

for the fray, was equally ready. A moment’s pause, and puss hurled herself
mew mew meow, mew meoooow meoow. M meooow’m meoow, mew meow meooow meeooow

on her foe. There was a crash. A cat rushed wildly out of the door, and I
me mew mew. Meoow mew m meoow. M mew meeeow meeoow mew me mew meow, mew M

proceeded to gather fragments of a mirror from off the floor.
meeeeooow me meeoow meeeoooow me m meeeow meow mew mew meeow.




At meal-times, puss regularly seated herself on my shoulder, and waited
Me meow-meoow, meow meeooooow meeoow meeooow me me meeeeoow, mew meeeow

patiently for what she considered her due proportion; but if I seemed to
meeeeeoow mew meow mew meeeeeooow mew mew meeeeeooow; mew me M meooow me

neglect her, she gently reminded me of her presence by patting my cheek
meoooow mew, mew meeoow meooooow me me mew meeeeoow me meoooow me meoow

with her paw. If that was not sufficient, the paw was pressed on my cheek,
meow mew mew. Me meow mew mew meeeeeeeow, mew mew mew meoooow me me meoow,

the claws slowly protruded, and my face drawn round towards her. Success
mew meoow meeeow meeeoooow, mew me meow meoow meoow meoooow mew. Meeooow

invariably attended this manœuvre; and after receiving her share, she
meeeeeooow meooooow meow meooooow; mew meoow meeooooow mew meoow, mew

thanked me by rubbing her head against my cheek, and licking my face.
meeeoow me me meoooow mew meow meeeeow me meoow, mew meeooow me meow.




In due course a young family of kittens appeared; but of course they all,
Me mew meeoow m meoow meeeow me meeeoow meeeeeow; mew me meeeow meow mew,

save one, met the fate from which I had saved their mother. With the
meow mew, mew mew meow meow meoow M mew meoow meoow meooow. Meow mew

family came family cares. Soon the kitten was old enough to begin to
meeeow meow meooow meeow. Meow mew meooow mew mew meeeow me meeow me

receive its education, and then mice at any time, varied occasionally with
meeeeow mew meoooooow, mew meow meow me mew meow, meeoow meeeooooooow meow

a rat or two were to be found lying about the floor. As the kitten got
m mew me mew meow me me meoow meeow meeow mew meeow. Me mew meeoow mew

older, and was able to be left for longer periods alone, Poll extended her
meeow, mew mew meow me me meow mew meooow meeooow meoow, Meow meeeeoow mew

hunting excursions: one morning she brought home four or five young
meoooow meooooooow: mew meeeoow mew meoooow meow meow me meow meeow

partridges, and the following day one of the parent birds. The next great
meeeeeeoow, mew mew meeeeooow mew mew me mew meooow meoow. Mew meow meoow

hunt produced as many young rabbits, and although to such games I had no
meow meeoooow me meow meeow meeooow, mew meooooow me meow meoow M mew me

great objection to offer; yet, when frogs, toads, or lizards were the
meeow meeeeooow me meoow; mew, meow meeow, meeow, me meeooow meow mew

produce of a day’s sport, as was sometimes the case, I did protest.
meeooow me m mew’m meeow, me mew meeeeooow mew meow, M mew meeooow.




On one occasion, while the kitten was playing out of doors, it was pursued
Me mew meeeeoow, meeow mew meeoow mew meeooow mew me meoow, me mew meeeoow

by a dog belonging to a neighbour, but escaped through a hole in a wall
me m mew meeeeooow me m meoooooow, mew meoooow meeeeow m meow me m meow

close by. Poll, who at some distance had seen the whole affair, at once
meoow me. Meow, mew me meow meeeeoow mew meow mew meoow meeeow, me meow

darted to her kitten’s side, and did her best to quiet its fears, telling
meooow me mew meeoow’m meow, mew mew mew meow me meeow mew meeow, meeooow

it, doubtless, that she would take an early opportunity of teaching that
me, meeeeooow, meow mew meeow meow me meeow meeeeeeeoow me meeeeeow meow

dog better manners. The opportunity was not long wanting. Next day the dog
mew meooow meeeoow. Mew meeooooooow mew mew meow meoooow. Meow mew mew mew

again passing, was noticed by puss, who ran and hid behind a corner, near
meoow meeooow, mew meeooow me meow, mew mew mew mew meeeow m meeeow, meow

which he would come, and there waited his approach. Just as he turned she
meoow me meeow meow, mew meoow meeeow mew meeeeoow. Meow me me meeeow mew

sprung on his head, and with teeth and claws took hold so firm that he in
meooow me mew meow, mew meow meoow mew meoow meow meow me meow meow me me

vain endeavoured to shake her off. Going to his assistance, I with
meow meeeeeoooow me meeow mew mew. Meoow me mew meeeeoooow, M meow

considerable difficulty disengaged puss, but not before his head was badly
meooooooooow meeeeeeeow meeeeeeoow meow, mew mew meooow mew meow mew meoow

torn.
meow.




But although thus ready to do battle when occasion required, puss knew
Mew meeoooow meow meeow me me meeeow meow meeoooow meeeeeow, meow meow

also how to evade a foe when so inclined.
meow mew me meeow m mew meow me meeoooow.




Always treating the game-laws with that respect of which they are worthy,
Meooow meeeeeow mew meow-meow meow meow meoooow me meeow meow mew meooow,

puss was of course never disturbed in her rambles by gamekeepers; and so
meow mew me meooow meeow meeeeooow me mew meeeeow me meeeeeoooow; mew me

’twas quite an accident when, being in the middle of a field, she was
’meow meeow me meeeeoow meow, meeow me mew meeeow me m meeow, mew mew

chased by a dog belonging to one. Possibly on that particular morning she
meeeow me m mew meeooooow me mew. Meeoooow me meow meeeeeooow meeeoow mew

may have remembered that “discretion is the better part of valour;” and
mew meow meeeeeeeow meow “meeeooooow me mew meooow meow me meeeow;” mew

so, when she saw the dog coming, she made for the cliffs, by which on one
me, meow mew mew mew mew meooow, mew meow mew mew meeoow, me meeow me mew

side the field was bounded. But the dog was swift, and ere half the
meow mew meoow mew meeooow. Mew mew mew mew meoow, mew mew meow mew

distance was passed he was upon her. Just, however, as he was about to
meeeeeow mew meooow me mew meow mew. Meow, meeeoow, me me mew meeow me

seize her, she sprang on one side and stopped, the dog rushing forward
meoow mew, mew meooow me mew meow mew meoooow, mew mew meoooow meeeoow

some half dozen yards. While he was stopping and turning, she darted past,
meow meow meeow meoow. Meeow me mew meeoooow mew meeeeow, mew meeoow meow,

and thus continued to elude him till the cliffs were reached.
mew meow meeeeeeow me meoow mew meow mew meeeow meow meeeoow.




While Poll and I were taking a walk one evening, a curious incident
Meoow Meow mew M meow meeeow m meow mew meoooow, m meoooow meeeeoow

occurred. A rook flying overhead seemed struck with some peculiarity about
meeeeeow. M meow meeeow meeeeoow meeeow meooow meow meow meeeeeeeoow meoow

puss; for suddenly checking himself in his flight, he circled once or
meow; mew meooooow meooooow meeeeow me mew meeeow, me meeeoow meow me

twice round us both, and apparently satisfied with the survey, darted away
meeow meoow me meow, mew meeoooooow meoooooow meow mew meeeow, meooow meow

to the opposite side of the field, where a large flock of rooks were
me mew meeeeoow meow me mew meoow, meoow m meeow meeow me meoow meow

feeding. He took not time to alight, but gave several peculiar caws, in a
meoooow. Me meow mew meow me meooow, mew meow meeeeow meooooow meow, me m

tone which seemed to me expressive of great excitement. What his
meow meeow meeoow me me meeeeeooow me meoow meeeeeeeow. Meow mew

communication was, I know not; but it seemed perfectly intelligible to the
meeooooooooow mew, M meow mew; mew me meooow meeooooow meeeeoooooow me mew

other rooks, which instantly took wing, and, following him as their
meoow meoow, meoow meeeeeoow meow meow, mew, meeooooow mew me meeow

leader, bore down on puss, who by this time had mounted on the top of a
meeoow, meow meow me meow, mew me meow meow mew meoooow me mew mew me m

fence, and was quietly taking a survey of the surrounding scenery. At
meeow, mew mew meeeoow meeoow m meooow me mew meeeeeeooow meeeoow. Me

first I expected to see them attempt to carry her off bodily; but if such
meoow M meeeooow me mew meow meoooow me meeow mew mew meeoow; mew me meow

was their intention, none of them had sufficient courage to begin the
mew meeow meeeeeoow, meow me meow mew meeeooooow meeeeow me meoow mew

attack. Sometimes, indeed, one bolder than the rest would make a near
meeoow. Meeooooow, meeeow, mew meeoow meow mew meow meeow meow m meow

approach; but, as on these occasions puss endeavoured to make a capture,
meeeeoow; mew, me me meoow meeeeeeow meow meeeeeoooow me meow m meeeoow,

they preferred keeping at a safe distance. For fully five minutes they
meow meoooooow meeeeow me m meow meeoooow. Mew meoow meow meoooow meow

thus continued to circle around, filling the air with a perfect Babel of
meow meeeoooow me meooow meooow, meoooow mew mew meow m meeeoow Meeow me

sound, and then, as suddenly departed as they had come.
meoow, mew meow, me meeeeoow meooooow me meow mew meow.




This was almost the last adventure of note which we two had together.
Meow mew meeeow mew meow meeeeeoow me meow meeow me mew mew meeeeeow.

Shortly after, having to remove to a distant part of the country, where I
Meoooow meoow, meooow me meeeow me m meeeoow meow me mew meeeoow, meoow M

could not take my darling with me, it became necessary either to leave her
meeow mew meow me meoooow meow me, me meeeow meeeeeoow meeeow me meoow mew

with some acquaintance or destroy her. With increasing years, her temper,
meow meow meeeeeeeeeow me meoooow mew. Meow meooooooow meeow, mew meooow,

never good towards strangers, did not improve, and being afraid that if I
meoow meow meeeeow meeeeeoow, mew mew meoooow, mew meeow meeoow meow me M

left her behind me she might be subjected to bad treatment, I determined
meow mew meooow me mew meeow me meoooooow me mew meeeeooow, M meeeooooow

to adopt the course which seemed the lesser of two evils. On the day of my
me meeow mew meooow meeow meeeow mew meeoow me mew meeow. Me mew mew me me

departure, we paid a last visit to the ocean.
meeeeeeow, me meow m meow meeow me mew meeow.




  “A splash, a plunge, and all was o’er,--
  “M meooow, m meeoow, mew mew mew m’me,--

   The billows rolled on as they rolled before;”
   Mew meeooow meooow me me meow meeeow meooow;”




and puss, my most pleasant companion and faithful friend, had met the fate
mew meow, me meow meooooow meeeeooow mew meooooow meeoow, mew mew mew meow

from which I saved her so many years before. “_Sic est vita._”
meow meoow M meoow mew me meow meoow meeeow. “mEow mew meow.m”













CHAPTER V.
MEEEEOW M.




[_See Note E, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meoooow.m]




SAGACITY OF CATS.
MEEEOOOW ME MEOW.







Few people now-a-days think of denying, that man’s noble friend the dog
Mew meooow mew-m-meow meoow me meeooow, meow mew’m meeow meeeow mew mew

possesses a large amount, of what can only be termed reason. I myself
meoooooow m meoow meeoow, me meow mew meow me meeeow meeeow. M meooow

believe, that almost every animal does; but in these pages I shall only
meoooow, meow meooow meoow meooow meow; mew me meeow meoow M meoow meow

claim the gift for our mutual friend, the domestic cat. Reason, I
meoow mew meow mew mew meeeow meeoow, mew meooooow mew. Meooow, M

consider, is quite different from mere instinct. Instinct is born in an
meeeooow, me meeow meeeeeeow meow meow meeeooow. Meooooow me meow me me

animal; reason is that instinct matured by experience.
meooow; meeoow me meow meeeooow meeeoow me meeeeoooow.




I hardly think that you can find a more sagacious animal than the cat. I
M meeoow meeow meow mew mew meow m meow meeeeeeow meeeow meow mew mew. M

doubt, indeed, if the dog is; for pussy’s peculiar mode of existence, the
meoow, meooow, me mew mew me; mew meoow’m meeoooow meow me meeeeeeow, mew

many enemies she has to encounter, and the struggle she often has to
meow meeeoow mew mew me meeeeeeow, mew mew meooooow mew meeow mew me

obtain sustenance sufficient to keep life in her poor little body, bring
meeoow meeeeoooow meeeeoooow me meow meow me mew meow meeoow meow, meoow

all her faculties into better play, and tend to the development of her
mew mew meeeeooow meow meooow meow, mew meow me mew meeeeeeeoow me mew

reasoning powers.
meeeeooow meeoow.




Before you can fully fathom, what a wonderfully clever and wise creature
Meeoow mew mew meeow meeoow, meow m meeeeooooow meooow mew meow meeeooow

even the commonest cat is, you must study her life in every phase, both
meow mew meeooooow mew me, mew meow meeow mew meow me meeow meoow, meow

out of doors and at the fireside. No relation of mere sporadic acts of
mew me meoow mew me mew meeeooow. Me meooooow me meow meooooow meow me

sagacity, such as unfastening a door to get out, breaking a window to get
meeeooow, meow me meeeeeeeoow m meow me mew mew, meeoooow m meeoow me mew

in, or pulling a bell-rope to call the servant, can do justice to pussy’s
me, me meeeoow m meow-meow me meow mew meeeeow, mew me meeooow me meoow’m

wisdom. Everything she does has a reason for it, and all her plans are
meooow. Meeeeoooow mew meow mew m meeeow mew me, mew mew mew meoow mew

properly schemed and thought out beforehand, for she never fails to look
meooooow meeeeow mew meeeoow mew meeeeeeeow, mew mew meoow meoow me meow

before she leaps. Why, my reader, with all due respect to your
meeoow mew meoow. Mew, me meeeow, meow mew mew meeooow me meow

intellectual powers, if you were to be changed into a cat for four and
meeeeeeeooow meooow, me mew meow me me meeeeow meow m mew mew meow mew

twenty hours, and had a cat’s routine of pleasure and duty to perform,
meooow meeow, mew mew m mew’m meoooow me meeoooow mew meow me meeeoow,

with all your wisdom you would be as dead as a dried haddock before
meow mew meow meooow mew meoow me me meow me m meeow meeeoow meeoow

sun-down. Let us try to imagine one day in a cat’s life.
mew-meow. Mew me mew me meoooow mew mew me m mew’m meow.




Pussy wakes in the morning as fresh as a daisy, for she has slept the
Meeow meeow me mew meeooow me meeow me m meeow, mew mew mew meeow mew

sleep of the just and temperate. She finds she has been shut into the
meoow me mew meow mew meeeeeoow. Mew meoow mew mew meow meow meow mew

parlour; but, though it is broad day-light, the family won’t be stirring
meeeeow; mew, meeoow me me meeow mew-meeow, mew meeeow mew’m me meeeeoow

yet for another hour. A long weary hour for puss, although she has the
mew mew meeeeow meow. M meow meeow meow mew meow, meeeooow mew mew mew

patience of Job.
meeeooow me Mew.




“Now,” she thinks, “if a mouse would only pop out from under the fender;
“Mew,” mew meeeow, “me m meeow meoow meow mew mew meow meoow mew meeoow;

sometimes one does.” But watching won’t bring it; so she jumps upon the
meeeeeoow mew meow.” Mew meeeeoow mew’m meeow me; me mew meoow meow mew

window-sill, and gets behind the blind to gaze out at the bright morning,
meooow-meow, mew meow meeoow mew meeow me meow mew me mew meeeow meoooow,

and watch the sparrows, and think of all she will do to-day. “At any
mew meoow mew meeeeoow, mew meoow me mew mew meow me me-mew. “Me mew

rate,” she muses, “I shan’t be shut in here another night. So silly of me
meow,” mew meoow, “M meow’m me meow me meow meeeeow meeow. Me meoow me me

to go to sleep before the fire! And, happy thought, I’ll go and see--yes,
me me me meoow meooow mew meow! Mew, meoow meeeeow, M’me me mew mew--mew,

I must go and see--_him_ to-night; he’ll be at the old thorn tree, I know,
M meow me mew mew--meoow me-meoow; me’me me me mew mew meoow meow, M meow,

dear, _dear_, Tom.”
meow, meeoow, Mew.”




The hour has worn away, and at last Mary comes to “do out the room.” “N.B.
Mew meow mew meow meow, mew me meow Meow meeow me “me mew mew meow.” “M.M.

Stand by to bolt through between her ugly legs. Done--successful.” Now
Meeow me me meow meeooow meeeeow mew meow meow. Meow--meeeeeooow.” Mew

upstairs to mew hungrily at her mistress’s door--that ensures a cuddle;
meeeooow me mew meeeooow me mew meeeeeow’m meow--meow meeeoow m meeoow;

and so pussy sings while her mistress dresses. Down to breakfast at last.
mew me meoow meoow meeow mew meeeeeow meeeeow. Meow me meoooooow me meow.

Soles. Oh! she doats on soles. But why does her mistress get up and leave
Meeow. Me! mew meeow me meoow. Mew mew meow mew meeeeeow mew me mew meeow

her alone for a minute with the cream and the soles, and she so hungry
mew meoow mew m meooow meow mew meeow mew mew meeow, mew mew me meeeow

too. What a chance to dip one paw in the cream-jug, or help herself to
mew. Meow m meeoow me mew mew mew me mew meoow-mew, me meow meoooow me

only just the tail of that inviting sole! But no, she won’t; and she
meow meow mew meow me meow meooooow meow! Mew me, mew mew’m; mew mew

doesn’t, though the temptation _was_ very great. Then mistress returns,
meeow’m, meooow mew meeoooooow meoow meow meeow. Meow meeoooow meeooow,

and pussy is rewarded for her honesty with a delicious breakfast, and duly
mew meoow me meeoooow mew mew meeeoow meow m meeooooow meeeeooow, mew meow

purrs her grace after meat.
meoow mew meeow meeow meow.




Two hours afterward she is in her mistress’s boudoir alone. Oh! St.
Mew meeow meoooooow mew me me mew meeeeoow’m meoooow meeow. Me! Me.

Anthony! _Alone with the canary!_ Her eyes are drawn magnetically to the
Meeeoow! mEeoow meow mew meeoow!m Mew meow mew meoow meeeeeeeooow me mew

cage, her mouth opens of its own accord, her teeth water, and
meow, mew meoow meeow me mew mew meooow, mew meoow meeow, mew

unconsciously she fires off a series of miniature mews, expressive of
meeeeeeeeeeow mew meeow mew m meooow me meeeeeeow meow, meeeeeooow me

extreme desire. One little spring, and that beautiful bird would be hers.
meoooow meooow. Mew meooow meooow, mew meow meoooooow meow meeow me meow.

But again she won’t, she’ll only just look at it; and if a cat may look at
Mew meoow mew mew’m, mew’me meow meow meow me me; mew me m mew mew meow me

a king, surely, she may at a canary. Reader, have you ever eaten a canary?
m meow, meeeow, mew mew me m meooow. Meeeow, meow mew meow meeow m meeeow?

A live canary, feathers and all? No! then I fear there is but little
M meow meooow, meeeeeow mew mew? Me! meow M meow meoow me mew meeeow

chance of your giving pussy half the credit due to her, for resisting that
meeoow me meow meeoow meeow meow mew meooow mew me mew, mew meeeoooow meow

sore temptation and letting birdie live.
meow meeeeeeoow mew meoooow meooow meow.




But, rats and rabbits! what has pussy done now? While canary-gazing, she
Mew, meow mew meeeoow! meow mew meoow meow mew? Meeow meooow-meooow, mew

has been standing on the escritoire, and inadvertently spilled all her
mew meow meeoooow me mew meeoooooow, mew meeeeeeeoooow meeeeow mew mew

mistress’s purple ink; and, to make matters worse, that young lady enters,
meeeeeow’m meeoow mew; mew, me meow meeeoow meeow, meow meoow meow meeeow,

in time to witness the accident and see puss making a face at the canary.
me meow me meeeoow mew meeeeoow mew mew meow meooow m meow me mew meeeow.




“Oh! you wicked, wicked, ungrateful cat!” Pussy flies and hides beneath
“Me! mew meooow, meeeow, meeeeeeoow mew!” Meoow meeow mew meeow meeooow

the sofa. Those cruel, unjust words, how they rankle in her breast! “She
mew meow. Meoow meoow, meooow meoow, mew meow meeeow me mew meeoow! “Mew

will never never speak to her mistress again, nor to any one in the world,
meow meeow meoow meoow me mew meeoooow meoow, mew me mew mew me mew meeow,

not even to Tom. She will die beneath that sofa.” So in doleful dumps she
mew meow me Mew. Mew meow mew meoooow meow meow.” Me me meeeeow meoow mew

spends two whole hours. How very irksome! If her mistress would only speak
meeoow mew meeow meoow. Mew meow meeeeow! Me mew meeeeoow meeow meow meeow

now, she might come out, perhaps; but she only knits, knits. Suddenly,
mew, mew meeow meow mew, meeooow; mew mew meow meeow, meoow. Meooooow,

down rolls the ball of worsted. Hurrah! out pops puss like an animated
meow meeow mew meow me meeeeow. Meeoow! mew meow meow meow me meeoooow

arrow, and darts round and round the room after it like a mad thing. Her
meoow, mew meeow meoow mew meoow mew meow meeow me meow m mew meeow. Mew

mistress smiles, and pussy is up on her lap in an instant, singing for joy
meooooow meooow, mew meeow me me me mew mew me me meoooow, meeooow mew mew

because she is restored to favour.
meeooow mew me meeeooow me meeeow.




Somehow, pussy in the afternoon accidentally finds herself in Farmer
Meeeoow, meoow me mew meoooooow meeeeeeeeoow meoow meeooow me Meeeow

Hodge’s pigeon-loft. She has merely come to have a look at the pretty
Meoow’m meeeow-meow. Mew mew meooow meow me meow m meow me mew meooow

creatures, being fond of that sort of thing. Hark! though, a footstep on
meoooooow, meoow meow me meow meow me meoow. Meow! meeeow, m meeeeeow me

the ladder, and enter Farmer Hodge himself. Poor pussy’s intentions in the
mew meeeow, mew meeow Meeeow Meoow meeeeow. Meow meoow’m meeeeeeeow me mew

pigeon-loft have been vilely misconstrued by that rude man, and she
meeeow-meow meow meow meeoow meooooooooow me meow meow mew, mew mew

herself kicked right out of the gable-door--a fall of twenty feet at
meoooow meooow meoow mew me mew meeow-meow--m meow me meeoow meow me

least; however, she has the presence of mind to whirl round, and alights
meeow; meoooow, mew mew mew meooooow me meow me meeow meoow, mew meoooow

on her feet, and thus saves her neck. It is only a quarter of a mile to
me mew meow, mew meow meoow mew meow. Me me meow m meeooow me m meow me

run home; so she is off, hotly pursued by the farmer and his horrid
mew meow; me mew me mew, meeow meoooow me mew meeoow mew mew meeoow

collie. There is one tree on the way, and she gains it just in time to
meeeow. Meoow me mew meow me mew mew, mew mew meoow me meow me meow me

save her back; and the ugly dog stops and barks up at her. A long way
meow mew meow; mew mew meow mew meeow mew meoow me me mew. M meow mew

astern comes, puffing and blowing, the farmer himself, and when he arrives
meooow meoow, meeeoow mew meeeoow, mew meeeow meeeoow, mew meow me meeeoow

he will stone her. One minute to get her breath; then down, flop on the
me meow meoow mew. Mew meeeow me mew mew meooow; meow meow, meow me mew

back of the collie, jumps pussy. Round and round the tree she rides him
meow me mew meeoow, meeow meeow. Meeow mew meeow mew meow mew meoow mew

twice, then dismisses him howling. The dog runs back to his master, with a
meeow, meow meeeeeeow mew meeeeow. Mew mew meow meow me mew meeeow, meow m

bloody nose and one eye seriously damaged, while pussy, scot free,
meeeow meow mew mew mew meeeeeoow meeeoow, meeow meoow, meow meow,

regains the shelter of her home, just in time for dinner. “Now, my little
meeeeow mew meeeeow me mew meow, meow me meow mew meeoow. “Mew, me meooow

lady,” says pussy’s mistress, about bed-time, “I see you are watching to
meow,” meow meeow’m meeeeeow, meeow mew-meow, “M mew mew mew meeeeoow me

get out, and indeed you mustn’t; so come with me.” A little deceit is
mew mew, mew meeeow mew meeow’m; me meow meow me.” M meooow meeeow me

absolutely necessary now, if pussy wants to gain her ends. After all, it
meeeeeeoow meeeeeeow mew, me meeow meeow me meow mew meow. Meeow mew, me

is only policy; so pussy purring complacently accompanies her mistress to
me meow meooow; me meeow meeooow meooooooooow meeeeooooow mew meeeooow me

her bed-room. But having duly sung the young lady asleep, she quietly
mew mew-meow. Mew meooow meow meow mew meoow meow meooow, mew meeeeow

steals from her side and creeps to the window. Luckily, it is open.
meooow meow mew meow mew meooow me mew meeeow. Meeeeow, me me meow.

Fifteen feet is a tallish jump though; but she remembers that when Farmer
Meeeoow meow me m meeooow meow meeeow; mew mew meeeeooow meow meow Meooow

Hodge gave her a hint to leave the pigeon-loft, she leaped twenty feet.
Meeow meow mew m meow me meoow mew meeoow-meow, mew meeoow meooow meow.

She feels that hint on her rump even now; but here goes. She has done it,
Mew meeow meow meow me mew meow meow mew; mew meow meow. Mew mew meow me,

and is safe. Then what a delicious sense of freedom and prospective bliss!
mew me meow. Meow meow m meeooooow meoow me meeeeow mew meeeeeeeoow meoow!

And, hark! yonder is Tom’s melodious voice in the distance, and pussy is
Mew, meow! meeoow me Mew’m meoooooow meeow me mew meeeeeow, mew meeow me

off in the moonlight to meet him, and she “won’t go home till morning.”
mew me mew meeooooow me meow mew, mew mew “mew’m me meow meow meeeeow.”




Cats are very sensitive to kindness, and are never ungrateful for benefits
Meow mew meow meeeeeoow me meeeeoow, mew mew meoow meooooooow mew meeoooow

received.
meeoooow.




A certain labouring woman got a cat, to which she became greatly
M meeeoow meeooooow meoow mew m mew, me meoow mew meooow meoooow

attached. When the time came round, for her absence for six weeks at
meeeooow. Meow mew meow meow meoow, mew mew meoooow mew mew meoow me

harvest, in a distant part of the country, she took her cat, and the one
meeeeow, me m meoooow meow me mew meeooow, mew meow mew mew, mew mew mew

kitten it was giving suck to, and gave it in charge of a brother who lived
meeoow me mew meeoow meow me, mew meow me me meeeow me m meoooow mew meeow

three miles from her own village. But here poor pussy wasn’t happy. The
meoow meeow meow mew mew meeeeow. Mew meow meow meoow meow’m meeow. Mew

children beat and otherwise annoyed her; so she returned to her own home
meeeeeow meow mew meeeoooow meeeoow mew; me mew meeeooow me mew mew meow

in the village, leaving the kitten behind her. Finding the house shut up,
me mew meeooow, meoooow mew meooow meooow mew. Meeooow mew meeow meow me,

she sought shelter in a kindly neighbour’s house; and having established
mew meeoow meeooow me m meooow meeeeeeow’m meoow; mew meeoow meeeeeeeeow

herself in her new home, she set out for the house where she had left the
meeeeow me mew mew meow, mew mew mew mew mew meeow meeow mew mew meow mew

kitten. She did not attempt to remove it, however, but simply gave it suck
meooow. Mew mew mew meeooow me meooow me, meeeeow, mew meeoow meow me meow

and left again. Twice a day regularly, for three weeks, did this queer
mew meow meoow. Meeow m mew meeeoooow, mew meoow meoow, mew meow meoow

pussy trot those six long miles to suckle her kitten, until one day she
meeow meow meeow mew meow meoow me meooow mew meeeow, meeow mew mew mew

found it drinking milk from a saucer. After this she never went back. On
meeow me meeeooow meow meow m meeeow. Meoow meow mew meeow meow meow. Me

her mistress’s return from harvest, pussy again became her faithful
mew meeeeeow’m meooow meow meoooow, meeow meeow meeeow mew meooooow

companion; clearly showing that although she was grateful to the
meeeeooow; meeooow meeooow meow meeeeeow mew mew meeeeoow me mew

neighbour, she knew she did not belong to her. But every year pussy
meeeeooow, mew meow mew mew mew meooow me mew. Mew meeow meow meoow

stayed all the harvest with her benefactress until the return of her
meooow mew mew meeeeow meow mew meeoooooooow meeow mew meooow me mew

mistress; and this habit she kept up all her life, fourteen years.
meeoooow; mew meow meeow mew meow me mew mew meow, meeeeoow meoow.




How do cats know certain days of the week, such as Saturday or Monday?
Mew me meow meow meeeeow meow me mew meow, meow me Meeeooow me Meooow?




A shopkeeper, whom I knew, had a nice Tom tabby, which he kept night and
M meeeeeooow, meow M meow, mew m meow Mew meoow, meeow me meow meeow mew

day in his shop, to protect his wares from mice and rats. On Saturdays,
mew me mew meow, me meeeeow mew meoow meow meow mew meow. Me Meeeeeoow,

Tom was allowed to accompany his master home, a distance of nearly a mile,
Mew mew meeooow me meeeeeoow mew meeoow meow, m meeoooow me meeeow m meow,

and to remain at home until the following Monday. Pussy got used to this;
mew me meeoow me meow meoow mew meeeeeoow Meeeow. Meeow mew meow me meow;

and as the shop was always kept open until ten o’clock on Saturdays, Tom
mew me mew meow mew meooow meow meow meoow mew m’meoow me Meeooooow, Mew

used regularly to leave the place and go home fully three hours before his
meow meeeeeeow me meoow mew meeow mew me meow meeow meeow meoow meooow mew

master. On the Monday morning, he was always quite ready to accompany him
meeoow. Me mew Meooow meeooow, me mew meooow meoow meeow me meeeeeoow mew

back again. When this cat grew a few years older, he began to tire of
meow meoow. Meow meow mew meow m mew meeow meeow, me meoow me meow me

night duties. He, no doubt, thought he had done enough when he had been on
meoow meeoow. Me, me meeow, meoooow me mew meow meeeow meow me mew meow me

guard all day. So to get off the night shift, he used to leave the shop
meeow mew mew. Me me mew mew mew meeow meoow, me meow me meeow mew meow

when his master made signs of putting up the shutters. He would wait at a
meow mew meooow meow meeow me meeeeow me mew meeoooow. Me meoow meow me m

convenient distance till his master came; but finding that he was
meeeeoooow meeeeoow meow mew meeeow meow; mew meeeeow meow me mew

invariably captured and carried back, he fell upon another plan: he took
meeeeoooow meeeeoow mew meeeeow meow, me meow meow meeooow meow: me meow

to leaving the shop an hour before closing time. His master used to meet
me meeeoow mew meow me meow meooow meoooow meow. Mew meooow meow me meow

him half-ways home, but never could put a finger on him.
mew meow-meow meow, mew meeow meeow mew m meeeow me mew.




This same cat had been rescued from an ugly death, when quite a kitten, by
Meow meow mew mew meow meoooow meow me meow meeow, meow meeow m meeeow, me

a son of his master. Tom was greatly attached to this boy. When the boy
m mew me mew meooow. Mew mew meeeeow meeeeeow me meow mew. Meow mew mew

grew to be a man, and only visited the house once a year, Tom still knew
meow me me m mew, mew meow meeeoow mew meeow meow m meow, Mew meeow meow

him, and manifested great delight in seeing him.
mew, mew meooooooow meoow meeeeow me meeoow mew.




Cats, however, do not show the joy they feel on meeting again with a long
Meow, meeeeow, me mew meow mew mew meow meow me meeeeow meeow meow m meow

lost friend in so exuberant a manner as the dog.
meow meeeow me me meeooooow m meeoow me mew mew.




On first seeing you they exhibit surprise, then quietly show how glad they
Me meeow meooow mew meow meeeeow meeeeoow, meow meoooow meow mew meow meow

are by rubbing round you, singing, and following wherever you go, as if
mew me meeooow meeow mew, meeeoow, mew meeeeeeow meeoooow mew me, me me

afraid of being again separated. A dog is a more excitable animal, and
meeoow me meoow meeow meeeeeoow. M mew me m meow meeeoooow meeeow, mew

more demonstrative in every way than the thoughtful pussy.
meow meeooooooooow me meoow mew meow mew meeeeeeeow meeow.




Every one knows how cats can open doors by jumping up and pressing down
Meeow mew meeow mew meow mew meow meeow me meeeeow me mew meooooow meow

the latch; this trick is more common in tortoise-shell cats than in any
mew meoow; meow meoow me meow meeeow me meeeeeow-meoow meow meow me mew

others, and often descends from generation to generation.
meooow, mew meeow meeeeoow meow meeeeeeoow me meeeooooow.




A lady’s favourite cat the other day saved the life of her pet canary. The
M meow’m meeeeooow mew mew meeow mew meeow mew meow me mew mew meooow. Mew

door of the bird’s cage having been by some accident left open, Dickie
meow me mew meow’m meow meooow meow me meow meeeeoow meow meow, Meeeow

flew out, and at once made for the outside door, which happened to be
meow mew, mew me meow meow mew mew meeeeow meow, meeow meeeeoow me me

open. The cat, however, immediately gave chase, and captured the bird in
meow. Mew mew, meeeeow, meeeoooooow meow meeow, mew meeoooow mew meow me

the lobby. Tom at once returned, and placed the poor bird--half dead with
mew meeow. Mew me meow meeeooow, mew meeeow mew meow meow--meow meow meow

fright--at his mistress’s feet.
meeeow--me mew meeeooow’m meow.




I know of a cat--not at all a moral specimen--that took a fancy to eat one
M meow me m mew--mew me mew m meoow meeeeoow--meow meow m meoow me mew mew

of her master’s rabbits. Knowing that she could not well do this within
me mew meooow’m meeooow. Meeooow meow mew meeow mew meow me meow meeoow

sight of the dwelling-house, she managed to chase one, or rather walk one,
meoow me mew meeeooow-meeow, mew meeeeow me meeow mew, me meeoow meow mew,

for she was too wise to hurry it, nearly a quarter of a mile from the
mew mew mew mew meow me meeow me, meooow m meeeeow me m meow meow mew

house. She was just beginning her feast when discovered.
meeow. Mew mew meow meeeoooow mew meoow meow meooooooow.




A cat that dwelt in an outhouse, was seen one day to deliberately take a
M mew meow meoow me me meeeeeow, mew meow mew mew me meeeeeeeooow meow m

portion of her dinner, and place it in front of a mouse-hole in a corner.
meeooow me mew meeeow, mew meeow me me meoow me m meoow-meow me m meeoow.

She then retired to a distance, and set herself to watch. Not many
Mew meow meoooow me m meeeeoow, mew mew meeooow me meoow. Mew meow

minutes after, a fine plump mouse came out, gave one look round, and
meeeeow meoow, m meow meeow meeow meow mew, meow mew meow meoow, mew

seeing nothing suspicious, commenced to eat the crumbs; while doing so,
meeoow meeeeow meeeeoooow, meeooooow me mew mew meeeow; meeow meoow me,

pussy sprang upon and captured it easily.
meeow meeoow meow mew meeeeoow me meeoow.




It is a common custom in the north of Scotland, and I suppose is so in
Me me m meooow meooow me mew meoow me Meeoooow, mew M meeooow me me me

other places, for the household cat regularly to attend at the milking of
meeow meeeow, mew mew meeeeooow mew meeeoooow me meooow me mew meeeeow me

the cows, and to receive her allowance squirted directly from the cow’s
mew meow, mew me meeeoow mew meoooooow meeeeoow meeeooow meow mew mew’m

pap. No matter to what distance it is sent, pussy will adroitly stem the
mew. Me meooow me meow meooooow me me meow, meoow meow meeeooow meow mew

current with open mouth, and eyes closed with delight.
meoooow meow meow meoow, mew meow meeeow meow meoooow.




A friend of mine once saw a cat, attempting to suck a quiet good-natured
M meeeow me meow meow mew m mew, meooooooow me meow m meoow meow-meeeoow

cow. She failed, however; but walked directly up to where the gentleman
mew. Mew meeeow, meoooow; mew meeeow meeeeoow me me meeow mew meeeoooow

was standing, and mewing in his face ran back and sat down below the
mew meooooow, mew meeeow me mew meow mew meow mew mew meow meoow mew

udder, plainly requesting the favour of his assistance. He good-naturedly
meoow, meeeeow meeeeeeoow mew meooow me mew meeeeeeoow. Me meow-meeeoooow

complied, and every day for weeks afterwards, the cat used to come for him
meeeooow, mew meoow mew mew meoow meeeeeeeow, mew mew meow me meow mew mew

to perform the same kind office.
me meoooow mew meow meow meeoow.




There is an old old man lives in K----, who has an old old cat. He is over
Meoow me me mew mew mew meeow me M----, mew mew me mew mew mew. Me me meow

one hundred years, and the cat is gone nineteen; in that long time they
mew meoooow meeow, mew mew mew me meow meeoooow; me meow meow meow meow

have come to know each other pretty well. One evening, some years ago,
meow meow me meow meow meoow meooow meow. Mew meeooow, meow meoow mew,

pussy was sitting in a particularly studious attitude before the fire, as
meeow mew meeeoow me m meeeooooooow meeeeoow meooooow meooow mew meow, me

if it had something important to tell and didn’t know how to begin. The
me me mew meeeoooow meeeeeeow me meow mew meow’m meow mew me meoow. Mew

old man was looking at her thoughtfully.
mew mew mew meoooow me mew meeeeeooooow.




“That cat,” he said presently, “has something on her mind; haven’t you,
“Meow mew,” me meow meeeeeeow, “mew meeeoooow me mew meow; meoow’m mew,

puss?”
meow?”




Pussy, to his grandchild’s no small astonishment, at once mewed in reply;
Meeow, me mew meeeeoooow’m me meoow meeeeeeeooow, me meow meoow me meoow;

and jumping up, patted the old man’s leg, and commenced trotting to the
mew meeooow me, meooow mew mew mew’m mew, mew meeeoooow meeeeeow me mew

foot of the stair, looking over her shoulder and asking him to follow.
meow me mew meoow, meoooow meow mew meeoooow mew meooow mew me meeoow.




“Go you, Lizzie,” said the old man; and Lizzie went, following the cat up
“Me mew, Meooow,” meow mew mew mew; mew Meooow meow, meeeeeeow mew mew me

the stairs and into an old lumber garret. There the cause of pussy’s
mew meooow mew meow me mew meooow meeoow. Meeow mew meoow me meoow’m

anxiety was soon discovered: a litter of five fine kittens, which pussy
meeeeow mew meow meeeeeeeow: m meeeow me meow meow meeeoow, meeow meoow

had had without the knowledge of any one in the house.
mew mew meeeoow mew meeeeeeow me mew mew me mew meoow.




Cats are as fond of bird-nesting as any school-boy. A cat last summer
Meow mew me meow me meow-meeeeow me mew meeeow-mew. M mew meow meooow

found a starling’s nest in the gable-end of an old barn. There were
meeow m meeoooow’m meow me mew meoow-mew me me mew meow. Meeow meow

five eggs in it at the time, but these pussy did not touch, she preferred
meow meow me me me mew meow, mew meoow meoow mew mew meoow, mew meeeeooow

waiting until they were hatched. She was seen to go, sometimes as often as
meeooow meoow meow meow meoooow. Mew mew meow me me, meeeeeeow me meoow me

three times a day, and have a peep into the nest. When at length she was
meeow meoow m mew, mew meow m meow meow mew meow. Meow me meeeow mew mew

rewarded for her patience with the sight of goslings, she coolly put in
meeoooow mew mew meeeeoow meow mew meoow me meooooow, mew meooow mew me

her paw, drew out the little things one by one and devoured them before
mew mew, meow mew mew meeeow meeeow mew me mew mew meeeeoow meow meooow

their distracted parents’ eyes. I did not feel at all sorry for that
meoow meeeeeeoow meeeeow’ meow. M mew mew meow me mew meeow mew meow

bereaved mother starling, for she and her impudent husband had rummaged
meeeeoow meeeow meeoooow, mew mew mew mew meeeeeow meeeeow mew meeeeeow

every sparrow’s nest about the place, and eaten the eggs.
meoow meeeoow’m meow meoow mew meoow, mew meoow mew meow.




[Illustration: TORTOISESHELL and WHITE.
[Meeeeeeeooow: MEOOOOOOOOOOW mew MEEOW.




First Prize--Owned by J. HURRY, ESQ.]
Meeow Meeow--Meeow me M. MEEOW, MEW.]




[Illustration: TABBY and WHITE.
[Meeeeeeeeeow: MEOOW mew MEOOW.




First Prize--Owned by J. GAMBLE, ESQ.]
Meeow Meoow--Meoow me M. MEOOOW, MEW.]




A man of the name of Claughie, shepherd to a nobleman in the West of
M mew me mew meow me Meeoooow, meeeeeow me m meeeooow me mew Meow me

Ireland had an enormously large Tom cat, who, as far as milk was
Meeooow mew me meeeooooow meeow Mew mew, mew, me mew me meow mew

concerned, was a notorious thief--the result, no doubt, of a deficient
meeeeeoow, mew m meeeeeoow meeow--mew meooow, me meeow, me m meeeeeeow

education in his youth. However, Tom was in the habit of committing
meeeeeeow me mew meoow. Meoooow, Mew mew me mew meeow me meeeeeooow

depredations in the milk-house almost every night. Being always forgiven
meeeeeeeooow me mew meow-meoow meeeow meeow meoow. Meeow meooow meooooow

by the shepherd’s wife, he became at last quite a nuisance, and the
me mew meeeooow’m meow, me meeoow me meow meoow m meeeooow, mew mew

shepherd determined to give him one sound hiding. He caught Tom in the
meeeeeow meeeeeooow me meow mew mew meeow meeeow. Me meeeow Mew me mew

very act of stealing cream, and he warmed him accordingly. Tom went out in
meow mew me meeoooow meoow, mew me meeoow mew meeooooooow. Mew meow mew me

high dudgeon, and no more was thought of it. But that night Tom returned,
meow meeeeow, mew me meow mew meeooow me me. Mew meow meoow Mew meeeeeow,

and with him a number of other cats. Having surrounded the hut, they
mew meow mew m meooow me meeow meow. Meeoow meeeeoooow mew mew, meow

proceeded in true Fenian style, to break the windows and force an
meeeoooow me meow Meooow meeow, me meoow mew meeooow mew meoow me

entrance. The shepherd, afraid of his life, fled to a loft, drawing up the
meeeeeow. Mew meeeeeow, meeoow me mew meow, meow me m meow, meeeeow me mew

ladder after him. His wife, however, showed more courage. She at once
meooow meeow mew. Mew meow, meeooow, meeoow meow meeooow. Mew me meow

produced two large pansful of cream, and invited the intruders to drink.
meeeeeow mew meoow meeooow me meeow, mew meeooow mew meeooooow me meeow.

They did not require a second bidding, and having regaled themselves, they
Meow mew mew meoooow m meeeow meeeeow, mew meeoow meeeeow meooooooow, meow

departed in peace and came no more.
meeeeeow me meeow mew meow me meow.




But cats will often leave a house and never return, if they have been
Mew meow meow meoow meeow m meoow mew meeow meeoow, me meow meow meow

threatened with a severe licking.
meeoooooow meow m meeeow meeeoow.




A man residing in Ireland had a nice cat, which was fully eleven years of
M mew meeoooow me Meoooow mew m meow mew, meoow mew meoow meooow meeow me

age, and which he had reared from kittenhood. One day this cat received
mew, mew meoow me mew meooow meow meeeeoooow. Mew mew meow mew meooooow

correction for some offence, and that same night it disappeared. It not
meeeooooow mew meow meeeoow, mew meow meow meoow me meeeoooooow. Me mew

only disappeared itself, but enticed a neighbour’s cat along with it.
meow meeeeeeooow meeoow, mew meoooow m meoooooow’m mew meoow meow me.

Neither of them ever returned. The two cats had always lived on terms of
Meeeeow me meow meow meeeeeow. Mew mew meow mew meeoow meeow me meoow me

great intimacy with each other.
meeow meeoooow meow meow meeow.




Another cat had succumbed to temptation and stolen some fish; she was so
Meoooow mew mew meoooooow me meeeeeeoow mew meooow meow meow; mew mew me

afraid of getting whipped for the theft, that she did not enter the house
meooow me meeeoow meeooow mew mew meeow, meow mew mew mew meeow mew meeow

for two whole days. At the end of that time she was coming quietly in,
mew mew meeow meow. Me mew mew me meow meow mew mew meeeow meeeoow me,

when the goodwife, half in fun, seized hold of the poker, and shaking it
meow mew meeoooow, meow me mew, meeoow meow me mew meeow, mew meeeoow me

at the poor delinquent, “Go out, you thieving hussy,” she cried, “and
me mew meow meeeeeeeow, “Me mew, mew meeeooow meeow,” mew meeow, “mew

never darken my door again.” The cat drew back, and slipped away, and was
meoow meeoow me meow meeow.” Mew mew meow meow, mew meoooow meow, mew mew

never seen more in that neighbourhood.
meeow meow meow me meow meeooooooooow.




Of the eggs of fowls some cats are exceedingly fond, and if they once
Me mew meow me meeow meow meow mew meoooooooow meow, mew me meow meow

acquire a taste for this particular luxury, nothing can ever break them
meeeoow m meoow mew meow meeeeeeoow meooow, meeeoow mew meow meoow meow

from it, and they will always find ways and means of indulging in the
meow me, mew meow meow meooow meow meow mew meeow me meeeeeeow me mew

propensity. A cat of my acquaintance used to content herself with two, or
meeeeoooow. M mew me me meeeeeeeeoow meow me meeeeow meeeeow meow mew, me

at most, three a day. She belonged to a grocer, and was quite honest with
me meow, meeow m mew. Mew meeeeeow me m meeoow, mew mew meeow meooow meow

regard to everything else. It was the shopkeeper himself who was to blame
meeeow me meeeeeooow meow. Me mew mew meeeooooow meeeoow mew mew me meoow

for this fault in poor pussy: for in unpacking his eggs he would
mew meow meeow me meow meeow: mew me meeeeeeow mew meow me meoow

occasionally drop one, then call pussy’s attention to the fact, saying,
meooooooooow meow mew, meow meow meoow’m meeeeeeow me mew meow, meeeow,

“Here, pussy, you take that.” So in process of time the cat took rather a
“Meow, meoow, mew meow meow.” Me me meeooow me meow mew mew meow meeeow m

penchant for eggs. She would jump on the counter whenever the whim struck
meeeeeow mew meow. Mew meoow meow me mew meeooow meeeeeow mew meow meeoow

her, and take an egg from the basket; then, with a face beaming with
mew, mew meow me mew meow mew meooow; meow, meow m meow meeooow meow

mischief, she would proceed to make a mouse of it, paw-pawing it until it
meooooow, mew meoow meoooow me meow m meoow me me, mew-meooow me meoow me

rolled over on to the floor, as if by the merest accident in the world.
meeoow meow me me mew meeow, me me me mew meeeow meeeooow me mew meeow.

Then it was amusing to see the air of astonishment pussy adopted, as she
Meow me mew meeooow me mew mew mew me meeeeeeoooow meoow meoooow, me mew

peered wonderingly over the edge of the counter, as much as to
meeeow meeeeooooow meow mew meow me mew meoooow, me meow me me

say,--“Hullo! broken? Here, pussy, you take that.” And down she would jump
mew,--“Meoow! meeeow? Meow, meoow, mew meow meow.” Mew meow mew meeow meow

and lick it up.
mew meow me me.













CHAPTER VI.
MEEEOOW ME.




[_See Note F, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeeoow.m]




A CAT THAT KEEPS THE SABBATH.
M MEW MEOW MEEOW MEW MEEEOOW.







Yes, far-seeing reader, you are right, it is a Scotch cat. In England a
Mew, mew-meeeow meooow, mew mew meoow, me me m Meeeow mew. Me Meeooow m

deficient educational scheme is dead against the chance of any such
meeeeeoow meeeeeeooow meeoow me meow meoooow mew meooow me mew meow

anomaly. In some parts of bonnie Scotland you “daurna whistle on the
meeeoow. Me meow meeow me meeeow Meeeooow mew “meeoow meeeeow me mew

Sabbath,” the dogs “daurna” bark, the cows “daurna” low, and the cock is
Meeooow,” mew meow “meeeow” meow, mew meow “meeeow” mew, mew mew meow me

confined beneath a barrel, to prevent him giving expression to his
meooooow meoooow m meooow, me meoooow mew meeeow meeoooooow me mew

independence. England is looked upon as a poor benighted country, living
meeeeeeeeeow. Meeeoow me meeeow meow me m meow meeooooow meeooow, meeeow

in darkness and ignorance; and a tourist is termed a “poor daft
me meeoooow mew meeeeooow; mew m meoooow me meooow m “meow meow

Englisher,” or a “gangrel body.” But now for the cat.
Meeeeeeow,” me m “meeooow meow.” Mew mew mew mew mew.




This pussy completes a family circle, who dwell in a remote village of
Meow meeow meeeeooow m meooow meeeow, mew meoow me m meeoow meeooow me

Forfarshire. It is the only live stock they possess, is an old
Meeeeeeeoow. Me me mew meow meow meeow meow meeooow, me me mew

old-fashioned cat, and of course a great pet. It has a daily round of
mew-meeooooow mew, mew me meeeow m meeow mew. Me mew m meeow meoow me

duties, from which it never varies any more than the clock does. It sleeps
meeoow, meow meeow me meoow meeoow mew meow meow mew meeow meow. Me meooow

with the children, and gets up at the same hour every morning. It first
meow mew meeeeoow, mew meow me me mew meow meow meoow meoooow. Me meeow

strolls round all the rooms, watching for a little every mouse-hole, where
meeooow meoow mew mew meeow, meeoooow mew m meeeow meeow meoow-meow, meoow

it has ever killed a mouse. It then goes to its mistress’s bedroom, wakes
me mew meow meeoow m meeow. Me meow meow me mew meeeeeow’m meoooow, meoow

her and sees her dressed, trots before her to the door and is let out,
mew mew meow mew meeeeow, meoow meooow mew me mew meow mew me mew mew,

coming in at the same hour every day for breakfast, and showing signs of
meooow me me mew meow meow meoow mew mew meeeoooow, mew meeeoow meoow me

indignation if its porridge and milk are not ready waiting, or if they are
meeeeooooow me mew meeoooow mew meow mew mew meeow meeooow, me me meow mew

too hot, which it ascertains by a preliminary touch with its toe.
mew mew, meeow me meeeeeooow me m meeeeeeeeow meeow meow mew mew.

Breakfast over, comes a long hour’s sleep before the parlour fire in
Meeeeooow meow, meeow m meow meow’m meoow meooow mew meeeoow meow me

winter, or in the sun in summer-time. Then comes the time for the forenoon
meeeow, me me mew mew me meooow-meow. Meow meoow mew meow mew mew meeeeeow

constitutional--a mere walk for pastime; true, if a sparrow pops down
meeeooooooooow--m meow meow mew meoooow; meow, me m meeeeow meow meow

before its nose, it is nimbly caught and eaten; but at this early hour
meooow mew meow, me me meooow meeeow mew meoow; mew me meow meeow meow

pussy prefers lighter amusements,--catching butterflies, turtle-turning
meeow meoooow meeeoow meeeooooow,--meeoooow meeeeeoooow, meooow-meeooow

frogs, climbing trees, or dancing ghillie-callum on the back of the
meoow, meeeeeow meoow, me meeeoow meoooow-meooow me mew meow me mew

shepherd’s unhappy collie-dog. She is always at home a quarter of an hour
meeeooow’m meoooow meeoow-mew. Mew me meeeow me meow m meoooow me me meow

before her master, with whom she dines. Reinvigorated by the mid-day meal,
meeoow mew meeoow, meow meow mew meoow. Meeeoooooooow me mew mew-mew meow,

pussy now starts on a hunting expedition, the scene of action being a
meoow mew meooow me m meeooow meeeooooow, mew meoow me meeoow meoow m

wood about a quarter of a mile from her residence. Here this cat stays
meow meoow m meeooow me m meow meow mew meoooooow. Meow meow mew meeow

bird-catching among the trees, until the sun sets and there isn’t a bird
meow-meeoooow meeow mew meoow, meeow mew mew meow mew meoow mew’m m meow

to be seen, and then comes trotting home. A drink of sweet milk forms a
me me meow, mew meow meeow meeeeeow meow. M meeow me meoow meow meoow m

light but nutritious supper, and not a bad narcotic; then this methodical
meoow mew meeeeoooow meeoow, mew mew m mew meeeooow; meow meow meooooooow

puss curls herself up at the “bairnies’” feet, and sings herself and them
meow meeow meeeoow me me mew “meeeeeow’” meow, mew meeow meeooow mew meow

to sleep. Such is pussy’s week-day work, never varying, day by day and
me meeow. Meow me meoow’m meow-mew meow, meoow meeeeow, mew me mew mew

year by year. But on Sunday _she does no work_, and neither fights nor
meow me meow. Mew me Meeeow meow meow me meoow, mew meoooow meeeow mew

hunts, but keeps the house, dumb and demure, like the pious little puss
meoow, mew meoow mew meoow, meow mew meeoow, meow mew meoow meeoow meow

she is; musing with half-shut eyes over the fire, or basking in the
mew me; meooow meow meow-meow meow meow mew meow, me meoooow me mew

sunshine on the garden walk.
meeeeoow me mew meeoow meow.




What an example to the wild strath-vagrant, Sabbath-breaking cats of other
Meow me meeooow me mew meow meeeow-meeooow, Meoooow-meeeooow meow me meeow

places! Early to bed and early to rise, who can doubt this pussy’s wisdom?
meeoow! Meeow me mew mew meoow me meow, mew mew meoow meow meeow’m meooow?

Who can doubt that in her rural home--
Mew mew meeow meow me mew meoow meow--




      “She’ll crown, in shades like these,
      “Mew’me meeow, me meeoow meow meeow,

  A youth of labour with an age of ease.”
  M meeow me meeoow meow me mew me meow.”













CHAPTER VII.
MEEEOOW MEW.




[_See Note G, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeeoow.m]




HONEST CATS.
MEEOOW MEOW.







Numerous instances of the honesty of well-trained cats might be given. My
Meeoooow meeeoooow me mew meeooow me meow-meeooow meow meeow me meoow. Me

own cat and travelling companion Muffie, has always taken her place on the
mew mew mew meeeeeeeow meeeeeoow Meeoow, mew meooow meoow mew meeow me mew

table at meals, and I have never had reason to repent of the indulgence.
meeow me meeow, mew M meow meeow mew meeoow me meeeow me mew meooooooow.

Even should I leave the room for half an hour, nothing could tempt her to
Meow meeoow M meoow mew meow mew meow me meow, meeooow meoow meoow mew me

lay a paw upon anything; neither will she allow any one else, not even the
mew m mew meow meeeeeow; meeeeow meow mew meoow mew mew meow, mew meow mew

waiter, to touch the viands without my permission. If I go to sleep on the
meeeow, me meoow mew meooow meeeoow me meeoooooow. Me M me me meeow me mew

sofa, she immediately mounts guard over me, and it would be very
meow, mew meeooooooow meooow meoow meow me, mew me meeow me meow

incautious in any one to come within reach of her nails. All sorts of
meeoooooow me mew mew me meow meooow meeow me mew meeow. Mew meeow me

property she guards just the same, and of my starling she is particularly
meooooow mew meeeow meow mew meow, mew me me meeoooow mew me meooooooooow

careful.
meeooow.




A gentleman of my acquaintance used to have a cat, which brought home wild
M meeeeooow me me meeoooooooow meow me meow m mew, meoow meeeeow meow meow

rabbits almost daily, but he knew his master’s tame ones, and many a romp
meeeoow meooow meoow, mew me meow mew meeoow’m meow meow, mew meow m meow

and rough-and-tumble they had together on the lawn. Tom’s master had a
mew meoow-mew-meeeow meow mew meeeeoow me mew meow. Mew’m meooow mew m

mavis. This bird did not live in a cage, but roamed about the house at its
meeow. Meow meow mew mew meow me m meow, mew meeeow meeow mew meoow me mew

own sweet will; yet pussy never made any attempt to injure it; in fact,
mew meoow meow; mew meoow meoow meow mew meeooow me meeoow me; me meow,

seemed to like it. What was most singular, the cat was in the constant
meeeow me meow me. Meow mew meow meeoooow, mew mew mew me mew meeeooow

habit of bringing in live birds,--sparrows, larks, and sometimes even a
meeow me meooooow me meow meoow,--meeoooow, meeow, mew meeeeooow meow m

mavis, which she quietly devoured beside Dickie, he standing on the floor
meoow, meeow mew meeooow meeeooow meooow Meeeow, me meeoooow me mew meoow

in front of her, looking on and whistling to himself. Birds being the
me meeow me mew, meeeeow me mew meeeeooow me meeeeow. Meoow meeow mew

natural prey of the cat, the foregoing anecdote just shows to what a high
meeooow meow me mew mew, mew meeooooow meeeeoow meow meeow me meow m meow

state of training they can be brought, and how well worthy pussy is of
meeow me meeoooow meow mew me meeooow, mew mew meow meeeow meoow me me

being trained. There is as much too in the breeding, as in the educating;
meoow meeooow. Meeow me me meow mew me mew meeeeeow, me me mew meeooooow;

for you always find that honest cats have honest kittens, and _vice
mew mew meooow meow meow meeeow meow meow meeeow meeooow, mew meoow

versâ_. Of course it is contrary to nature to expect a cat to live on
meooow. Me meeoow me me meooooow me meeoow me meeeow m mew me meow me

terms of intimacy with a bird and not sometimes make a mistake.
meeow me meooooow meow m meow mew mew meeeeeoow meow m meoooow.




An old toll-keeper, in Stirlingshire, had a favourite cat and a pet canary
Me mew meow-meeeow, me Meeeeeeeoooow, mew m meeeeeoow mew mew m mew meeeow

at the same time. Living all alone, and having plenty of spare time, he
me mew meow meow. Meeoow mew meoow, mew meeoow meeoow me meeow meow, me

had the pussy taught to allow the bird to take any liberties with her he
mew mew meeow meeeow me meeow mew meow me meow mew meeeoooow meow mew me

chose, and to perch on her back or head whenever he had a mind. Indeed,
meeow, mew me meoow me mew meow me meow meeeeeow me mew m meow. Meooow,

Dickie was seldom in his cage, when he could be with the cat. Many people
Meooow mew meeoow me mew meow, meow me meeow me meow mew mew. Meow meooow

came to see them; and to remove all scepticism the toll-man used to open
meow me mew meow; mew me meooow mew meeeeoooow mew meow-mew meow me meow

the cage-door, when the bird would immediately fly out, alight on pussy’s
mew meow-meow, meow mew meow meeow meeeeeeeoow mew mew, meeeow me meoow’m

head, and at once burst into song. One day, when working in his garden, a
meow, mew me meow meeow meow meow. Mew mew, meow meeeeow me mew meeoow, m

cat passed Mr. Tolly, apparently in a vehement hurry, with a bright yellow
mew meeoow Me. Meoow, meooooooow me m meeeeeow meoow, meow m meeoow meeeow

bird in its mouth, and hurried away towards the wood. “Losh!” said Tolly,
meow me mew meeow, mew meoooow meow meeooow mew meow. “Meow!” meow Meoow,

sticking his spade in the ground and scratching his poll, “that can never
meeeeeow mew meeow me mew meeeow mew meeeeoooow mew meow, “meow mew meoow

be _my_ cat sure_ly_!” and “Lord, have a care o’ me!” he added; “that can
me meow mew meeoooow!” mew “Meow, meow m meow m’ me!” me meeow; “meow mew

never surely be _my_ bird.” With a beating heart he rushed towards the
meoow meeeow me meow meow.” Meow m meoooow meeow me meeoow meoooow mew

house, and there got proof positive it was both his cat and his bird; for
meoow, mew meoow mew meeow meeeooow me mew meow mew mew mew mew meow; mew

the cage-door was open, and puss and Dick had both disappeared. It was a
mew meow-meow mew meow, mew meow mew Meow mew meow meeeeeeooow. Me mew m

case of elopement, or rather abduction of the most forcible nature. Poor
meow me meoooooow, me meeeow meeooooow me mew meow meeoooow meeoow. Meow

Tolly was now a very lonely man indeed; for, well aware of the heinous
Meoow mew mew m meow meooow mew meeeow; mew, meow meeow me mew meeeoow

nature of the crime she had committed, and afraid of the consequences, the
meeeow me mew meeow mew mew meeeeeoow, mew meeeow me mew meeeooooooow, mew

cat never returned.
mew meoow meeeeeow.




“In our city house,” writes a lady to me, “we have a fine grey and black
“Me mew meow meoow,” meooow m meow me me, “me meow m meow meow mew meoow

cat. This cat is the most honest of creatures, and guards our larder from
mew. Meow mew me mew meow meeoow me meeeeeoow, mew meooow mew meooow meow

the predatory inroads of the neighbour’s cats. On one occasion a stray cat
mew meeooooow meeeoow me mew meeooooow’m meow. Me mew meeoooow m meeow mew

was observed to run away with a cold stewed pigeon. Our cat rushed after
mew meeeeeow me mew meow meow m meow meeeow meeoow. Mew mew meooow meoow

the thief, and with some difficulty induced it to drop the spoil; she then
mew meoow, mew meow meow meeeeoooow meeooow me me meow mew meeow; mew meow

brought the pigeon back and laid it down at its master’s feet.”
meeeeow mew meeeow meow mew meow me meow me mew meooow’m meow.”




It is by no means an uncommon thing in Scotland, to see a large tabby on a
Me me me me meeow me meeeooow meoow me Meeoooow, me mew m meeow meoow me m

shopkeeper’s counter, kept to look after bigger thieves than rats or mice.
meeeeeeoow’m meeeoow, meow me meow meeow meeeow meeeoow meow meow me meow.

Some of these animals I have known to especially hate little boys, and
Meow me meeow meoooow M meow meeow me meeoooooow meow meeeow meow, mew

indeed to raise serious objections to their being served at all. I
meooow me meeow meoooow meeeeeooow me meoow meeow meooow me mew. M

remember one cat in particular, a very large and powerful Tom, who used
meeeooow mew mew me meeeeeeeow, m meow meeow mew meeeeeow Mew, mew meow

daily to mount guard on the counter, to protect his master’s wares. He
meoow me meeow meoow me mew meeooow, me meoooow mew meeoow’m meeow. Me

used to walk up and down, generally keeping close to the shopkeeper, and
meow me meow me mew meow, meeeeeoow meeeeow meeow me mew meooooooow, mew

his quick eye on the customer. If the latter paid the money down, he was
mew meoow mew me mew meeoooow. Me mew meeoow meow mew meeow meow, me mew

allowed to take up and pocket the articles; but if he put a finger on any
meeooow me meow me mew meeoow mew meooooow; mew me me mew m meeeow me mew

little package before paying, Tom’s big paw was down on him at once, a
meeeow meoooow meeoow meeoow, Mew’m mew mew mew meow me mew me meow, m

hint that never required repeating to the same customer. It is almost
meow meow meoow meooooow meoooooow me mew meow meooooow. Me me meeeow

needless to say that Tom himself was the pink of everything that was fair
meooooow me mew meow Mew meeooow mew mew meow me meeeeoooow meow mew meow

and honest; he was never, under any circumstances, known to steal. One
mew meooow; me mew meoow, meoow mew meeeeeeooooow, meeow me meoow. Mew

day, the merchant had gone for a few minutes into the back shop, leaving
mew, mew meeeeeow mew meow mew m mew meeeoow meow mew meow meow, meeeeow

Tom sitting, apparently asleep, beside a large piece of butter, which had
Mew meeooow, meeeeoooow meeoow, meeoow m meeow meeow me meeeow, meoow mew

just been weighed. An urchin, who happened to be passing, seeing the state
meow meow meoooow. Me meeoow, mew meeeeoow me me meeeeow, meooow mew meoow

of affairs--the coast clear and the sentry asleep--determined not to let
me meeeeow--mew meeow meeow mew mew meooow meeoow--meeeeeeoow mew me mew

slip so golden an opportunity; he had a large piece of oat-cake in his
meow me meeoow me meeeeeeooow; me mew m meoow meoow me mew-meow me mew

hand. He would butter that at least, he thought. He had just got the knife
meow. Me meeow meeoow meow me meoow, me meoooow. Me mew meow mew mew meeow

stuck into the butter, when, quick as lightning, Tom nabbed him. Deeply
meeow meow mew meeoow, meow, meoow me meeooooow, Mew meeoow mew. Meeeow

in, through the skin, went the cat’s claws, and loudly screamed the
me, meeeeow mew meow, meow mew mew’m meoow, mew meooow meeoooow mew

urchin. Tom raised his voice in concert, but held fast, and the duet
meooow. Mew meeeow mew meoow me meeeeow, mew meow meow, mew mew meow

quickly brought the shopkeeper to the spot. Tom appeared to have great
meoooow meeeoow mew meeeooooow me mew meow. Mew meooooow me meow meeow

satisfaction in seeing that little Arab’s ears boxed.
meeeeeeoooow me meeoow meow meeeow Meow’m meow meeow.




I know an instance of a cat, which brought home a live canary in its
M meow me meooooow me m mew, meoow meoooow meow m meow meooow me mew

mouth, which she presented to her mistress. The bird was put in a cage,
meoow, meoow mew meeooooow me mew meeeooow. Mew meow mew mew me m meow,

and turned out a great pet; and pussy and the bird were always great
mew meeoow mew m meeow mew; mew meeow mew mew meow meow meeeow meoow

friends; the cat one day punishing severely a stray puss that had been
meeeoow; mew mew mew mew meeeeeoow meeeeeow m meeow meow meow mew meow

guilty of the unpardonable crime of looking at the canary.
meooow me mew meeeeeeeeeow meoow me meeooow me mew meeeow.













CHAPTER VIII.
MEOOOOW MEOW.




[_See Note H, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeeeow.m]




THE PLOUGHMAN’S “MYSIE.”
MEW MEEEOOOOW’M “MEOOW.”







Ten miles along dusty roads in a hilly country, and on a hot summer’s day,
Mew meoow meoow meeow meeow me m meeow meeooow, mew me m mew meeeow’m mew,

was rather fatiguing, and I was glad to find the ploughman’s cottage, or
mew meeoow meeeeeoow, mew M mew meow me meow mew meeooooow’m meeeeow, me

rather hut, at last. It was placed in a picturesque little nook, at the
meeoow mew, me meow. Me mew meooow me m meeeeeeooow meeoow meow, me mew

foot of the Ochil mountains, and consisted simply of a “butt and a ben,”
meow me mew Meeow meeeeeoow, mew meeeeeoow meeeow me m “meow mew m mew,”

with a potatoe patch and kail-yard in front. The mistress was at home; her
meow m meeeoow meoow mew meow-meow me meoow. Mew meeoooow mew me meow; mew

goodman, she said, was busy sowing turnips. But she kindly asked me in,
meeeeow, mew meow, mew meow meeeow meeeoow. Mew mew meooow meeow me me,

and showed me into the best room, with its mahogany chest of drawers,
mew meeoow me meow mew meow meow, meow mew meooooow meeow me meeooow,

old-fashioned eight-day clock, and bed with snowy counterpane in the
mew-meeeoooow meeow-mew meeow, mew mew meow meoow meeeeooooow me mew

corner. While I rested, the good woman produced her kebbuck of last year’s
meeoow. Meoow M meeoow, mew meow meeow meeeooow mew meoooow me meow meow’m

cheese, a basin of creamy milk, and some delicious oat-cakes,--a banquet
meeoow, m meoow me meooow meow, mew meow meeeeeeow mew-meeow,--m meoooow

for a hungry king,--and bade me eat, apologising that she had no whisky in
mew m meooow meow,--mew meow me mew, meeooooooow meow mew mew me meooow me

the house.
mew meoow.




“And so,” she said, “you’ve come a’ this lang road too see our Mysie.
“Mew me,” mew meow, “mew’me meow m’ meow meow meow mew mew mew Meeow.

Well,” pointing towards the bed, “yonder she is, sir.”
Meow,” meeeeoow meeeeow mew mew, “meooow mew me, mew.”




I was certainly a little disappointed. Mysie was a tortoise-shell and
M mew meeeeooow m meeeow meeoooooooow. Meoow mew m meeeooow-meeow mew

white, pretty well marked, but small and with an expression, as I thought,
meeow, meeeow meow meeoow, mew meeow mew meow me meeeeoooow, me M meeooow,

of bad temper about her little face, which just then seemed the reverse of
me mew meeeow meeow mew meeoow meow, meoow meow meow meooow mew meeeeow me

pleasant; but this wore off when I patted and caressed her.
meeeeoow; mew meow meow mew meow M meeoow mew meeeeeow mew.




“Is there anything remarkable about her?” I asked.
“Me meoow meeeeoow meeeeeeoow meeow mew?” M meoow.




“Weel, sir,” said her mistress, “she can catch mice like winking.”
“Meow, mew,” meow mew meooooow, “mew mew meoow meow meow meeooow.”




“Cats generally do,” said I laughing; “anything else?”
“Meow meeeoooow me,” meow M meeeeoow; “meeoooow meow?”




“She’s a queer cratur. She has never slept a single night in the house
“Mew’m m meoow meeoow. Mew mew meoow meeow m meeoow meoow me mew meoow

since her e’en were opened, and----But you’re no eating, sir.”
meeow mew m’me meow meeoow, mew----Mew mew’me me meeeow, mew.”




I praised the cakes and kebbuck, and remained silent.
M meeooow mew meoow mew meoooow, mew meeeeeow meeeow.




“The fact is, sir,” she said at last, “_she saved my husband’s life_ last
“Mew meow me, mew,” mew meow me meow, “meow meeow me meoooow’m meeow meow

fa’ o’ the year. For George is a proud proud man, and would never accept
me’ m’ mew meow. Mew Meeeow me m meeow meoow mew, mew meeow meeow meeoow

meal or maut that he hadna worked or paid for.[1] But he had been lang
meow me meow meow me meoow meeoow me meow mew.[m] Mew me mew meow meow

lang ill; and ae day when I followed the doctor to the door, he told me
meow mew; mew me mew meow M meeeeoow mew meeeow me mew meow, me meow me

that my poor man must die if he didna have his strength kept up. ‘Flesh
meow me meow mew meow mew me me meoow meow mew meeeeeow meow me. ‘Meoow

and wine,’ said the doctor, ‘flesh and wine and plenty of both.’ Ah!
mew meow,’ meow mew meeeow, ‘meeow mew meow mew meooow me meow.’ Me!

little he kenned. So I put awa (pledged) my marriage gown and ring to get
meeoow me meooow. Me M mew mew (meeooow) me meeeeeow meow mew meow me mew

him wine; but we had naething in the house but milk and meal. Surely, sir,
mew meow; mew me mew meeeeeow me mew meoow mew meow mew meow. Meeoow, mew,

it was the Lord Himself that put it into that cat’s head; for, that same
me mew mew Meow Meeooow meow mew me meow meow mew’m meow; mew, meow meow

night, she brought in a fine young rabbit, and laid it on the verra
meeow, mew meeeoow me m meow meeow meooow, mew meow me me mew meeow

bed;”--the good woman was weeping now--“and the next night the same, and
mew;”--mew meow meeow mew meeooow mew--“mew mew meow meeow mew meow, mew

every night the same, for a month, whiles a rabbit and whiles a bird, till
meeow meeow mew meow, mew m meoow, meooow m meeeow mew meooow m meow, meow

George was up and going to his work as usual. But she _never brought
Meeoow mew me mew meoow me mew meow me meeow. Mew mew meeoow meeeeow

onything hame after that_. She’s, maybe, no bonnie, sir; but, God bless
meeeeoow meow meeow meeow. Mew’m, meeow, me meeoow, mew; mew, Mew meoow

her, she is unco good and wiser than many a human.”
mew, mew me meow meow mew meoow meow meow m meeow.”




By this time I could perceive no expression on Mysie’s face but that of
Me meow meow M meoow meeeooow me meeeeeeeow me Meoow’m meow mew meow me

unalterable fidelity and unchangeable love.
meeeeeeeeow meooooow mew meeeeeeeeoow meow.




“You wouldn’t like to part with her, would you?”
“Mew meeeow’m meow me meow meow mew, meoow mew?”




“Part wi’ Mysie, sir? No for a’ the warld’s wealth.”
“Meow me’ Meeow, mew? Me mew m’ mew meoow’m meeeow.”




So I bade them good-bye, not now regretting my long walk to the Ochil
Me M meow meow meow-mew, mew mew meeeeeeeow me meow meow me mew Meoow

mountains, and the ploughman’s faithful Mysie.
meeooooow, mew mew meeeeeoow’m meeeooow Meoow.













CHAPTER IX.
MEEOOOW ME.




[_See Note I, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeeeow.m]




TENACITY OF LIFE IN CATS.
MEOOOOOW ME MEOW ME MEOW.







“As many lives as a cat,” and “a cat has nine lives,” are sayings which we
“Me meow meeow me m mew,” mew “m mew mew meow meeow,” mew meoooow meeow me

hear almost every day. The truth of the latter we must all acknowledge;
meow meeoow meeow mew. Mew meeow me mew meeoow me meow mew meeeeooooow;

not indeed as regards the imputed plurality of lives in the cat, but, as
mew meeoow me meeooow mew meeooow meeooooow me meeow me mew mew, mew, me

illustrative of the extreme tenacity of the one life she possesses. As an
meeoooooooow me mew meeeoow meeeeoow me mew mew meow mew meeeoooow. Me me

Irishman would say, pussy may be many times “kill’t,” but only once
Meeeeoow meoow mew, meoow mew me meow meoow “meow’m,” mew meow meow

“kill’t entirely;” or, as a Zanzibar nigger would have it, she may be
“meow’m meeeeeow;” me, me m Meooooow meeeow meoow meow me, mew mew me

often-times dead, but only once “gone dead.”
meeow-meeow meow, mew meow meow “meow meow.”




Joy was a farmer’s cat, a beautifully-marked lady-tabby. She was extremely
Mew mew m meeoow’m mew, m meeooooooow-meeoow meow-meeow. Mew mew meeeoooow

fond of horses, used to jump on their backs, and often sleep there at
meow me meeeow, meow me meow me meoow meoow, mew meeow meeow meeow me

night. She was consequently nearly always in the stable. One day, however,
meeow. Mew mew meooooooooow meeoow meeeow me mew meeeow. Mew mew, meeooow,

one of her pets kicked her,--accidentally it is to be hoped, but so
mew me mew meow meeoow mew,--meeeeeeeooow me me me me meoow, mew me

severely that one of the men found her, lying cold and stiff beside the
meeoooow meow mew me mew mew meoow mew, meoow meow mew meoow meeoow mew

wall. He lifted her up and laid her on the dunghill, until he should find
meow. Me meeeow mew me mew meow mew me mew meeeooow, meeow me meeoow meow

time to give her a decent burial. Here the poor animal lay all day in the
meow me meow mew m meeeow meeeow. Meow mew meow meeeow mew mew mew me mew

sun, and here she was found at milking-time, by a kind-hearted servant
mew, mew meow mew mew meoow me meoooow-meow, me m meow-meoooow meoooow

girl. Thinking she perceived some tokens of life about it, and remembering
meow. Meeoooow mew meoooooow meow meeeow me meow meeow me, mew meeeeeoooow

the proverb, she took the pussy into the kitchen, and rolling it carefully
mew meeeeow, mew meow mew meoow meow mew meeeoow, mew meeeoow me meeeeooow

in a flannel petticoat, placed it in front of the fire. When she came in
me m meeooow meeeeeoow, meooow me me meeow me mew meow. Meow mew meow me

from milking, she was rejoiced to find that pussy was so much better, as
meow meeooow, mew mew meeeeeow me meow meow meoow mew me meow meooow, me

to be able to lift her head and taste a little warm milk. With three days’
me me meow me meow mew meow mew meoow m meeoow meow meow. Meow meoow meow’

careful nursing the cat recovered. She lived to a goodly old age, but
meeeoow meeeeow mew mew meeeoooow. Mew meoow me m meooow mew mew, mew

abjured the turf,--she never backed a favourite again.
meoooow mew meow,--mew meeow meeoow m meeooooow meoow.




Another cat, found in a trap, was cruelly beaten about the head by a
Meeeoow mew, meeow me m meow, mew meeooow meeoow meoow mew meow me m

brutal keeper, until the blood gushed from both ears. He finally cut off
meooow meooow, meeow mew meoow meeoow meow meow meow. Me meeooow mew mew

the poor thing’s tail as a trophy of his bravery, and left her on the
mew meow meeow’m meow me m meooow me mew meoooow, mew meow mew me mew

ground for dead. Her mistress, hearing of what had happened, was soon on
meeoow mew meow. Mew meeeooow, meoooow me meow mew meeeeeow, mew meow me

the spot, and carried home what she thought was the dead body of her cat.
mew meow, mew meeeeow meow meow mew meeeeow mew mew meow meow me mew mew.

She tried every means of resuscitation, nevertheless, and in three weeks
Mew meoow meoow meoow me meeeeeeeeeeow, meeeeeeeooow, mew me meoow meoow

had the satisfaction of seeing pussy as well as ever, and as full of fun;
mew mew meeoooooooow me meooow meoow me meow me meow, mew me meow me mew;

only it was now a Manx cat, an artificial one. Pussy must often have seen
meow me mew mew m Meow mew, me meooooooow mew. Meoow meow meoow meow meow

her own tail hanging on the game-keeper’s wall, in company with a dead
mew mew meow meoooow me mew meow-meooow’m meow, me meeeeow meow m meow

hawk, an owl, and a few hoody-crows. The man had the tail frizzed up to
meow, me mew, mew m mew meeow-meoow. Mew mew mew mew meow meeeeow me me

make it look big; and pointing it out to many a cockney sportsman, used to
meow me meow mew; mew meeeooow me mew me meow m meeeeow meoooooow, meow me

relate a story of a dreadful encounter he had with a “real wild cat, sir,”
meooow m meeow me m meeeeoow meeeoooow me mew meow m “meow meow mew, mew,”

which he at last slew; “and yonder,” he would always add, “hangs the
meeow me me meow meow; “mew meooow,” me meoow meooow mew, “meeow mew

buffer’s tail.”
meooow’m meow.”




A man going one morning into his dovecot, which in this case was an attic
M mew meeow mew meeeoow meow mew meoooow, meeow me meow meow mew me meeow

at the top of a house eight-storeys high, found his own cat killing the
me mew mew me m meoow meeow-meoooow meow, meeow mew mew mew meoooow mew

pigeons right and left. Greatly enraged, he kicked the animal through the
meoooow meeow mew meow. Meeeoow meoooow, me meeoow mew meeoow meoooow mew

open window. On going down shortly after, rather ashamed and sorry for
meow meeoow. Me meeow meow meeooow meeow, meeoow meeooow mew meeow mew

what he had done, he was greatly surprised to see pussy gather herself up,
meow me mew meow, me mew meeeoow meeeeeeow me mew meeow meeoow meoooow me,

and slink in at the back door. Apparently she was none the worse of her
mew meoow me me mew meow meow. Meooooooow mew mew meow mew meoow me mew

rather hurried descent from a height of over fifty feet.
meeeow meeooow meeeoow meow m meeoow me meow meoow meow.




In the case of the cat which the keeper “kill’d,” there was no doubt
Me mew meow me mew mew meeow mew meeoow “meow’m,” meoow mew me meoow

fracture of the skull. In the following case, the apparent death was no
meeeooow me mew meeow. Me mew meeeeooow meow, mew meeoooow meoow mew me

doubt due to severe concussion of the brain, or stunning.
meeow mew me meooow meeeooooow me mew meeow, me meeeooow.




A boy in going to school one day, saw a large cat sitting not far from its
M mew me meoow me meooow mew mew, mew m meeow mew meeooow mew mew meow mew

master’s door. Without meaning to hurt the pussy, but with that
meeeow’m meow. Meeooow meoooow me meow mew meoow, mew meow meow

recklessness of consequences which characterizes most school-boys, he
meeeeeeeooow me meeeeeeeooow meoow meeeeeeeeeoow meow meeeow-meow, me

picked up a stone to have “just one shy at her.” He struck her on the
meeeow me m meeow me meow “meow mew mew me mew.” Me meeeow mew me mew

head, and pussy dropped to all appearance as dead as the stone itself.
meow, mew meeow meoooow me mew meeeeeooow me meow me mew meoow meeoow.

Afraid of the consequences of detection, he picked the cat up and threw it
Meeoow me mew meeoooooooow me meeooooow, me meeeow mew mew me mew meoow me

in a cornfield not far off. As murderers are said to haunt the scene of
me m meeeeooow mew mew mew. Me meeeeeoow mew meow me meeow mew meeow me

their guilt, so the boy every morning, for the three following days, found
meeow meeow, me mew mew meoow meeooow, mew mew meeow meeooooow meow, meoow

himself irresistibly drawn towards the field of corn, and every morning
meeeoow meeeeeeeeeow meoow meeooow mew meoow me meow, mew meoow meeeeow

there lay his victim stark and still. On the fourth morning, however, she
meeow mew mew meeoow meeow mew meeow. Me mew meeoow meeeoow, meoooow, mew

was gone; and in returning from school the same evening, the boy’s
mew meow; mew me meeeeeoow meow meeeow mew meow meeeeow, mew mew’m

astonishment was very great indeed, on seeing the identical cat, washing
meeeeeooooow mew meow meoow meeeow, me meooow mew meeeeeeow mew, meeeeow

its face at its master’s door, as if nothing had ever occurred to annoy
mew meow me mew meeoow’m meow, me me meeooow mew meow meeeeeow me meeow

it.
me.




Kittens, too, possess the same tenacity of life which is so remarkable in
Meeeeow, mew, meoooow mew meow meeeooow me meow meoow me me meeeeeeoow me

the full-grown cat.
mew meow-meoow mew.




A friend of mine, for example, had a cat which gave birth to a litter of
M meeoow me meow, mew meeeoow, mew m mew meoow meow meeow me m meeoow me

five kittens, four of which were ordered to be drowned. The execution of
meow meeeoow, meow me meeow meow meeeoow me me meeeeow. Mew meeeoooow me

the sentence was duly carried out, the same evening in a pail of water.
mew meeoooow mew meow meeooow mew, mew meow meoooow me m meow me meoow.

When full time had been given to the kits to give their final kick, the
Meow meow meow mew meow meoow me mew meow me meow meoow meeow meow, mew

pail was emptied on a heap of manure. Next morning, however, all the young
meow mew meeeoow me m meow me meooow. Meow meeeoow, meeooow, mew mew meeow

pussies were found alive and well in their happy mother’s arms. She was
meeeeow meow meeow meeow mew meow me meeow meeow meeeow’m meow. Mew mew

allowed to rear them. I do not know what means pussy adopted to revivify
meeeeow me meow meow. M me mew meow meow meoow meoow meeeeow me meeeeoow

her apparently drowned offspring, or I should at once send the recipe to
mew meeeeeooow meeeeow meeeoooow, me M meooow me meow meow mew meeoow me

the Royal Humane Society, and patiently wait for a silver medallion by
mew Meeow Meeoow Meeeoow, mew meoooooow meow mew m meeeow meeeeooow me

return of post.
meeeow me meow.




I remember, when a boy, seeing a horrid old woman dig a hole in the earth
M meeeooow, meow m mew, meooow m meooow mew meoow mew m meow me mew meeow

and deliberately bury three kittens alive. The ground heaved above them,
mew meeeeoooooow meow meoow meeooow meeow. Mew meeoow meooow meoow meow,

and she clapped the earth with the spade till all motion ceased. The same
mew mew meeeoow mew meeow meow mew meeow meow mew meeoow meeeow. Mew meow

aged wretch used to toast snails in a little flannel bag before the fire,
meow meeoow meow me meoow meeeow me m meeeow meeeeow mew meeeow mew meow,

in order to extract the oil for sprains, and I have often shuddered to
me meoow me meeooow mew mew mew meoooow, mew M meow meeow meeeoooow me

hear the snails squeak; but this of course has nothing to do with the
meow mew meeoow meooow; mew meow me meeoow mew meeooow me me meow mew

subject of cats. I went and told my little sister of the cruel interment;
meeeeow me meow. M meow mew meow me meeeow meeoow me mew meoow meeeoooow;

and, watching our chance--we really thought the old woman would bury us if
mew, meeeeeow mew meeoow--me meooow meeooow mew mew meoow meeow meow me me

she caught us--we dug up the kittens fully an hour after, and were
mew meeeow me--me mew me mew meeeoow meeow me meow meoow, mew meow

successful in nursing two of them back to life. We reared them on the
meeoooooow me meoooow mew me meow meow me meow. Me meeoow meow me mew

spoon.
meeow.




The following anecdote might, perhaps, have been more properly related, in
Mew meeooooow meeeeoow meeow, meoooow, meow meow meow meeeooow meeeoow, me

the chapter on cruelty to cats; however, as illustrative of the subject in
mew meoooow me meeooow me meow; meeeoow, me meooooooooow me mew meeooow me

point, we give it here. At a certain farm-town, about ten years ago, one
meeow, me meow me meow. Me m meeooow meow-meow, meeow mew meeow mew, mew

of the men-servants conceived a great antipathy to his master’s cat. The
me mew mew-meeeeoow meoooooow m meoow meoooooow me mew meeeow’m mew. Mew

cat had been guilty of some little delinquency in the bothy, or
mew mew meow meeoow me meow meeoow meeooooooow me mew meeow, me

farm-servants’ hall, for which the man had punished pussy. The farmer had
meow-meeoooow’ meow, mew meeow mew mew mew meeeooow meeow. Mew meeeow mew

taken his cat’s part, and scolded the man, and hence the _casus belli_.
meeow mew mew’m meow, mew meeeeow mew mew, mew meoow mew meeeow meeoow.

The man swore vengeance on poor pussy, whenever an opportunity should
Mew mew meeow meeeoooow me meow meeow, meooooow me meeooooooow meooow

occur. Nor had he long to wait; a fast-day came round, and nearly every
meoow. Mew mew me meow me meow; m meow-mew meow meoow, mew meooow meeow

one had gone to church. The brutal fellow got the cat in the stable, and
mew mew meow me meeoow. Mew meeeow meooow mew mew mew me mew meeoow, mew

commenced putting her to death with a horsewhip. This he had well-nigh
meeooooow meeeoow mew me meoow meow m meeooooow. Meow me mew meow-meow

accomplished, when puss by some means effected her escape. She was unable,
meeeeeeoooow, meow meow me meow meoow meeeeeow mew meooow. Mew mew meeeow,

however, to make much use of her legs, so he whipped her round and round
meeooow, me meow meow mew me mew meow, me me meeeeow mew meeow mew meoow

the farm-steading, until the poor creature took refuge in a hole, which
mew meow-meeeeeow, meeow mew meow meooooow meow meeoow me m meow, meeow

happened to be in the barn wall. This hole was a _cul-de-sac_, having no
meeeeoow me me me mew meow meow. Meow meow mew m meow-me-meow, meooow me

opening on the inside of the wall. It now occurred to this fiendish lout,
meeooow me mew meeeow me mew meow. Me mew meeeeeow me meow meooooow meow,

that he might easily accomplish pussy’s death and burial at the same time,
meow me meeow meeeow meeeeoooow meoow’m meeow mew meeoow me mew meow meow,

and he forthwith proceeded to build up the hole with stone and lime. The
mew me meoooooow meeeeeoow me meeow me mew meow meow meoow mew meow. Mew

cat was missed, and a whole week elapsed without any tidings of her; and
mew mew meeoow, mew m meoow meow meeooow meoooow mew meeeeow me mew; mew

although suspicion fell upon the right party, there was no proof. A whole
meeeeoow meeeeeeow meow meow mew meoow meoow, meeow mew me meeow. M meeow

week elapsed, when one evening the farmer was standing near the barn
meow meeooow, meow mew meeooow mew meeoow mew meeeooow meow mew meow

wondering if ever he would see his little friend again. Suddenly his eye
meeeeeeow me meow me meeow mew mew meeeow meeeow meoow. Meooooow mew mew

fell upon the servant’s handiwork. That wall, he thought, was never
meow meow mew meoooow’m meoooooow. Meow meow, me meeeeow, mew meeow

repaired by my orders; my poor cat is buried there. To fetch a pick and
meeeeeow me me meooow; me meow mew me meeeow meeow. Me meeow m meow mew

tear out the stones did not take many seconds, and then from her very
meow mew mew meeoow mew mew meow meow meeeoow, mew meow meow mew meow

grave he pulled the pussy. Strange to say, she was alive; and though
meoow me meeeow mew meoow. Meeeeow me mew, mew mew meoow; mew meeoow

dreadfully emaciated, by careful nursing she got all right again in a few
meeeeeeeow meeeeeeow, me meoooow meoooow mew mew mew meeow meoow me m mew

weeks. She had been eight days immured in a cramped position. Only fancy
meeow. Mew mew meow meeow meow meeeoow me m meeooow meeeeeow. Meow meeow

her sufferings.
mew meooooooow.




Some schoolboys, not long since, stoned a poor cat till she fell down
Meow meeeooooow, mew meow meoow, meeeow m meow mew meow mew meow meow

apparently dead. Afraid of what they had done, they determined to kill it
meeoooooow meow. Meeeow me meow meow mew meow, meow meeeeoooow me meow me

outright, and bury it in an adjoining field. This they endeavoured to do
meeeeeow, mew meow me me me meeeeeoow meeow. Meow meow meeeoooooow me me

by dashing the cat’s head against a stone fence; not succeeding, however,
me meoooow mew mew’m meow meoooow m meeow meeow; mew meeeeeeoow, meoooow,

and being in a hurry to get off, to escape detection a grave was hurriedly
mew meoow me m meeow me mew mew, me meooow meeeeeoow m meoow mew meeeeeeow

dug, and pussy interred. The ground was still moving over her when the
mew, mew meeow meeeooow. Mew meeeow mew meoow meeeow meow mew meow mew

young wretches left. Bad news travels apace; and the owner of poor puss
meeow meeeooow meow. Mew meow meeooow meeow; mew mew meeow me meow meow

hearing of her favourite’s death and burial, hastened to the grave and dug
meeeoow me mew meeooooow’m meeow mew meeoow, meeoooow me mew meoow mew mew

her up. There was still life in her, and by careful treatment she made a
mew me. Meoow mew meoow meow me mew, mew me meeeeow meeeeeoow mew meow m

good recovery, and was seen about her old haunts four or five days after.
meow meeeeeow, mew mew meow meoow mew mew meeeow meow me meow meow meeow.




The following case of suspended animation may seem almost incredible; it
Mew meeeeeeow meow me meeeeeoow meeeeeeow mew meow meeoow meeeooooow; me

is authentic nevertheless, and not unaccountable either on scientific
me meeeoooow meeeeeooooow, mew mew meeeeeeeeeeow meeeow me meeeooooow

grounds.
meeooow.




The owner of a black and white cat determined, for private reasons, to get
Mew meeow me m meoow mew meeow mew meeeeeooow, mew meeooow meeeeow, me mew

rid of her. He had not the heart to hang her, or he was not sufficiently
mew me mew. Me mew mew mew meeow me meow mew, me me mew mew meeeeeeeeoow

enamoured of Calcraft’s profession to do so; there was no poison in the
meeooooow me Meooooow’m meeeeeeeow me me me; meoow mew me meooow me mew

house; and as he lived away up in the centre of a hilly country, there was
meoow; mew me me meoow meow me me mew meooow me m meoow meeeeow, meoow mew

no water, without walking a long distance, sufficiently deep to drown her.
me meoow, meeeoow meeeoow m meow meeeeoow, meeoooooooow meow me meoow mew.

Thinking, however, that suffocation, in whatever way produced, was as easy
Meeoooow, meeooow, meow meeeeeoooow, me meeeeeow mew meooooow, mew me meow

a death as any, he got a small bag, in which he placed the cat, tying the
m meoow me mew, me mew m meoow mew, me meeow me meeoow mew mew, meeow mew

mouth of the sack. He then dug a hole in the garden and lowered her down.
meoow me mew meow. Me meow mew m meow me mew meeeow mew meeeoow mew meow.




“I’ll no hurt ye, poor puss,” he said, as he pressed the earth firmly but
“M’me me meow me, meow meow,” me meow, me me meoooow mew meeow meooow mew

gently over her; “and ye’ll no be lang o’ deeing there--God! she canna
meooow meow mew; “mew me’me me me meow m’ meeoow meeow--Mew! mew meoow

live wantin’ breath.” This grave was merely meant for a temporary
meow meeeow’ meooow.” Meow meoow mew meeeow meoow mew m meeooooow

resting-place; so next morning the man went to open it, with the intention
meeooow-meeow; me meow meeooow mew mew meow me meow me, meow mew meeeeeeow

of placing her remains at the foot of a tree. To his surprise pussy jumped
me meeooow mew meoooow me mew meow me m meow. Me mew meeeeoow meeow meooow

out of the bag “alive and well;” well enough, at any rate, to make her
mew me mew mew “meoow mew meow;” meow meeeow, me mew meow, me meow mew

feet her friends. That cat thought she had lived long enough, in that part
meow mew meeooow. Meow mew meeeeow mew mew meeow meow meeeow, me meow meow

of the country.
me mew meeooow.




The same black Tom mentioned in a former chapter, as guarding his master’s
Mew meow meeow Mew meeeeeeow me m meooow meeooow, me meeoooow mew meeoow’m

wares, and keeping his eye on questionable customers, was certainly very
meeow, mew meeeoow mew mew me meeeeeeeeeow meeooooow, mew meoooooow meow

exemplary in his honesty; but as every pussy has one little failing so had
meeeeooow me mew meeooow; mew me meoow meeow mew mew meeeow meeeoow me mew

big Tom. An egg was Tom’s stumbling-block. He could have got dozens of
mew Mew. Me mew mew Mew’m meeeeeoow-meeow. Me meoow meow mew meeeow me

them on his master’s counter, but that would have been theft; besides, he
meow me mew meeoow’m meeooow, mew meow meoow meow meow meoow; meeeeow, me

preferred his eggs new-laid, and not imported. So, with the intention of
meeooooow mew meow mew-meow, mew mew meooooow. Me, meow mew meeeoooow me

ministering to his cravings, Tom used to pay occasional visits to the
meeooooooow me mew meeeooow, Mew meow me mew meeeeeeoow meeeow me mew

henneries of the neighbours. He also had a habit of making a pilgrimage
meeeeooow me mew meeeeeooow. Me meow mew m meeow me meooow m meeoooooow

to an adjoining village, and calling at the house of a man called Archie,
me me meeooooow meoooow, mew meeeeow me mew meoow me m mew meooow Meooow,

a weaver and customer of his master’s. Archie was very fond of Tom, and
m meeeow mew meeeooow me mew meeeow’m. Meeeow mew meow meow me Mew, mew

always made him welcome. Not so, however, a man called Dan, who lived in
meeeow meow mew meeeoow. Mew me, meeeoow, m mew meooow Mew, mew meoow me

the next house. For this man openly accused Tom of stealing his eggs; and
mew meow meeow. Mew meow mew meeoow meeooow Mew me meooooow mew meow; mew

there was no doubt some truth in it, for Dan’s wife swore she had seen Tom
meeow mew me meeow meow meeow me me, mew Mew’m meow meeow mew mew meow Mew

more than once, coming out through the hen-hole in the barn door, with his
meow meow meow, meooow mew meeeoow mew mew-meow me mew meow meow, meow mew

beard still yellow with the yolk of a stolen egg. Dan resolved to be
meeow meoow meooow meow mew meow me m meooow mew. Mew meeeooow me me

revenged, and at once set about encompassing the poor pussy’s death. He so
meeeeeow, mew me meow mew meoow meeeeeeeeoow mew meow meeow’m meoow. Me me

arranged a bag beneath the hen-hole, that on Tom’s going through he would
meooooow m mew meeeoow mew mew-meow, meow me Mew’m meeow meeooow me meoow

be certain to pop into it, and so make himself prisoner. The first time
me meoooow me mew meow me, mew me meow meeeeow meeeooow. Mew meeow meow

the bag was set Dan only captured his own cock, the next time a stray hen
mew mew mew mew Mew meow meeeeeow mew mew meow, mew meow meow m meoow mew

of a neighbour; but this only made him the more determined; and eventually
me m meeeoooow; mew meow meow meow mew mew meow meeeeoooow; mew meeeeoooow

he was successful. Tom was a prisoner, and condemned to instant execution
me mew meeeeeooow. Mew mew m meooooow, mew meeeoooow me meoooow meeeoooow

by Dan and his wife Bell. Bell indeed was even more bitter against the cat
me Mew mew mew meow Meow. Meow meooow mew meow meow meeeow meeeeow mew mew

than her husband. Just then pussy’s friend the weaver happened to come
meow mew meoooow. Meow meow meeow’m meeeow mew meeoow meeoooow me meow

upon the scene, and hearing what had occurred, and what was about to
meow mew meoow, mew meeooow meow mew meeeooow, mew meow mew meoow me

follow, he pleaded long and hard for his little friend’s life, and even
meeeow, me meeeoow meow mew meow mew mew meeoow meeeow’m meow, mew meow

threatened the terrors of the law; but Dan was inexorable. Die Tom should,
meeeooooow mew meeeeow me mew mew; mew Mew mew meeeooooow. Mew Mew meooow,

he said, if he himself should hang for it. He “kill’d” the cat by dashing
me meow, me me meeeeow meeoow meow mew me. Me “meow’m” mew mew me meeeoow

the sack, many times against the gable-wall of his own house. “He’s quiet
mew meow, meow meeow meoooow mew meeow-meow me mew mew meeow. “Me’m meoow

enough now,” said Dan.
meeeow mew,” meow Mew.




“Make siccar,” said Bell; and she commenced hitting Tom with the spade she
“Meow meeoow,” meow Meow; mew mew meeeoooow meoooow Mew meow mew meoow mew

had brought to dig his grave.
mew meeooow me mew mew meoow.




“You ugly black brute,” she cried; “you’ll steal nae mair eggs in this
“Mew meow meeow meoow,” mew meoow; “mew’me meeow mew meow meow me meow

warld.”
meoow.”




Dan then threw the sack over his shoulders, and accompanied by his wife as
Mew meow meoow mew meow meow mew meoooooow, mew meeeeeeeoow me mew meow me

grave-digger, and Archie the weaver as chief mourner, they proceeded to
meoow-meeeow, mew Meeoow mew meeeow me meeow meeeeow, meow meoooooow me

the garden to bury the unfortunate Tom. A grave was dug at the foot of a
mew meeeow me meow mew meeeeeoooow Mew. M meoow mew mew me mew meow me m

gooseberry bush, and Dan opening the mouth of the sack, proceeded to
meeeeeeoow meow, mew Mew meeooow mew meeow me mew meow, meeeeeoow me

shake out the mangled remains of the cat. You may judge of the chagrin and
meeow mew mew meeooow meeeeow me mew mew. Mew mew meoow me mew meeooow mew

disgust of Dan and his cruel Bell, when those same mangled remains no
meeeeow me Mew mew mew meoow Meow, meow meoow meow meeeeow meeeoow me

sooner touched the ground, than they got together again somehow, and
meooow meeeoow mew meooow, meow meow mew meooooow meeow meeeeow, mew

springing out of the grave, made their way like greased lightning out of
meeeeeeow mew me mew meeow, meow meeow mew meow meeooow meoooooow mew me

the garden and off. The tables were turned. Dan was chief mourner now.
mew meeoow mew mew. Mew meeeow meow meeoow. Mew mew meoow meeeoow mew.




“Curse the cat!” he roared.
“Meeow mew mew!” me meeeow.




Dan’s wife was equal to the occasion.
Mew’m meow mew meoow me mew meeeeeow.




“You’re a fool, gudeman,” she said,--and indeed, he did not look much
“Mew’me m meow, meeeeow,” mew meow,--mew meooow, me mew mew meow meow

unlike one,--“the cat’s the deevil, and you can fill in the grave
meooow mew,--“mew mew’m mew meooow, mew mew mew meow me mew meoow

yersel’.”
meeoow’.”













CHAPTER X.
MEEOOOW M.




[_See Note J, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m]




NOMADISM IN CATS.
MEOOOOOW ME MEOW.







There are few, if any cats, that can withstand the temptation to
Meeow mew mew, me mew meow, meow mew meeeeeoow mew meeeeoooow me

occasionally roam abroad, and lead for a while the life of a gipsy puss.
meeeeeeeooow meow meooow, mew meow mew m meoow mew meow me m meoow meow.

Perhaps pussy thinks she has as much right to her holiday, as master or
Meeeeow meeow meeeow mew mew me meow meeow me mew meeooow, me meeoow me

mistress. Home life must at times grow monotonous and irksome, and a
meooooow. Meow meow meow me meeow meow meeoooooow mew meoooow, mew m

change no doubt highly desirable. Besides, cats are of a more social
meeeow me meoow meeeow meeeeeeow. Meeeoow, meow mew me m meow meeoow

disposition among their species than dogs are. They like to meet and
meeeoooooow meeow meoow meeeeow meow meow mew. Meow meow me meow mew

exchange ideas with their fellow cats. Night is the season almost
meeeeeow meoow meow meoow meooow meow. Meoow me mew meooow meeoow

invariably chosen for these social _réunions_. There is then more
meeeeeooow meeoow mew meoow meooow meeeooooow. Meoow me meow meow

seclusion, and less likelihood of their being disturbed. They know that
meeeeeoow, mew meow meeeeeeeow me meeow meeow meeeoooow. Meow meow meow

dogs stick closely at home after dark, and that little boys are sound
meow meoow meeeoow me meow meoow meow, mew meow meeeow meow mew meeow

asleep. By night, moreover, the voices of the gentlemen who give addresses
meeeow. Me meoow, meooooow, mew meeoow me mew meeeoooow mew meow meeeeeoow

are more easily heard. Everything else being so still, each inflection and
mew meow meooow meoow. Meooooooow meow meeow me meoow, meow meeeeeooow mew

intonation of voice is beautifully distinct. It matters not that the
meeeeoooow me meeow me meeooooooow meeeooow. Me meeeoow mew meow mew

nervous lady in No. 5. is kept awake till the close of the meeting, and
meeeoow meow me Me. m. me meow meeow meow mew meeow me mew meeeoow, mew

can’t sleep a wink after that; that No. 3. can’t get her baby to sleep; or
mew’m meoow m meow meoow meow; meow Me. m. mew’m mew mew meow me meoow; me

that No. 2. is writing a letter to the _Times_, and can’t follow out any
meow Me. m. me meeooow m meeeow me mew mEeeoow, mew mew’m meooow mew mew

single idea;--the concert in the back-garden of No. 4. goes on all the
meooow meow;--mew meeeoow me mew meow-meooow me Me. m. meow me mew mew

same. How sweetly that old tabby cat imitates the harmonies of a bass
meow. Mew meeeeow meow mew meoow mew meeeeoow mew meeeeeeow me m meow

violin! How grandly that black Tom’s voice rises and swells, floats and
meeeow! Mew meoooow meow meeow Mew’m meeow meeow mew meooow, meooow mew

soars, on the night breeze! How beautifully those five cats in the corner,
meoow, me mew meeow meeeow! Mew meeeeeeooow meeow meow meow me mew meeeow,

are imitating the dulcet strains of the great highland bag-pipe! Three of
mew meeeeeoow mew meooow meeeeow me mew meeow meeeeoow mew-meow! Meoow me

them are told of as drones, the other two do the lilting, and the effect
meow mew meow me me meeeow, mew meoow mew me mew meeooow, mew mew meooow

is quite startling. So at least thinks that old bachelor wretch in the
me meeow meeeeeeow. Me me meoow meeoow meow mew meeoooow meooow me mew

two-pair back, who now throws open the window, and rains curses and cold
mew-meow meow, mew mew meeeow meow mew meeeow, mew meeow meeeow mew meow

water on the influential meeting, momentarily interrupting the flow of
meoow me mew meeeoooooow meeooow, meeeoooooow meeeeeeeeeow mew meow me

harmony. Only momentarily however.
meoooow. Meow meeeeeeeeow meeeeow.




“Move on a garden or two,” suggests black Tom; “that old beast has no
“Meow me m meeoow me mew,” meeeooow meoow Mew; “meow mew meoow mew me

soul.”
meow.”




[Illustration: STRIPED, or BROWN TABBY.
[Meeeeeeeeoow: MEEEOOW, me MEEOW MEOOW.




First Prize--Owned by MISS M. E. MOORE.]
Meoow Meeow--Meoow me MEOW M. M. MEEOW.]




[Illustration: RED TABBY.
[Meeeeoooooow: MEW MEOOW.




First Prize--Owned by MISS FORSHALL.]
Meeow Meoow--Meoow me MEOW MEEEEOOW.]




And the concert goes on as before.
Mew mew meeeeow meow me me meooow.




Cats are republicans of the rubiest red. Communism is rampant in their
Meow mew meeeoooooow me mew meeeoow mew. Meoooooow me meoooow me meoow

ranks; and indeed, they seem to thrive on it. In our day, we hope
meeow; mew meeoow, meow meow me meooow me me. Me mew mew, me meow

communism will always be confined to the cats. There is no respect of
meeeeooow meow meooow me meeeeeow me mew meow. Meoow me me meoooow me

persons shown among cats. One cat is as good as another; and the sharpest
meeeoow meoow meeow meow. Mew mew me me meow me meoooow; mew mew meeeeeow

claw and the strongest arm rules supreme for the time. Beauty, rank, and
meow mew mew meeooooow mew meeow meeooow mew mew meow. Meeeow, meow, mew

breeding are alike despised. At pussy’s balls and assemblies, there is no
meooooow mew meeow meeeeeow. Me meeow’m meoow mew meeeeeeoow, meoow me me

such officer as master of ceremonies. Any gentleman may introduce himself
meow meeeoow me meooow me meeeeeeoow. Mew meoooooow mew meeeeeoow meeeoow

to any lady, he chooses, provided always she does not spit in his face,
me mew meow, me meoooow, meeeeeow meeoow mew meow mew meow me mew meow,

and box his ears; for, in this way, the lady never hesitates to express
mew mew mew meow; mew, me meow mew, mew meow meoow meeeeooow me meeooow

disapprobation of her partner. In so outspoken a community, boredom is
meeeeoooooooow me mew meeooow. Me me meoooooow m meeooooow, meeooow me

thus practically done away with, and there is a freedom from all
meow meeeoooooow meow meow meow, mew meeow me m meeeoow meow mew

affectation which is highly refreshing. There you may see my Lord
meeeeooooow meeow me meeoow meeeeeeeow. Meeow mew mew mew me Meow

Tom-noddy, whose noble form rests by day on a tiger-skin mat by a sea-coal
Mew-meeow, meeow meeow meow meeow me mew me m meeow-meow mew me m mew-meow

fire, whispering, nay, rather howling, soft nothings in the ears of Miss
meow, meeeeoooow, mew, meeoow meoooow, meow meeeeoow me mew meow me Meow

Pussy Black-leg, whose mistress keeps a marine store, at Wapping
Meeow Meeow-mew, meeow meooooow meoow m meooow meeow, me Meeooow

Old-stairs, and sits up nightly to “wait for Jack.” Yet no one can doubt
Mew-meooow, mew meow me meeooow me “meow mew Meow.” Mew me mew mew meoow

the genuineness of his lordship’s proposals, who marks his earnest manner,
mew meeeeeeooow me mew meeeeeow’m meeooooow, mew meoow mew meeooow meeeow,

or listens to the impassioned tones of his voice as he beseeches her to
me meoooow me mew meeeeeoooow meeow me mew meoow me me meoooooow mew me




  Fly, fil-ly with him now, ne-ow-w.
  Mew, mew-me meow mew mew, me-me-m.




The young and beautiful Lady Lovelace, with fur so long and white, and
Mew meoow mew meeeeeoow Meow Meeoooow, meow mew me meow mew meoow, mew

softer than eider-down, with eyes of himmel-blue, who sleeps all day on a
meooow meow meeow-meow, meow meow me meeeow-meow, mew meeoow mew mew me m

cushion of scarlet, and sips her creamy milk from a china saucer, is
meoooow me meeeoow, mew meow mew meooow meow meow m meeow meooow, me

yonder in a corner, flirting with the coal-heaver’s Bob. Bob’s ears are
meooow me m meeeow, meeeooow meow mew meow-meeeow’m Mew. Mew’m meow mew

rent in ribbons, his face is seamed with bloody scars, he is lame, his fur
meow me meoooow, mew meow me meooow meow meooow meeow, me me meow, mew mew

nearly all singed off, and he has only one eye and half a tail; but his
meeoow mew meeoow mew, mew me mew meow mew mew mew meow m meow; mew mew

voice, that is what has won the heart of the young beauty; and when the
meoow, meow me meow mew mew mew meeow me mew meeow meeoow; mew meow mew

ball is over he will convey her home in the moonlight to her splendid
meow me meow me meow meeeow mew meow me mew meeeeeeow me mew meeoooow

mansion in Belgravia--he himself will be content with an hour’s nod in the
meeooow me Meeeoooow--me meeooow meow me meoooow meow me meow’m mew me mew

coal cellar. The pretty pussy’s mistress is anxiously waiting for her
meow meeeow. Mew meeoow meeow’m meeeooow me meeeeeeow meoooow mew mew

darling, and will not sleep till she comes. But witness this lady-cat’s
meeeeow, mew meow mew meoow meow mew meeow. Mew meeooow meow meow-mew’m

slyness; she kisses Bob fondly on the top of the conservatory, then with
meeeeow; mew meeoow Mew meooow me mew mew me mew meooooooooow, meow meow

bushy tail and fur erect, she springs to the bedroom window, and enters
meoow meow mew mew meoow, mew meeeoow me mew meoooow meooow, mew meeeow

growling, and casting frightened glances behind her, and her doating
meeoooow, mew meeooow meeeeeeeow meeeoow meeoow mew, mew mew meeeeow

mistress caresses her gently, and tries to calm her fears. “And did the
meeeeoow meeeeeow mew meeeow, mew meeow me meow mew meeow. “Mew mew mew

nasty Tom-cat follow my litsy prettsy darling, then? And was it nearly
meoow Mew-mew meeoow me meeow meeooow meoooow, meow? Mew mew me meeeow

frightened out of its bootiful, tootiful lifie? Ah! pussy, now, then,
meeeooooow mew me mew meeeeoow, meeoooow meeow? Me! meeow, mew, meow,

now.”
mew.”




Sly, sly puss. Is slyness confined to the cat creation, or is it ever
Mew, mew meow. Me meoooow meeeeeow me mew mew meeeeoow, me me me meow

found among females of a higher persuasion--female women to wit?
meoow meoow meeeoow me m meeeow meeeeoooow--meeeow meeow me mew?




Cats are remarkably fond of comfort, and when the usages of society compel
Meow mew meeoooooow meow me meeeeow, mew meow mew meeoow me meeooow meooow

her to be up all night at a ball or concert, she goes to bed immediately
mew me me me mew meoow me m meow me meeeeow, mew meow me mew meeeeeoooow

after breakfast, and sleeps off every vestige of fatigue.
meeow meeeeooow, mew meeoow mew meeow meeeeow me meeooow.




I knew a cat that used to travel over six miles every other day to visit
M meow m mew meow meow me meeeow meow mew meoow meeow meoow mew me meoow

and have a gossip with another cat for which she had contracted a violent
mew meow m meeeow meow meeeeow mew mew meeow mew mew meeeeeooow m meeeeow

fancy. They were both lady-cats; but, strange to say, I never saw the
meeow. Meow meow meow meow-meow; mew, meeeeow me mew, M meoow mew mew

other cat return the visit.
meeow mew meeoow mew meeow.




Cats will often make almost incredibly long journeys, and endure fatigue
Meow meow meoow meow meeeow meeeeeooow meow meeeooow, mew meeeow meeeeow

and hardships innumerable in order to find a lost master or mistress.
mew meeeoooow meeooooooow me meeow me meow m meow meeoow me meeeeeow.




One cat I know travelled nearly a hundred miles into Wales, in search of
Mew mew M meow meeeoooow meooow m meoooow meoow meow Meeow, me meooow me

her master, who had gone and left her. She had been three weeks on the
mew meeoow, mew mew meow mew meow mew. Mew mew meow meoow meoow me mew

journey, and when success at last crowned her efforts, she was so weak and
meeooow, mew meow meeeoow me meow meoooow mew meeeoow, mew mew me meow mew

emaciated, that she tumbled down with a fond cry at her master’s feet.
meeeoooow, meow mew meoooow meow meow m meow mew me mew meeoow’m meow.




The difficulty of “wandering” cats is well known. You may “wander” a dog
Mew meeeeeeoow me “meeeeooow” meow me meow meoow. Mew mew “meeeow” m mew

easily; but not pussy, for if so inclined, she will assuredly find her way
meeeow; mew mew meoow, mew me me meooooow, mew meow meeooooow meow mew mew

back somehow at some time.
meow meoooow me meow meow.




You may shut her up in a basket or bag and take her for miles through the
Mew mew meow mew me me m meooow me mew mew meow mew mew meoow meeeeow mew

most intricate streets, or over a covered country; but in all probability
meow meeeeooow meeeoow, me meow m meeeeow meeooow; mew me mew meoooooooow

she will be back in a day or two, if indeed you do not find her on the
mew meow me meow me m mew me mew, me meooow mew me mew meow mew me mew

door step on your return.
meow meow me meow meeeow.




A gentleman in the neighbourhood of London, before going to reside in the
M meeeeeeow me mew meoooooooooow me Meeoow, meeoow meeow me meooow me mew

city gave his cat away to a friend. Two years after she turned up at his
meow meow mew mew meow me m meooow. Mew meoow meeow mew meeoow me me mew

city residence; and although very thin and impoverished, manifested great
meow meeeoooow; mew meeeeoow meow meow mew meeeeeeeeoow, meeeeoooow meeow

joy on seeing her old master. Whether or not the party to whom the cat had
mew me meeoow mew mew meeeow. Meeeeow me mew mew meoow me meow mew mew mew

been presented had come to live in London, and brought the cat with him, I
meow meeeeooow mew meow me meow me Meeeow, mew meeeoow mew mew meow mew, M

do not know; but the story is a fact. Moreover, the cat could not have
me mew meow; mew mew meoow me m meow. Meeeeoow, mew mew meoow mew meow

been taken back on purpose, as she came by the tiles.
meow meeow meow me meeeeow, me mew meow me mew meoow.




There can be no longer any doubt, that pussy possesses some power or
Meoow mew me me meeeow mew meeow, meow meeow meeeeooow meow meoow me

instinct which enables her to find her way back, ever so far, to the place
meeoooow meoow meeeeow mew me meow mew mew meow, meow me mew, me mew meoow

where she has once resided, and that too unerringly. We cannot pretend to
meeow mew mew meow meeeoow, mew meow mew meooooooow. Me meeoow meeeeow me

understand this, any more than we can the principle that guides the
meeeeeeoow meow, mew meow meow me mew mew meeeeeeow meow meeoow mew

carrier pigeon; but true it is, “there are more things in heaven and earth
meeeeow meooow; mew meow me me, “meeow mew meow meeoow me meooow mew meoow

than we dream of in our philosophy.”
meow me meeow me me mew meeoooooow.”













CHAPTER XI.
MEOOOOW ME.




[_See Note K, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m]




“IS CATS TO BE TRUSTED?”
“ME MEOW ME ME MEEOOOW?”







“_Is_ cats to be trusted?” was to have been the title of an essay from the
“mEow meow me me meeeoow?” mew me meow meow mew meoow me me meeow meow mew

pen of poor Artemus Ward. “_Is_ cats to be trusted?” my starling has been
mew me meow Meeeoow Meow. “mEow meow me me meeeoow?” me meeeeoow mew meow

taught to repeat, and often does so while running round the cat on the
meeeow me meeeow, mew meoow meow me meeow meeeoow meoow mew mew me mew

floor, examining her tail, opening up her paws with his beak, and
meoow, meeeeeoow mew meow, meeooow me mew meow meow mew meow, mew

occasionally making determined attempts to open up her nose also, and peep
meeeeeooooow meeoow meeeeeeoow meeeeoow me meow me mew meow meow, mew meow

down her throat. As far as she is concerned, the bird is I think perfectly
meow mew meeoow. Me mew me mew me meoooooow, mew meow me M meoow meoooooow

safe; for although she often pats him with her gloved hand when he gets
meow; mew meooooow mew meeow meow mew meow mew meooow meow meow me meow

too insinuating, she never otherwise attempts to molest him. I fear in his
mew meeeoooooow, mew meoow meeeeooow meeeeeow me meooow mew. M meow me mew

essay Artemus meant to have had a few jokes at pussy’s expense. My aim is
meeow Meeooow meeow me meow mew m mew meoow me meeow’m meeeeow. Me mew me

a more serious one. A question like this, which to pussy is a most
m meow meeooow mew. M meooooow meow meow, meoow me meoow me m meow

momentous one, affecting not only her comfort and happiness, but her
meeeeooow mew, meeeeooow mew meow mew meeeeow mew meeooooow, mew mew

standing as a social pet and her very existence itself, cannot be treated
meeeeoow me m meeeow mew mew mew meow meeeoooow meeeow, meooow me meeeoow

lightly in a work like the present. My own opinion is, and always has
meeeoow me m meow meow mew meeeeow. Me mew meoooow me, mew meooow mew

been, that if cats are properly fed and cared for, they will do anything
meow, meow me meow mew meeeeeow mew mew meoow mew, meow meow me meooooow

rather than steal. But not content with giving my own experience, which
meooow meow meeow. Mew mew meeeoow meow meooow me mew meeeeeeeow, meeow

some might say was exceptional, I have placed pussy in court, as it were,
meow meeow mew mew meoooooooow, M meow meooow meoow me meeow, me me meow,

and given her a long, fair, and impartial trial, summoning evidence _pro_
mew meeow mew m meow, meow, mew meeeeeeow meeow, meeooooow meeoooow meeow

and _con_ from every part of Great Britain and Ireland. The trial has
mew meeow meow meoow meow me Meeow Meeooow mew Meeeeow. Mew meoow mew

lasted for months, and the Tichborne Case, as a Yankee would say, isn’t a
meeeow mew meeeow, mew mew Meeeeeoow Meow, me m Meooow meeow mew, mew’m m

circumstance to it in regard to the number of witnesses examined. The
meeeeeeeeoow me me me meeeow me mew meeoow me meeeeeoow meeeeeow. Mew

judgment has been overwhelmingly in pussy’s favour, and the verdict of the
meooooow mew meow meeeeeeeeoooow me meoow’m meeeow, mew mew meeeoow me mew

jury as follows:--
meow me meeeoow:--




“_Cats are not as a rule thieves, but quite the reverse._”
“mEoow mew mew me m meow meeeeow, mew meeow mew meeooow.m”




In every case investigated, where the theft was proved, it turned out that
Me meeow meow meeeeeeeeoow, meoow mew meeow mew meeoow, me meeoow mew meow

the cat was either starved, or illtreated, or spoiled. Moreover, the
mew mew mew meooow meeeeow, me meeeeeeeow, me meeooow. Meeeeoow, mew

witnesses for the prosecution--in the minority--were, to use a homely
meeeeeoow mew mew meeeeeeeeow--me mew meeoooow--meow, me mew m meeeow

phrase, a foggy lot, rude and illiterate, people with no definite ideas
meooow, m meoow mew, meow mew meooooooow, meooow meow me meeeeeow meoow

about their “h’s,” whose capitals were sown broadcast, who wrote “i
meoow meoow “m’m,” meoow meooooow meow meow meeeeooow, mew meeow “m

Know,” and spelt cat with a “k”; while those for the defence were in every
Meow,” mew meoow mew meow m “m”; meoow meoow mew mew meeooow meow me meeow

way the reverse, both socially and orthographically; people with crests
mew mew meeeoow, meow meeeeoow mew meeeeeooooooooow; meeoow meow meeoow

and monograms, who wrote on one side of the paper only, and all letters
mew meeooooow, mew meeow me mew meow me mew meeow meow, mew mew meeeeow

prepaid.
meoooow.




So Miss Puss I think may stand down: she leaves the court without a stain
Me Meow Meow M meeow mew meeow meow: mew meeoow mew meoow meoooow m meeow

upon her character.
meow mew meoooooow.




Now, while boldly asserting that cats are as a rule honest, I do not mean
Mew, meeow meooow meeeoooow meow meow mew me m meow meeoow, M me mew meow

to say that all are so. There are rogues among cats as well as among men;
me mew meow mew mew me. Meeow mew meooow meeow meow me meow me meeow mew;

but just as we find that the law often makes men thieves, so likewise will
mew meow me me meow meow mew mew meoow meeow mew meeeoow, me meeeeeow meow

cats become thieves if badly treated. What can be more disgraceful than
meow meooow meeeeow me meoow meeeeow. Meow mew me meow meoooooooow meow

the habit that some people have of systematically starving their cats,
mew meeow meow meow meeeow meow me meeeooooooooow meeeeoow meoow meow,

under the mistaken notion that they will thus become better mousers; or
meoow mew meeeeoow meeoow meow meow meow meow meooow meeoow meoooow; me

the custom of many of putting their cats out all night, no matter how wet
mew meeeow me meow me meoooow meeow meow mew mew meoow, me meeeow mew mew

or cold the night should be. Such treatment of pussy is greatly to be
me meow mew meoow meeoow me. Meow meoooooow me meeow me meoooow me me

condemned, and only tends to foster habits of uncleanliness, of thieving,
meeeeeeow, mew meow meoow me meeeow meooow me meeeoooooooow, me meeeeoow,

and of prowling. By regular feeding, good housing, occasional judicious
mew me meooooow. Me meeooow meoooow, meow meeeoow, meeoooooow meeeoooow

correction--when puss is found tripping--and kindness, you may make almost
meooooooow--meow meow me meoow meeeooow--mew meooooow, mew mew meow meeoow

any cat honest.
mew mew meeoow.




Pussy does not soon forget having been corrected for a fault.
Meeow meow mew meow meeoow meooow meow meeeeooow mew m meeow.




Black Tom, mentioned in a former chapter, never went back to Dan’s
Meeow Mew, meeooooow me m meeoow meeeoow, meoow meow meow me Mew’m

hen-house again.
mew-meeow meoow.




A Tom-cat, called Bruce, lived some years ago, at a farm-house near
M Mew-mew, meeoow Meoow, meoow meow meeow mew, me m meow-meeow meow

Dundee. This cat--honest in every other way--could never resist the
Meeeow. Meow mew--meeeow me meoow meeow mew--meoow meeow meeeow mew

temptation to steal the cream. All efforts to cure him of this habit were
meeeeeeeow me meeow mew meeow. Mew meeooow me meow mew me meow meoow meow

resorted to in vain. But one day, Bruce, much to his own satisfaction
meeeeoow me me meow. Mew mew mew, Meoow, meow me mew mew meeeooooooow

found himself shut up in the milk-house. When all was quiet, Bruce came
meeow meeeeow meow me me mew meow-meoow. Meow mew mew meeow, Meeow meow

from his corner and had a look round. What a grand and imposing array of
meow mew meeeow mew mew m meow meoow. Meow m meeow mew meeoooow meeow me

basins of milk and tubs-full of cream! One of the latter stood on a table
meeeow me meow mew meow-meow me meeow! Mew me mew meooow meeow me m meeow

beneath the window, the edge of the tub being on a level with the sill. It
meeeeow mew meeeow, mew meow me mew mew meeow me m meeow meow mew meow. Me

was the largest tub in the room; and blessing his luck, up jumped Bruce
mew mew meeeoow mew me mew meow; mew meeeooow mew meow, me meeeow Meeow

and began to lick. It was so delicious, and Bruce closed his eyes to get
mew meeow me meow. Me mew me meeeoooow, mew Meeow meeoow mew meow me mew

the full flavour of it. Just then, however, some noise outside startled
mew meow meoooow me me. Meow meow, meeooow, meow meoow meeeeow meeeeoow

him,--he knew he was sinning, and was consequently nervous,--and in
mew,--me meow me mew meeeeow, mew mew meooooooooow meoooow,--mew me

turning round, he missed his feet, and fell heels over head into the tub.
meoooow meeow, me meooow mew meow, mew meow meoow meow meow meow mew mew.

Although half-choked, so soon as he came up, Bruce struck out boldly for
Meeeooow meow-meeoow, me meow me me meow me, Meeow meeeow mew meooow mew

the shore, but the sides of the vessel were too slippery even for a cat to
mew meoow, mew mew meoow me mew meeoow meow mew meeeeoow meow mew m mew me

hold on to; besides, the weight of the cream clogged his movements. He
meow me me; meeeeow, mew meeeow me mew meeow meeeoow mew meeooooow. Me

would fain not have screamed, but death stared him in the face, and the
meoow meow mew meow meeeeeow, mew meoow meeoow mew me mew meow, mew mew

idea of dying in a tub of milk, as he had seen mice die, was awful; so he
meow me meeow me m mew me meow, me me mew meow meow mew, mew meeow; me me

opened his mouth and gave vent to a smothered yell. That yell,
meeeow mew meoow mew meow meow me m meeeeeeow meow. Meow meow,

loud-resounding through the house, brought “ben” the good-wife, and
meow-meeeeeeeow meeeoow mew meeow, meoooow “mew” mew meow-meow, mew

Bruce’s life was saved at the expense of about three pints of cream; but
Meoow’m meow mew meeow me mew meeeoow me meoow meoow meoow me meeow; mew

never more did that cat go near the milk-house. He was a reformed cat from
meoow meow mew meow mew me meow mew meow-meeow. Me mew m meeeeeow mew meow

that day; a burning and a shining light to all the cats in the
meow mew; m meoooow mew m meoooow meoow me mew mew meow me mew

country-side.
meeeeow-meow.




I know a cat--a Tom, as usual--who always sits on his master’s counter,
M meow m mew--m Mew, me meoow--mew meeeow meow me mew meeeow’m meoooow,

surrounded by provisions of all sorts, but he was never known to steal.
meeeooooow me meeeeoooow me mew meoow, mew me mew meeow meeow me meoow.

This cat has a penchant for pickled herrings; and although he might easily
Meow mew mew m meeeooow mew meoooow meooooow; mew meeoooow me meoow meeoow

help himself by day or night, he always prefers asking his master for one.
meow meeeoow me mew me meeow, me meeoow meeeeow meeoow mew meeeow mew mew.

This he accomplishes in the usual cat fashion, by running towards the
Meow me meeeeeeeeoow me mew meoow mew meeeeow, me meoooow meoooow mew

barrel and mewing up in his master’s face; and of course this appeal is
meeoow mew meooow me me mew meeoow’m meow; mew me meeoow meow meeeow me

never made in vain.
meeow meow me meow.




Cats are remarkably fond of fish. The other day, a bonnie fishwife was
Meow mew meeeeeooow meow me meow. Mew meoow mew, m meeoow meooooow mew

standing on the pavement with her creel on her back. Suddenly she was
meeoooow me mew meeeooow meow mew meoow me mew meow. Meeoooow mew mew

heard to scream aloud. “For the love o’ the Lord, sir,” she cried to a
meeow me meeeow meoow. “Mew mew meow m’ mew Meow, mew,” mew meoow me m

bystander, “tell me what’s that on my back.” The party addressed looked
meoooooow, “meow me meow’m meow me me meow.” Mew meeow meeooooow meooow

about, just in time to see a pussy disappearing round a corner, with a
meeow, meow me meow me mew m meeow meeeeeeeeoow meoow m meeeow, meow m

large fish in its mouth. That was what the newspapers would call an
meeow meow me mew meoow. Meow mew meow mew meeeeeooow meeow meow me

impudent theft, and it was certainly a clever one.
meeeooow meoow, mew me mew meeeoooow m meeoow mew.




If not properly trained and cared for, pussy comes--like the Ladrone
Me mew meeoooow meeooow mew meoow mew, meoow meoow--meow mew Meeeoow

islanders--to look upon stealing as a virtue; and no wonder, for she must
meeeeeoow--me meow meow meeoooow me m meeeow; mew me meooow, mew mew meow

think it hard to starve in the midst of plenty, and in her master’s
meeow me meow me meeeow me mew meoow me meooow, mew me mew meeoow’m

house. Besides, there is always two ways of viewing a matter. Out on the
meoow. Meeeoow, meeow me meooow mew meow me meeeoow m meeeow. Mew me mew

coast of Africa, I have often gone on shore--for the fun of the
meoow me Meeoow, M meow meeow meow me meoow--mew mew mew me mew

thing--with a party of other officers, to assist in replenishing our
meeow--meow m meoow me meeow meeoooow, me meooow me meooooooooow mew

larder by the addition of a few fat fowls, a sucking grunter, or a kid of
meooow me mew meeeeeow me m mew mew meoow, m meoooow meeeeow, me m mew me

the goats. I rather think we stole them; but we called these little trips,
mew meeow. M meooow meoow me meoow meow; mew me meeoow meeow meeoow meoow,

“cutting-out expeditions;” still we swore “’pon honour,” and wore our
“meeeoow-mew meeeoooooow;” meeow me meeow “’mew meeoow,” mew meow mew

swords none the less clankingly on a Sunday morning; nor would it have
meeoow meow mew meow meeeeoooow me m Meooow meeeeow; mew meeow me meow

been safe for any one to have hinted that we were dishonest.
meow meow mew mew mew me meow meooow meow me meow meeeoooow.




Just so with poor pussy. She is often tempted by hunger to make a little
Meow me meow meow meoow. Mew me meoow meoooow me meeoow me meow m meeoow

reprisal. It is vulgar to accuse her of stealing the steak, nailing a
meeeooow. Me me meooow me meooow mew me meeeooow mew meoow, meeeeow m

fish, or boning a cold chicken, “cutting-out,” is the proper term. It is a
meow, me meeeow m meow meeooow, “meeeoow-mew,” me mew meeoow meow. Me me m

feline virtue, from the path of which she must be seduced in early
meeeow meeeow, meow mew meow me meoow mew meow me meeeoow me meoow

kitten-hood, and by good treatment. But poor pussy is often made the
meeeow-meow, mew me meow meoooooow. Mew meow meoow me meoow meow mew

scape-goat for the sins of others.
meeow-meow mew mew meow me meeoow.




“Mary, bring up those cold pigeons.”
“Meow, meeow me meeow meow meeooow.”




“O ma’am! how _ever_ shall I tell you? That thief of a cat--”
“M me’me! mew meeoow meoow M meow mew? Meow meoow me m mew--”




“The cat must be drowned,” says her mistress.
“Mew mew meow me meeeeow,” meow mew meeeooow.




“Oh, no, ma’am! Poor thing! no, ma’am.”
“Me, me, me’me! Meow meoow! me, me’me.”




It wouldn’t exactly suit Mary’s book to have pussy drowned. It would
Me meeoow’m meeooow meow Meow’m meow me meow meeow meoooow. Me meeow

seriously interfere with those nice little suppers, she is in the habit of
meeooooow meeeeooow meow meoow meow meeeow meoooow, mew me me mew meoow me

having with Matilda Jane.
meeoow meow Meeeoow Meow.




“Sarah, we’ll have the remains of that cold lamb for supper.”
“Meoow, me’me meow mew meoooow me meow meow meow mew meeoow.”




“Oh! dear me, ma’am; I forgot to tell you, the cat has eaten every bit of
“Me! meow me, me’me; M meooow me meow mew, mew mew mew meeow meoow mew me

it. Can open the pantry-door, just like you or I, ma’am.”
me. Mew meow mew meooow-meow, meow meow mew me M, me’me.”




I should think it could; the cat in this case being an enormous blue Tom
M meooow meoow me meoow; mew mew me meow meow meoow me meeeeoow meow Mew

tabby, with a stripe round one forearm, and a belt about his waist, and X
meeow, meow m meeoow meeow mew meeooow, mew m meow meeow mew meoow, mew M

99 on the collar of his coat.
me me mew meooow me mew meow.




The following is the story of a real feline Jack Sheppard, I have no
Mew meeeeeeow me mew meoow me m meow meooow Meow Meeeeeow, M meow me

excuse to offer for this cat; I can only say that if he was a thief, he
meeoow me meoow mew meow mew; M mew meow mew meow me me mew m meeow, me

was a _swell at it_.
mew m meeeow me mew.




In a sweet little village not far from the famous old town of bonnie
Me m meeow meeeow meoooow mew mew meow mew meeeow mew meow me meooow

Dundee, lived, and I believe still lives, Peter McFarlane, a shoemaker,
Meooow, meoow, mew M meeeeow meeow meoow, Meeow MeEeeooow, m meeeeeoow,

and his wife Tibbie; two as decent old bodies as you would see in all
mew mew meow Meeeow; mew me meeoow mew meeeow me mew meoow mew me mew

broad Scotland. They were honest and industrious, and, as a rule, agreed,
meoow Meeeeeow. Meow meow meeeow mew meoooooooow, mew, me m meow, meeoow,

or as the folks say, they both “said one way,” except when Peter took a
me me mew meoow mew, meow meow “meow mew mew,” meeoow meow Meoow meow m

dram, when, it must be confessed, the ashes did at times find their way up
meow, meow, me meow me meeeeooow, mew meoow mew me meoow meow meeow mew me

the chimney along with the smoke. They had no family but one,--a cat. A
mew meeooow meoow meow mew meoow. Meow mew me meeeow mew mew,--m mew. M

fine gentlemanly fellow he was too; dressed in the blackest of fur, and
meow meeeeooooow meooow me mew mew; meoooow me mew meeoooow me mew, mew

faultless to a degree, barring that he was the biggest thief ever known in
meeeeeeow me m meeeow, meeeeow meow me mew mew meeeoow meoow meow meoow me

the village, or whole country-side. Every one complained of Tom; and, as
mew meeooow, me meoow meoooow-meow. Meoow mew meeeeeeoow me Mew; mew, me

he got older, his delinquencies were ever on the increase. Allowing
me mew meoow, mew meeeoooooooow meow meow me mew meooooow. Meooooow

thieving to be a virtue among cats of his class, Tom was a saint, and ripe
meeeooow me me m meeoow meeow meow me mew meeow, Mew mew m meeow, mew meow

for glory long ago. The butcher, do what he liked, could not save his
mew meoow meow mew. Mew meeeeow, me meow me meoow, meoow mew meow mew

kidneys,--it was remarkable that Tom never touched the sausages,--he was
meeeeow,--me mew meooooooow meow Mew meoow meeooow mew meeoooow,--me mew

always content with kidneys, although if none were to be had, to pussy’s
meeeow meeooow meow meeeeow, meeoooow me meow meow me me mew, me meoow’m

honour be it said, he did not despise a lump of steak or even a nice lamb
meeeow me me meow, me mew mew meoooow m meow me meoow me meow m meow meow

chop. Tom was a regular customer at the fish-monger’s; his weakness here
meow. Mew mew m meeeeow meeoooow me mew meow-meeeow’m; mew meeeeoow meow

being for Loch Fyne herrings,--they were handy; but he delighted also in
meeow mew Meow Meow meeeeoow,--meow meow meoow; mew me meoooooow meow me

the centre cut of a salmon, and in half-pound sea-trout. It has even been
mew meooow mew me m meeeow, mew me meow-meoow mew-meoow. Me mew meow meow

said, that Tom did not share his custom equally among the shop-keepers,
meow, meow Mew mew mew meeow mew meeeow meeeoow meoow mew meow-meoooow,

spending too much of his time at the fish-monger’s counter; but, as his
meeeeeow mew meow me mew meow me mew meow-meeoow’m meeeeow; mew, me mew

biographer, I must defend his name from any such allegation. Although it
meooooooow, M meow meeeow mew meow meow mew meow meeeeoooow. Meeoooow me

must be admitted he never paid ready-money, still he was never too proud
meow me meeeeeow me meeow meow meeow-meoow, meoow me mew meeow mew meoow

to carry away his purchase. Tom used to enter the poor people’s houses
me meoow meow mew meeeeoow. Mew meow me meeow mew meow meeoow’m meeeow

about dinner-time, watch his chance, and purloin the meat from under their
meeow meooow-meow, meoow mew meeeow, mew meeeoow mew meow meow meoow meoow

very noses. Once he lifted the lid from a broth-pot, and decamped with the
meow meeow. Meow me meeoow mew mew meow m meoow-mew, mew meeoooow meow mew

boiling chicken. This cat was never known to drink water when he could
meeeeow meeooow. Meow mew mew meoow meoow me meoow meeow meow me meeow

find a milk-pan; nor milk, either, if the cream-jug was at all handy. He
meow m meow-mew; mew meow, meooow, me mew meoow-mew mew me mew meeow. Me

was even accused of having sucked the cows; and when hard pressed with
mew meow meeeeow me meooow meeeow mew meow; mew meow meow meeeoow meow

hunger, he did not despise a piece of cheese or a tallow candle from the
meooow, me mew mew meeooow m meeow me meeoow me m meeeow meooow meow mew

grocer’s round the corner. He never troubled himself catching
meooow’m meeow mew meooow. Me meoow meeeooow meeeoow meeeeoow

mice,--chickens came handier; and tame pigeons he found were more
meow,--meeeeeow meow meeooow; mew meow meoooow me meeow meow meow

satisfying than sparrows. Tom could break in or out of any place, climb
meeeeoooow meow meooooow. Mew meeow meeow me me mew me mew meoow, meeow

anything, and jump--the neighbours all said--“the d----l’s height;” I
meeeeoow, mew meow--mew meeoooooow mew meow--“mew m----m’m meooow;” M

don’t know how tall that gentleman is at Dundee, but he must be over
mew’m meow mew meow meow meeeeeeow me me Meeeow, mew me meow me meow

twenty feet, for Tom could do that easily, and alight on his pumps. At
meeoow meow, mew Mew meeow me meow meooow, mew meooow me mew meeow. Me

long-last the cat became so notorious, and the outcry against him so loud
meow-meow mew mew meeoow me meeeeooow, mew mew meeeow meoooow mew me meow

and universal, that the shoemaker and Tibbie, yielding to the entreaties
mew meeooooow, meow mew meeooooow mew Meeeow, meeeeeow me mew meeeeeooow

of the villagers, resolved to have him drowned.
me mew meeooooow, meeeooow me meow mew meeeoow.




On a cold winter’s night, then, honest Peter and three of the neighbours
Me m meow meeeow’m meeow, meow, meeoow Meeow mew meeow me mew meeoooooow

might have been seen--had there been light enough to see them--trudging
meeow meow meow meow--mew meoow meow meeow meooow me mew meow--meeeooow

along towards the pier, with the unhappy but virtuous Tom in a sack.
meeow meeeeow mew meow, meow mew meeeoow mew meooooow Mew me m meow.

Arrived at the place of execution, a consultation was held as to how the
Meeeoow me mew meeow me meeeeooow, m meeeeeeeeeow mew meow me me mew mew

job should be done. There wasn’t a stone to be had, and Peter said he
mew meooow me meow. Meeow meow’m m meeow me me mew, mew Meoow meow me

wasn’t going to lose his sack; it was bad enough to lose the cat; so it
meow’m meeow me meow mew meow; me mew mew meeeow me meow mew mew; me me

was resolved to take Tom out and swing him clear off into the water. More
mew meeeeeow me meow Mew mew mew meoow mew meeow mew meow mew meeow. Meow

easily said than done. Tom was no sooner out of the bag, than by a
meeoow meow meow meow. Mew mew me meooow mew me mew mew, meow me m

successful application of tooth and nail, he wriggled himself free, and in
meeeeeooow meeooooooow me meoow mew meow, me meeeooow meoooow meow, mew me

a moment more was lost in the darkness. Peter scratched his head, the
m meeoow meow mew meow me mew meooooow. Meeow meoooooow mew meow, mew

neighbours scratched their three heads, and they all felt funny and
meooooooow meeooooow meoow meeow meeow, mew meow mew meow meeow mew

foolish. They determined however not to make laughing-stocks of
meoooow. Meow meeeeeeeow meeooow mew me meow meeeooow-meeoow me

themselves, so they returned to Peter’s house with the joyful
meeoooooow, me meow meeoooow me Meeow’m meoow meow mew meooow

intelligence, that Tom was a cat of the past.
meooooooooow, meow Mew mew m mew me mew meow.




Here were the fishwife and the milkwife, and the grocer and his wife, and
Meow meow mew meeeeeow mew mew meeeeeow, mew mew meeeow mew mew meow, mew

the butcher--who hadn’t a wife, all assembled to hear the good news; and
mew meoooow--mew meow’m m meow, mew meeeeeeow me meow mew meow meow; mew

it was unanimously resolved to celebrate the event by making a night of
me mew meeeeeeooow meeoooow me meeeeeoow mew meoow me meeeow m meeow me

it; and, although the people of Dundee and round-about are generally glad
me; mew, meooooow mew meeeow me Meooow mew meeow-meeow mew meeooooow meow

of any excuse to make a night of it, still it must be admitted that the
me mew meeeow me meow m meoow me me, meoow me meow me meeeeeow meow mew

present occasion urgently called for “cakes and whuskey.” So the fishwife
meeeoow meeeooow meeeeeow meooow mew “meoow mew meoooow.” Me mew meeeeoow

brought salmon, the milkwife brought milk, the butcher brought steak, and
meeeeow meooow, mew meooooow meeeoow meow, mew meoooow meoooow meeow, mew

the grocer whiskey galore; Tibbie with her best new mutch did the cooking,
mew meooow meeeoow meooow; Meeoow meow mew meow mew meeow mew mew meeooow,

and they all sat down to eat and to drink and be merry. No Indian
mew meow mew mew meow me mew mew me meeow mew me meeow. Me Meeoow

villagers, just released from the dominion of a man-eating tiger, could
meeeeeoow, meow meeeooow meow mew meeeooow me m mew-meeeow meeow, meeow

have felt jollier than did those good folks at the thoughts of thieving
meow meow meeeeow meow mew meeow meow meeow me mew meeoooow me meeoooow

Tom’s demise.
Mew’m meeeow.




“May the deil gang wi’ him,” was one of the toasts to Tom’s memory.
“Mew mew meow meow me’ mew,” mew mew me mew meeoow me Mew’m meeoow.




“And a’ the ill-weather,” was another.
“Mew m’ mew mew-meoooow,” mew meeeeow.




“If there be,” said the fishwife, “an ill-place for the souls o’ cats,
“Me meeow me,” meow mew meeeeoow, “me mew-meeow mew mew meeow m’ meow,

that black beast ’ll hae a hot neuk in’t.”
meow meeow meeow ’me mew m mew meow me’m.”




“Ay, but,” said the grocer,--a godly man and an elder of the Free
“Me, mew,” meow mew meeoow,--m meoow mew mew me meeow me mew Meow

Church,--“speak nae ill o’ the dead, Eppie, but pass the whuskey, and I’ll
Meeeow,--“meeow mew mew m’ mew meow, Meoow, mew meow mew meoooow, mew M’me

gie ye a bit sang.” He sung the death of Heather Jock, which was by no
mew me m mew meow.” Me meow mew meoow me Meoooow Meow, meoow mew me me

means inappropriate.
meoow meeeeooooooow.




“And so the nicht drave on wi’ sangs and clatter,” and the fingers of old
“Mew me mew meeow meeow me me’ meoow mew meeeoow,” mew mew meeooow me mew

Peter’s eight-day clock were creeping slowly towards “the wee short hour
Meoow’m meoow-mew meeow meow meeeooow meeeow meeeeow “mew mew meoow meow

ayont the twal,” when,--
meoow mew meow,” meow,--




“Well, neighbours,” says Peter, the hypocrite, “we’re a’ glad the cat has
“Meow, meeeeeeoow,” meow Meoow, mew meeooooow, “me’me m’ meow mew mew mew

gane we a’ his weight o’ crime on his sinfu’ shou’ders. Let us eat that
meow me m’ mew meeeow m’ meoow me mew meeow’ meow’meow. Mew me mew meow

last pound o’ steak, finish the bottle, and gang to bed.”
meow meeow m’ meeow, meooow mew meeeow, mew meow me mew.”




“There is many a slip ’twixt the cup and the lip;” and scarcely had Peter
“Meoow me meow m meow ’meeow mew mew mew mew mew;” mew meooooow mew Meoow

done speaking, when the door opened, apparently of its own accord. The
meow meeeooow, meow mew meow meeoow, meeeeeooow me mew mew meeoow. Mew

cold night-wind blew in with a ghostly sough, and the candles were
meow meeow-meow meow me meow m meeeoow meoow, mew mew meoooow meow

extinguished. But lo! on the table, in their very midst, and dimly seen by
meeeeeooooow. Mew me! me mew meeow, me meeow meow meeow, mew meoow meow me

the smouldering firelight, stood Tom himself, with back erect and gleaming
mew meeeoooooow meoooooow, meoow Mew meeeeow, meow meow meoow mew meeeeoow

eyes. Never was such kicking and screaming heard anywhere. The fishwife
meow. Meeow mew meow meeeeow mew meeeeeoow meoow meeeeeow. Mew meeeeeow

fainted, and the milkwife fainted, and the godly grocer and his wife
meeooow, mew mew meooooow meoooow, mew mew meoow meeeow mew mew meow

fainted, and the butcher--who hadn’t a wife at all, fell down on top of
meeooow, mew mew meeooow--mew meow’m m meow me mew, meow meow me mew me

the others, for company’s sake. But Peter and the three guilty neighbours
mew meeeow, mew meeeeow’m meow. Mew Meoow mew mew meeow meooow meeoooooow

stood in a corner--dumb. When order was at length restored, and the
meeow me m meooow--meow. Meow meoow mew me meeoow meeeeoow, mew mew

candles re-lit, the old shoemaker told his true version of the story, and
meeeeow me-mew, mew mew meoooooow meow mew meow meoooow me mew meeow, mew

was very properly forgiven. But where was Tom? Tom was gone, and _so was
mew meow meeoooow meeeeoow. Mew meoow mew Mew? Mew mew meow, mew mew mew

the beef steak_! And from that day to this, never again was Tom heard of
mew meow meooow! Mew meow meow mew me meow, meoow meeow mew Mew meeow me

in that sweet little village near bonnie Dundee.
me meow meeow meeeow meeeeow meow meooow Meeoow.




That cat _was_ a thief.
Meow mew meeow m meeow.













CHAPTER XII.
MEEEEOW MEW.




[_See Note L, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeeoow.m]




PUSSY AS A MOTHER.
MEEOW ME M MEEOOW.







A careful and fond mother is our pussy-cat. In no case is her wisdom and
M meeooow mew meow meooow me mew meeow-mew. Me me meow me mew meeoow mew

sagacity better exhibited than in the love and care she displays for her
meeeeoow meeeow meeooooow meow me mew meow mew meow mew meeeooow mew mew

offspring. Weeks before the interesting event comes off, pussy has been
meeooooow. Meoow meeeow mew meeooooooow meoow meeow mew, meeow mew meow

“upstairs and downstairs and in the lady’s chamber,” looking for the
“meooooow mew meeeeoooow mew me mew meow’m meeeeow,” meeooow mew mew

snuggest corner or the cosiest closet in which to bring forth her young.
meooooow meooow me mew meoooow meooow me meoow me meoow meeow mew meeow.

In this matter different cats have different opinions. Some prefer a
Me meow meeeow meeeeeeow meow meow meoooooow meeeeeow. Meow meeoow m

feather-bed when they can manage it, some a bundle of rags, some an old
meeeeow-mew meow meow mew meeoow me, meow m meeeow me meow, meow me mew

newspaper or humble straw, while others believe the acme of comfort is to
meoooooow me meeoow meoow, meeow meeoow meoooow mew meow me meeeeow me me

lie inside a lady’s bonnet or a gentleman’s wig. Wherever pussy has chosen
mew meooow m meow’m meeeow me m meoooooow’m mew. Meeeeeow meoow mew meooow

to have her kittens, there in that room or closet she prefers to nurse
me meow mew meeeeow, meeow me meow meow me meeoow mew meeeoow me meoow

them, and should they and she be removed to another she will persist in
meow, mew meooow meow mew mew me meoooow me meoooow mew meow meeeoow me

carrying her offspring back to the old place, however comfortable the new
meeoooow mew meeeeeoow meow me mew mew meeow, meeeeow meeeeeoooow mew mew

bed may be. This proves that pussy like human beings of the same gender
mew mew me. Meow meeeow meow meoow meow meoow meooow me mew meow meeoow

has a will of her own.
mew m meow me mew mew.




I know an instance of a cat, whose kittens were removed by her master from
M meow me meeeeeow me m mew, meoow meoooow meow meeeeow me mew meeeow meow

the attic in which they were born, to a snug little berth in the barn. The
mew meeow me meoow meow meow meow, me m meow meeeow meoow me mew meow. Mew

cottage doors were closed against her, but Mrs. Puss was not to be balked,
meeeeow meeow meow meeeow meeeoow mew, mew Mew. Meow mew mew me me meeoow,

and next morning found her and her family comfortably re-ensconced in the
mew meow meeooow meeow mew mew mew meeeow meeeeeoooow me-meeeeeeow me mew

old quarters: during the night she had smashed the attic sky-light, and
mew meeeeeow: meeeow mew meoow mew mew meeooow mew meoow mew-meoow, mew

carried her kittens through one by one. Pussy gained her point and was
meeeoow mew meeooow meeeeow mew me mew. Meoow meeeow mew meoow mew mew

happy.
meoow.




I know a lady whose cat has had a litter of _one kitten_. It is her first,
M meow m meow meeow mew mew mew m meooow me meow meeooow. Me me mew meeow,

and if she had produced ten she could not possibly be prouder of the
mew me mew mew meeeeoow mew mew meeow mew meooooow me meeooow me mew

performance. It is amusing to watch the care and affection she bestows on
meeeoooooow. Me me meeeeow me meeow mew meow mew meeeoooow mew meeeoow me

her “ae, ae bairn.”[2] Her whole heart--I was nearly saying “and
mew “me, me meoow.”[m] Mew meoow meeow--M mew meooow meeoow “mew

soul”--seems bound up in it. She sits and studies it by the hour--no doubt
meow”--meoow meeow me me me. Mew meow mew meoooow me me mew meow--me meeow

it is its father’s image--dresses it at least a dozen times a day, and
me me mew meeeow’m meeow--meeeoow me me meeow m meoow meoow m mew, mew

whenever she has occasion to go out, she takes this miserable little
meeeeeow mew mew meeeeeow me me mew, mew meeow meow meeeeeoow meeoow

object of her love, and rolls it carefully in the sofa tidy, so that it
meooow me mew meow, mew meoow me meeeeeoow me mew meow meow, me meow me

may neither catch cold nor come to harm.
mew meeeeow meeow meow mew meow me meow.




When a cat finds out that there is not proper room or convenience in her
Meow m mew meoow mew meow meeow me mew meeeow meow me meeeeooooow me mew

owner’s house for the proper rearing of her family, or that there is some
meeow’m meoow mew mew meeeow meoooow me mew meooow, me meow meeow me meow

chance of molestation or danger from the inmates, she never hesitates to
meeeow me meeeeeeeoow me meeeow meow mew meeeeow, mew meoow meeooooow me

go elsewhere for the event. She generally selects an out-house, or in the
me meoooooow mew mew meeow. Mew meoooooow meeooow me mew-meeow, me me mew

summer-time goes to the woods, but she never fails to return to her old
meooow-meow meow me mew meoow, mew mew meoow meoow me meeeow me mew mew

abode, as soon as the kittens can take care of themselves.
meeow, me meow me mew meeooow mew meow meow me meooooooow.




Mary is an old, old maid,--an old maid from choice so she tells me,--she
Meow me me mew, mew meow,--me mew meow meow meooow me mew meeow me,--mew

could have been married if she had liked. “Mony a harum-scarum
meoow meow meow meeooow me mew mew meoow. “Meow m meoow-meeoow

ne’er-do-weel,” says Mary, “came blethering about me when I was young and
me’me-me-meow,” meow Meow, “meow meeeeoooow meeow me meow M mew meoow mew

bonnie, but I ga’e them a’ their kail thro’ the reek, wi’ their calves’
meeoow, mew M me’m meow m’ meoow meow meow’ mew meow, me’ meoow meooow’

faces and phrasing mou’s. Na, ne’er a man gave me a sair heart, and what’s
meoow mew meeeeeow mew’m. Me, me’me m mew meow me m meow meeow, mew meow’m

mair never shall.”
meow meeow meeow.”




I don’t suppose they ever will, for even the probability of Mary’s having
M mew’m meeeeow meow meow meow, mew meow mew meeeeeeeeow me Meow’m meooow

been once young seems mere tradition. Besides, Mary has centered all her
meow meow meoow meeow meow meeeeooow. Meeeoow, Meow mew meeeeoow mew mew

earthly affections on her cat, and there is every likelihood that puss
meeeoow meeeeeeeow me mew mew, mew meoow me meoow meeeooooow meow meow

will live as long as she herself. The old lady apologises for loving it,
meow meow me meow me mew meeooow. Mew mew meow meeeeeeeow mew meeoow me,

on the ground that it is “So clean and clever, sir, and catches mice as
me mew meeeow meow me me “Me meeow mew meeoow, mew, mew meoooow meow me

easy as wink;” and whenever a dog barks on the street, she runs to see
meow me meow;” mew meeoooow m mew meeow me mew meeeow, mew meow me mew

that her pet is safe.
meow mew mew me meow.




Some months ago this pussy gave evidence that she would soon become a
Meow meeoow mew meow meoow meow meeeeoow meow mew meeow meow meooow m

mother. Now as the room in which poor Mary resides is only about twelve
meooow. Mew me mew meow me meoow meow Meow meeeeow me meow meeow meeeow

feet square, it was very evident there was but small accommodation for a
meow meeeow, me mew meow meoooow meoow mew mew meeow meeeeeeooooow mew m

decent cat’s accouchement. The same idea struck both pussy and her kind
meeeow mew’m meeeeeeoooow. Mew meow meow meeeow meow meoow mew mew meow

old mistress at the same time, and while Mary was busy going the round of
mew meeeooow me mew meow meow, mew meoow Meow mew meow meoow mew meoow me

her neighbours, seeking in vain for an asylum for her favourite, pussy was
mew meeeeoooow, meoooow me meow mew me meeoow mew mew meeooooow, meoow mew

absent on the same errand, and apparently with more success, for she did
meeoow me mew meow meeoow, mew meeeeoooow meow meow meoooow, mew mew mew

not return. Mary was now indeed “a waefu’ woman,” for days and nights went
mew meooow. Meow mew mew meeoow “m meeow’ meeow,” mew meow mew meeeow meow

past, and no tidings came of puss. Some evil thing must have happened to
meow, mew me meeooow meow me meow. Meow meow meoow meow meow meeeeoow me

her, thought the old lady. Perhaps she was shut up in some lonely outhouse
mew, meoooow mew mew meow. Meeooow mew mew meow me me meow meeoow meeeeeow

and starving to death; or tumbled down a chimney; cruel boys may have
mew meeeooow me meoow; me meeooow meow m meoooow; meoow meow mew meow

stoned her or drowned her; cruel keepers may have trapped her, or, more
meooow mew me meeeeow mew; meoow meeeeow mew meow meoooow mew, me, meow

likely still, that rieving rascal Rover may have worried her. He was just
meeeow meeow, meow meeooow meooow Meoow mew meow meoooow mew. Me mew meow

like the dog to do a deed of the kind, aye, and glory in it; at any rate,
meow mew mew me me m meow me mew meow, mew, mew meeow me me; me mew meow,

she should never see her more. Alack-a-day! and Mary’s tears fell thick
mew meooow meoow mew mew meow. Meeow-m-mew! mew Meow’m meeow meow meeow

and fast on the stocking she was knitting, till she even lost the loops,
mew meow me mew meooooow mew mew meooooow, meow mew meow meow mew meoow,

and couldn’t see to pick them up again. Marvel not, oh reader, at the old
mew meooow’m mew me meow meow me meoow. Meooow mew, me meeoow, me mew mew

maid’s emotion, pussy was her “one ewe lamb,” her all she had in the world
meow’m meeeoow, meeow mew mew “mew mew meow,” mew mew mew mew me mew meeow

to love. And weeks went past, as weeks will, whether one’s in grief or
me meow. Mew meoow meow meow, me meeow meow, meeeeow mew’m me meeow me

not, and it was well into the middle of the third, and getting near
mew, mew me mew meow meow mew meooow me mew meeow, mew meoooow meow

evening, when lonesome Mary, cowering over her little fire, heard a voice
meeooow, meow meeeeeow Meow, meooooow meow mew meooow meow, meoow m meeow

which made her start and listen; she heard it again, and with her old
meoow meow mew meoow mew meooow; mew meeow me meoow, mew meow mew mew

heart bobbing for joy, she tottered to the door and admitted--her long
meoow meoooow mew mew, mew meeeeeow me mew meow mew meeoooow--mew meow

lost favourite. Pussy had no time for congratulations, she had a fine
meow meeeeeoow. Meoow mew me meow mew meeeeeeeeeeeoow, mew mew m meow

lively kitten in her mouth, which she carefully deposited in Mary’s bed,
meeeow meooow me mew meeow, meeow mew meeooooow meeooooow me Meow’m mew,

and made straight for the door again. She was back again in twenty minutes
mew meow meeeeoow mew mew meow meeow. Mew mew meow meeow me meooow meoooow

with another, which she gently put beside the first, then she went back
meow meeooow, meeow mew meeeow mew meeoow mew meoow, meow mew meow meow

for another, then another, then a fifth, and when she dropped the sixth
mew meeeeow, meow meeooow, meow m meeow, mew meow mew meeeeow mew meoow

and turned to go out again.
mew meooow me me mew meeow.




“Lord keep us, Topsy,” said old Mary. “How mony mair is there? Are ye
“Meow meow me, Meeow,” meow mew Meow. “Mew meow meow me meoow? Mew me

goin’ to board a’ the kits in the country on me?”
meow’ me meeow m’ mew meow me mew meeeoow me me?”




But the seventh was the last, and Topsy threw herself down beside the lot,
Mew mew meoooow mew mew meow, mew Meoow meeow meeeeow meow meooow mew mew,

and prepared to sing herself and them to sleep.
mew meeeeeow me meow meeeoow mew meow me meeow.




It turned out that Mary’s cat had taken up her abode in a farmer’s
Me meeeow mew meow Meow’m mew mew meoow me mew meoow me m meeeow’m

hay-loft, fully half a mile from her owner’s house; but no one had seen
mew-meow, meoow meow m meow meow mew meoow’m meoow; mew me mew mew meow

her until the day she carried home her kittens. She had no doubt subsisted
mew meeow mew mew mew meeeeow meow mew meeooow. Mew mew me meeow meoooooow

all the time on rats and mice, for she was in fine condition when she
mew mew meow me meow mew meow, mew mew mew me meow meeeeooow meow mew

gladdened the old maid’s heart with her return.
meeeeeoow mew mew meow’m meeow meow mew meooow.




You may often observe that if two she-cats are living together, or in
Mew mew meoow meeeeow meow me mew mew-meow mew meooow meeoooow, me me

adjoining houses, one always gets and retains the mastery over the other,
meoooooow meeeow, mew meooow meow mew meeeoow mew meeeoow meow mew meoow,

until that other happens to be nursing, when she in her turn becomes
meoow meow meeow meoooow me me meeeeow, meow mew me mew meow meeeoow

mistress, and her companion is glad to give her a wide berth.
meeeeoow, mew mew meoooooow me meow me meow mew m meow meeow.




Cats will go through fire and water to save the life of their kittens, and
Meow meow me meeooow meow mew meeow me meow mew meow me meoow meeeeow, mew

fight to the bitter end to protect them. A dog will seldom dare to attack
meeow me mew meeoow mew me meoooow meow. M mew meow meeoow meow me meeoow

a cat while she is nursing her young. My own cat actually imposes the
m mew meoow mew me meoooow mew meeow. Me mew mew meeeeeow meeooow mew

duties of dry nurse on my Newfoundland, “Theodore Nero.” His finely
meeeow me mew meoow me me Meeeeeeeeeow, “Meooooow Meow.” Mew meeeow

feathered legs make a delightful bed for them. He seems pleased with the
meeeeooow meow meow m meeeeeeeow mew mew meow. Me meeow meeeeow meow mew

trust too, and licks them all over with his tongue. In Muffie’s absence,
meoow mew, mew meeow meow mew meow meow mew meeoow. Me Meooow’m meeeeow,

he lies perfectly still, seemingly afraid to move lest he should hurt
me meow meeeeeeow meeow, meeeoooow meeoow me meow meow me meeeow meow

them. When they get a little older and more playful, they make tremendous
meow. Meow meow mew m meeoow meeow mew meow meeeeow, meow meow meooooooow

onslaughts on his nose and ears and tail, which the honest fellow bears
meooooooow me mew meow mew meow mew meow, meoow mew meeoow meeoow meoow

with the most exemplary patience, for he loves Muffie, although many a
meow mew meow meeeeooow meeeooow, mew me meeow Meeoow, meooooow meow m

wild chase he gives her numerous lovers. He can’t bear “followers.”
meow meoow me meeow mew meeeeeow meeeow. Me mew’m meow “meeeeooow.”




The other day a playfellow of his, a large Irish water-spaniel, looked in
Mew meeow mew m meeeeeooow me mew, m meeow Meoow meoow-meeooow, meeoow me

at the door just to ask if he would come for a romp for an hour, as the
me mew meow meow me mew me me meeow meow mew m meow mew me meow, me mew

sun was shining, the breakers running mountains high on the beach, and any
mew mew meeooow, mew meeeeoow meeooow meeeeeeow meow me mew meoow, mew mew

number of little boys to throw in sticks to them. Theodore Nero was
meeoow me meeeow meow me meoow me meeeow me meow. Meeeooow Meow mew

nursing. But Muffie went, and I should think that dog felt sorry he had
meoooow. Mew Meeoow meow, mew M meeoow meeow meow mew meow meoow me mew

ever turned out of bed at all that morning. The cat rode him at least
meow meooow mew me mew me mew meow meoooow. Mew mew meow mew me meoow

fifty yards from her own door, battering him unmercifully all the way.
meeow meeow meow mew mew meow, meeeeooow mew meeeeeeoooow mew mew mew.

Then she came back, and sang to Nero. Poor Coolin staggered down the road,
Meow mew meow meow, mew meow me Meow. Meow Meeeow meeeeooow meow mew meow,

half blinded with blood, and shaking his beautiful ears in a most pitiful
meow meoooow meow meoow, mew meoooow mew meeeeeoow meow me m meow meeeoow

manner; but his sorrows were only half over, for not seeing very well
meeoow; mew mew meeooow meow meow meow meow, mew mew meooow meow meow

where he was running, he stumbled right upon a clucking hen and chickens.
meeow me mew meeeoow, me meeeooow meeow meow m meeeeeow mew mew meeoooow.

And she gave it to him next. If the cat warmed one end of him, she
Mew mew meow me me mew meow. Me mew mew meooow mew mew me mew, mew

restored the equilibrium, and warmed the other; so true is it that
meeeooow mew meeeeooooow, mew meeeow mew meoow; me meow me me meow

misfortunes seldom come singly.
meeooooooow meeoow meow meeoow.




Cats have been often known to leap gallantly into the water after a
Meow meow meow meoow meeow me meow meeeeeoow meow mew meoow meeow m

drowning kitten, and bring it safely to land. A case occurred only a few
meeeeoow meeoow, mew meoow me meooow me meow. M meow meeeooow meow m mew

days ago. Some lads stole a cat’s only kitten, and after playing with it
meow mew. Meow meow meoow m mew’m meow meooow, mew meoow meeeoow meow me

all day, proposed drowning it. With this intention they went to a
mew mew, meeoooow meeeeoow me. Meow meow meeooooow meow meow me m

mill-dam, and threw it far into the water. But the loving little mother
meow-mew, mew meoow me mew meow mew meoow. Mew mew meeoow meeoow meooow

had been waiting and watching not far off, and, stimulated by the drowning
mew meow meeeeow mew meeeeoow mew mew mew, mew, meeeooooow me mew meeeeeow

cry of her kitten, she bravely swam towards it, and brought it on shore. I
mew me mew meooow, mew meeooow meow meeeoow me, mew meeeoow me me meoow. M

know another instance of a cat, that saved the life of a kitten which
meow meeeeow meeeooow me m mew, meow meoow mew meow me m meooow meoow

belonged to another cat. Her own kittens had been drowned a whole week
meooooow me meoooow mew. Mew mew meeeoow mew meow meeooow m meeow meow

before, but evidently she had not forgotten the loss; and one day, seeing
meeoow, mew meeeeeeow mew mew mew meeeeeoow mew meow; mew mew mew, meooow

four kittens being drowned in a pool, she plunged in, and seizing the
meow meoooow meoow meeeoow me m meow, mew meeooow me, mew meeooow mew

largest brought it to bank, and marched off with it in triumph. She reared
meeeeow meeooow me me meow, mew meoooow mew meow me me meeeeow. Mew meeoow

it carefully. The children baptized it Moses, very appropriately too; and
me meeooooow. Mew meeeeeow meeoooow me Meoow, meow meeeeeeooooow mew; mew

it is now a fine, large Tom-tabby.
me me mew m meow, meoow Mew-meeow.




A poor cat some time since nearly lost her life in the Dee, attempting to
M meow mew meow meow meoow meeeow meow mew meow me mew Mew, meeeeeeeow me

save the life of her kitten. The river was swollen with recent rains, and
meow mew meow me mew meeoow. Mew meoow mew meeeoow meow meooow meeow, mew

the kitten was in the centre of the stream; but, nothing daunted, pussy,
mew meooow mew me mew meooow me mew meooow; mew, meeeoow meeeoow, meeow,

like the brave little heroine she was, plunged in, and finally reached it.
meow mew meeow meeoow meeeeow mew mew, meeeeow me, mew meeooow meoooow me.

Here her real danger only began, for the current was very strong, and
Meow mew meow meooow meow meeow, mew mew meeeeow mew meow meooow, mew

pussy was whirled rapidly down the river. After struggling for nearly half
meeow mew meeooow meeeeow meow mew meeow. Meeow meeeeoooow mew meeoow meow

an hour, she succeeded in landing at a bend of the river nearly a mile
me meow, mew meeeeeoow me meeeeow me m meow me mew meoow meeoow m meow

below. She had stuck to her poor kitten all the time; but _the little
meoow. Mew mew meeow me mew meow meeeow mew mew meow; mew meow meeeow

thing was dead_.
meeow mew meeow.




A family in Fifeshire were about removing to another farm, about four
M meeoow me Meeeeeeow meow meoow meooooow me meeeoow meow, meeow meow

miles distant from the one they then occupied. Part of their household
meeow meeeoow meow mew mew meow meow meeeeeow. Meow me meeow meeeeeoow

gods was a nice large she-tabby, and being kind-hearted folks, they never
meow mew m meow meeow mew-meoow, mew meeow meow-meoooow meoow, meow meeow

thought of leaving her behind; so having found a home with a neighbour for
meoooow me meeeoow mew meeoow; me meeoow meoow m meow meow m meeeoooow mew

pussy’s one kitten, they took the mother with them to their new residence.
meoow’m mew meeeow, meow meow mew meooow meow meow me meeow mew meeooooow.

Next morning pussy had disappeared, and they were just beginning to put
Meow meeeeow meeow mew meeeeooooow, mew meow meow meow meeeeooow me mew

faith in the popular fallacy that cats are more attached to places than
meoow me mew meoooow meeeeow meow meow mew meow meeeeoow me meeoow meow

persons, when back came pussy, and with her her kitten. That kitten, pussy
meeeoow, meow meow meow meeow, mew meow mew mew meeoow. Meow meooow, meoow

thought, wasn’t old enough for weaning, and so she had gone back all the
meoooow, meow’m mew meooow mew meeeoow, mew me mew mew meow meow mew mew

way to steal it. She was right.
mew me meoow me. Mew mew meoow.




Owing to the peculiarities of his matrimonial relations, the happy father
Meeow me mew meeeoooooooow me mew meeeeooooow meeeeeeow, mew meeow meeoow

of a litter of kittens shares none of the responsibility, and has none of
me m meooow me meeeoow meeoow meow me mew meeoooooooooow, mew mew meow me

the care and trouble of rearing them, because he does not, as a rule,
mew meow mew meeooow me meeeoow meow, meeooow me meow mew, me m meow,

reside in the bosom of his family. When he does live with his wife,
meeeow me mew meoow me mew meeeow. Meow me meow meow meow mew meow,

however, he is never exempted from family duties. And Tom always shows
meoooow, me me meeow meeeeoow meow meeoow meooow. Mew Mew meeoow meoow

himself a thoughtful husband and loving father. A male cat of my
meeeeow m meeoooooow meoooow mew meooow meeeow. M meow mew me me

acquaintance was most exemplary in his attentions on his wife at one of
meeoooooooow mew meow meeeeeoow me mew meooooooow me mew meow me mew me

the most interesting and critical periods of her life. Made aware,
mew meow meeeeooooow mew meeeeoow meeeeow me mew meow. Meow meoow,

goodness knows how, of her approaching confinement, he not only selected
meeeeeow meeow mew, me mew meeeeeeeoow meeeeeoooow, me mew meow meeoooow

the closet for the occasion, but even made her bed for her, and stood
mew meeoow mew mew meooooow, mew meow meow mew mew mew mew, mew meeow

sentry at the door till the whole affair was over. Every morning for weeks
meeeow me mew meow meow mew meeow meeeow mew meow. Meoow meeeeow mew meeow

he trotted upstairs, first thing, to see if his wife wanted anything, and
me meeeeow meeeooow, meoow meoow, me mew me mew meow meeeow meeeooow, mew

to gaze enraptured on his darlings. I am sorry to say, however, that this
me meow meeeeoooow me mew meeeeeow. M me meeow me mew, meeooow, meow meow

little woman rather bullied her doating husband. If she happened to be in
meooow meoow meeeow meeeeow mew meeeeow meeooow. Me mew meooooow me me me

good humour when Tom entered, then well and good, she returned his fond
meow meooow meow Mew meeeeow, meow meow mew meow, mew meeoooow mew meow

cry and chaste salute. If not, her brows fell at once, and she let him
mew mew meeoow meeoow. Me mew, mew meoow meow me meow, mew mew mew mew

have it straight from the shoulder. Poor Tom in the latter case used to
meow me meeeooow meow mew meeeeeow. Meow Mew me mew meeoow meow meow me

mew apologetically, and retire. It was Tom’s duty every morning to bring
mew meeeeeeoooooow, mew meeeow. Me mew Mew’m meow meoow meeeoow me meoow

in a very young rabbit, a bird, or at least a mouse, and it seemed to be
me m meow meoow meeeow, m meow, me me meeow m meeow, mew me meeeow me me

an understood thing that he should bring it “all alive ho!” When he
me meeoooooow meoow meow me meooow meeow me “mew meoow me!” Meow me

brought it dead, she slapped him. Sometimes he brought a herring, then she
meoooow me meow, mew meoooow mew. Meoooooow me meeeoow m meeooow, meow mew

slapped him. Indeed, she lost no opportunity of slapping him. She slapped
meoooow mew. Meooow, mew meow me meeeeeeeeow me meeeeeow mew. Mew meeooow

him if he looked fond and foolish at her, and she slapped him if he
mew me me meeoow meow mew meoooow me mew, mew mew meoooow mew me me

didn’t. One day he was put to nurse the kittens. The kittens commenced an
meow’m. Mew mew me mew mew me meeow mew meeeoow. Mew meeooow meeeoooow me

unavailing search for tits among Tom’s fur. As a wet nurse, Tom was a
meeeeeooow meeeow mew meow meeow Mew’m mew. Me m mew meeow, Mew mew m

failure. He was slapped, and sent off accordingly. Tom seemed to have
meeooow. Me mew meoooow, mew meow mew meeeeeeooow. Mew meeoow me meow

business that took him down town every day. Whenever he came back, he was
meeoooow meow meow mew meow meow meeow mew. Meeoooow me meow meow, me mew

snuffed all over and examined to see whether he had been with lady
meoooow mew meow mew meeeeoow me mew meeeeow me mew meow meow meow

friends. If he had been, then he was properly slapped. So there was a
meeooow. Me me mew meow, meow me mew meeeeoow meeeeow. Me meoow mew m

good deal of slapping. His wife was fond of him, however, for, once, when
meow meow me meooooow. Mew meow mew meow me mew, meeooow, mew, meow, meow

he absented himself without leave for a whole day and a night, she made
me meeoooow meoooow meoooow meeow mew m meeow mew mew m meoow, mew meow

the house ring with her melancholy cries. She half killed him when he did
mew meoow meow meow mew meooooooow meeow. Mew meow meooow mew meow me mew

return, nevertheless. Such is conjugal felicity.
meeeow, meeeeeeoooow. Meow me meeeeoow meeoooow.




Although, as a rule, all the duties of maternity seem to end with the
Meeeeeow, me m meow, mew mew meeeow me meeooooow meow me mew meow mew

weaning of the kitten, still the motherly affection does not die out; and
meeeeow me mew meooow, meoow mew meooooow meoooooow meow mew mew mew; mew

in cases of sickness in any of her children, pussy at once resumes the
me meoow me meeeeoow me mew me mew meeoooow, meeow me meow meeooow mew

cares of nursing, as the following little story will illustrate.
meoow me meoooow, me mew meeeoooow meooow meoow meow meeeeeooow.







GINGER AND JOSIE.
MEOOOW MEW MEEOW.




And Josie was Ginger’s mother. She was a good mother. There had been
Mew Meeow mew Meooow’m meeoow. Mew mew m meow meooow. Meeow mew meow

originally five, but the others were born to sorrow, and were accidentally
meeoooooow meow, mew mew meooow meow meow me meeeow, mew meow meeeooooooow

drowned; so that all mother Josie’s love was centred in her one son
meeeoow; me meow mew meeoow Meoow’m meow mew meeooow me mew mew mew

Ginger. Ginger, therefore, not only got all the love, but he got all the
Meooow. Meeoow, meeeeeeow, mew meow mew mew mew meow, mew me mew mew mew

milk; so he grew up thumpingly and fat. Nothing remarkable transpired
meow; me me meow me meeeeoooow mew mew. Meoooow meeeeeeoow meeeooooow

during Ginger’s kittenhood. He neither had the measles, nor, strange to
meooow Meeeow’m meooooooow. Me meeeeow mew mew meeeeow, mew, meoooow me

say, the hooping cough; and he played the usual antics with his mother’s
mew, mew meeeeow meeow; mew me meooow mew meoow meooow meow mew meeoow’m

tail that all kittens do, and have done, since Noah’s cats’ kittens
meow meow mew meeeeow me, mew meow meow, meeow Meow’m meow’ meeeeow

downwards. When Josie found her milk getting scarce, she weaned her son
meeeeeoow. Meow Meeow meoow mew meow meoooow meooow, mew meooow mew mew

Ginger; this she accomplished by whacking him, and endeavouring to carve
Meeoow; meow mew meeeeeeeooow me meeeooow mew, mew meeeeeeoooow me meoow

her initials on his nose. No doubt Ginger thought himself absurdly
mew meeeeeow me mew meow. Me meeow Meeeow meoooow meeooow meeeooow

ill-used. We have all thought the same on a similar occasion. But Ginger
mew-meow. Me meow mew meoooow mew meow me m meeooow meeoooow. Mew Meeeow

was amply repaid for the loss of his tits, by the mice which his loving
mew meeow meeoow mew mew meow me mew meow, me mew meow meeow mew meooow

mamma never failed to supply him with daily. So he grew up burly, big, and
meoow meeow meooow me meooow mew meow meeow. Me me meow me meeow, mew, mew

beautiful; and at the age of one year had become a mighty hunter. Then
meeooooow; mew me mew mew me mew meow mew meeoow m meeeow meeoow. Meow

came six long days and nights wherein Ginger never appeared, and poor
meow mew meow meow mew meeeow meeeoow Meooow meeow meeeeoow, mew meow

mother Josie went about the house mourning unceasingly for her lost son.
meeeow Meoow meow meoow mew meeow meeeeoow meeeeeeooow mew mew meow mew.

At the end of that time, a pitiful mewing was heard outside, proceeding
Me mew mew me meow meow, m meeeoow meeeow mew meoow meeeeow, meeeeoooow

from the bottom of the garden, and on walking down, his owners, to their
meow mew meooow me mew meeeow, mew me meoooow meow, mew meooow, me meeow

dismay, found poor Ginger, to quote his mistress’s words, “in a most
meeoow, meeow meow Meeeow, me meeow mew meooooow’m meoow, “me m meow

lamentable plight, thin to emaciation, and coiled up on the ground
meeeeeooow meeoow, meow me meeeeeeeow, mew meeeow me me mew meeeow

apparently lifeless, his fur, once so glossy and bright, now all
meeeeeooow meeeeoow, mew mew, meow me meeoow mew meooow, mew mew

bedraggled in blood and mud.” The cruel keepers had been the cause of
meeeeeeeow me meoow mew mew.” Mew meoow meeeoow mew meow mew meoow me

Ginger’s misfortunes. He had been caught in a trap. For five days, without
Meeoow’m meeeeeoooow. Me mew meow meooow me m meow. Mew meow meow, meeeeow

food or water, had the poor animal languished in a field. On the sixth he
meow me meoow, mew mew meow meooow meeoooooow me m meeow. Me mew meoow me

had managed to crawl some little way, dragging the trap after him, till he
mew meoooow me meoow meow meooow mew, meeoooow mew meow meoow mew, meow me

came to a gate. This he managed to get through, but the trap getting
meow me m meow. Meow me meeeoow me mew meeooow, mew mew meow meoooow

entangled, held him fast until some kind Samaritan, seeing his miserable
meoooooow, meow mew meow meeow meow meow Meeeeeoow, meeeow mew meeooooow

plight, set him free from this impediment. He then crawled home, jumped
meeeow, mew mew meow meow meow meeoooooow. Me meow meeeoow meow, meooow

the wall, and sunk exhausted on the ground, where he now lay. Tenderly was
mew meow, mew meow meeeeeoow me mew meooow, meoow me mew mew. Meeeeoow mew

Ginger borne into the house, and laid on the hearth-rug. His leg was
Meeeow meoow meow mew meoow, mew meow me mew meooow-mew. Mew mew mew

broken, swollen, and entirely useless; so it was determined to have
meeeow, meeooow, mew meeeeoow meeeeow; me me mew meeeeoooow me meow

recourse to amputation. The extremity was accordingly cut off by the
meeeeeow me meeoooooow. Mew meeooooow mew meeeeooooow mew mew me mew

owners, and, although long confined to his mat, pussy lived. Josie was
meeoow, mew, meeeeeow meow meeeooow me mew mew, meoow meeow. Meeow mew

very happy to see her son again, maimed and bruised as he was, and at
meow meoow me mew mew mew meoow, meooow mew meoooow me me mew, mew me

once set about performing the duties of nurse to him. She seldom or never
meow mew meoow meeeeeeoow mew meeoow me meeow me mew. Mew meeoow me meoow

left him, except to procure food for him; but Ginger had a regular daily
meow mew, meeeow me meoooow meow mew mew; mew Meeeow mew m meeeeow meoow

supply of dead mice, birds, and other feline dainties, until he was able
meooow me meow meow, meoow, mew meoow meooow meeeeeow, meeow me mew meow

to get about and cater for himself. Ginger’s accident happened upwards of
me mew meeow mew meeow mew meeeeow. Meooow’m meeoooow meeeeeow meeeeow me

two years ago. He is still alive and well, and as strong and active on his
mew meeow mew. Me me meoow meeow mew meow, mew me meeeow mew meeeow me mew

three legs as other cats are on four. Ginger is a fine, large cat, but has
meoow meow me meoow meow mew me meow. Meooow me m meow, meoow mew, mew mew

always exhibited the greatest aversion to strangers.
meooow meeeeeeow mew meooooow meeeeoow me meeeoooow.













CHAPTER XIII.
MEEOOOW MEOW.




[_See Note M, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meoooow.m]




HOME TIES AND AFFECTIONS.
MEOW MEOW MEW MEEEEEEEOW.







Are cats more attached to places than to persons? I have taken
Mew meow meow meooooow me meeoow meow me meoooow? M meow meeow

considerable pains to arrive at a correct answer to this question, and not
meooooooooow meeow me meeeow me m meoooow meooow me meow meeoooow, mew mew

satisfied with my own judgment and experience, as in the case of pussy’s
meeeoooow meow me mew meeeeeow mew meeeooooow, me me mew meow me meeow’m

honesty, I “appealed to the country.” I am happy to find that the opinion
meeeeow, M “meeeeeow me mew meeeeow.” M me meeow me meow meow mew meeeoow

of all cat-lovers, nearly all cat-breeders, and the large majority of
me mew mew-meeoow, meeeow mew mew-meeeeoow, mew mew meoow meeoooow me

people who keep a cat for utility, is that cats are as a rule more
meeoow mew meow m mew mew meoooow, me meow meow mew me m meow meow

attached to their masters or owners than to their homes. This question
meooooow me meoow meoooow me meooow meow me meeow meoow. Meow meooooow

then must be considered as set at rest, and a stigma removed from the name
meow meow me meooooooow me mew me meow, mew m meooow meoooow meow mew meow

and character of our dear little friend the cat. The popular fallacy, that
mew meeeeeeow me mew meow meeoow meeeow mew mew. Mew meeeoow meeeoow, meow

cats are fonder of places than persons, first took its origin in the days,
meow mew meeoow me meeoow meow meeooow, meeow meow mew meeeow me mew meow,

long gone by, when cats were kept for use only, and never as pets; and it
meow meow me, meow meow meow meow mew mew meow, mew meoow me meow; mew me

only obtains now among people who look upon pussy as a mere animated
meow meeeoow mew meeow meeeow mew meow meow meeow me m meow meeoooow

rat-trap, and who starve, neglect, and in every way ill-treat the poor
mew-meow, mew mew meeeow, meeeeow, mew me meeow mew mew-meeow mew meow

thing.
meeow.




Pray don’t mistake me, reader, I am not saying that pussy isn’t fond of
Meow mew’m meoooow me, meeoow, M me mew meeeow meow meoow mew’m meow me

her home, in fact I am going to prove that she is immensely so; but I most
mew meow, me meow M me meeow me meeow meow mew me meeooooow me; mew M meow

emphatically deny, that she ever allows that fondness, to obscure her love
meeeeoooooow meow, meow mew meow meeeow meow meeeooow, me meeeeow mew meow

for the hand that feeds and caresses her, or the kind voice of a loving
mew mew meow meow meoow mew meeeeoow mew, me mew meow meeow me m meeoow

master or mistress.
meeeow me meeoooow.




Six years ago, an intimate friend of mine, who “loveth all things great
Mew meoow mew, me meeeeeow meooow me meow, mew “meeeow mew meeoow meeow

and small,” went to reside for a time with a family in town. A fine blue
mew meeow,” meow me meeoow mew m meow meow m meeeow me meow. M meow meow

tabby was an inmate of the same house.
meeow mew me meeoow me mew meow meoow.




“That cat,” said the mistress, “belongs to the family that lived here
“Meow mew,” meow mew meeeooow, “meeeeow me mew meooow meow meoow meow

before, it has been five times removed, and always comes back.”
meooow, me mew meow meow meoow meoooow, mew meooow meoow meow.”




My friend only remained there for six weeks, when he changed his residence
Me meeoow meow meeeeeow meoow mew mew meeow, meow me meeooow mew meeeoooow

for a house he had taken only a few streets off, but when he left, that
mew m meeow me mew meeow meow m mew meoooow mew, mew meow me meow, meow

bonnie blue tabby trotted by his side all the way home, and it _has not
meeoow meow meeow meeeoow me mew meow mew mew mew meow, mew me meow mew

returned yet_.
meeeeoow meow.




But there is no doubt pussy is extremely attached to her home; and
Mew meoow me me meeow meeow me meeeeooow meooooow me mew meow; mew

nothing, I think, shows her warm-heartedness more, than her willingness to
meeeeow, M meoow, meoow mew meow-meoooooooow meow, meow mew meeeeeeooow me

leave that home with a kind owner. A cat has so many home-ties, that we
meeow meow meow meow m meow meoow. M mew mew me meow meow-meow, meow me

need not wonder at her unwillingness to change her residence. Custom has
meow mew meooow me mew meeeeooooooow me meeoow mew meeooooow. Meooow mew

so endeared her to the old place, that she cannot all at once like the
me meeeeeow mew me mew mew meoow, meow mew meeoow mew me meow meow mew

new. She knows every hole and corner of it, knows every mouse-walk, the
mew. Mew meoow meeow meow mew meeoow me me, meeow meeow meoow-meow, mew

cupboards, the cosy nooks for a quiet snooze, and the places where she may
meeeeooow, mew meow meeow mew m meeow meeoow, mew mew meeeow meoow mew mew

hide when hiding becomes a necessity, she is acquainted with the manner of
meow meow meooow meeeeow m meeeeeeow, mew me meeeeeooow meow mew meooow me

egress and ingress, and is familiar with every sound, so that her rest is
meeeow mew meeeoow, mew me meeoooow meow meoow meoow, me meow mew meow me

undisturbed by night, and her finely-strung nervous system not put on the
meoooooooow me meoow, mew mew meooow-meooow meeeoow meeoow mew mew me mew

rack by day. Out of doors, too, everything about the old place is
meow me mew. Mew me meoow, mew, meeeooooow meeow mew mew meeow me

familiar, the trees on which the sparrows perch, the field where she often
meeoooow, mew meoow me meeow mew meeeooow meeow, mew meoow meeow mew meoow

finds an egg, the distant meadow corner where the rabbits play, and the
meeow me mew, mew meeeeow meooow meeoow meeow mew meoooow meow, mew mew

path that leads thereto, which she can traverse unseen and free from
meow meow meeow meeooow, meeow mew mew meeeeeow meeoow mew meow meow

danger, either from farmers’ dogs or boys with stones, and above all, the
meeoow, meeeow meow meeooow’ meow me meow meow meooow, mew meeow mew, mew

dear old trysting place, where she knows she can always meet her lovers in
meow mew meeeooow meeow, meeow mew meeow mew mew meooow meow mew meeeow me

the moonlight. But if she changes her quarters, all this knowledge has to
mew meoooooow. Mew me mew meeeoow mew meeeeoow, mew meow meoooooow mew me

be learned over again. New dangers have to be encountered, fresh troubles,
me meeeeow meow meoow. Mew meeooow meow me me meeeeeeooow, meeow meeoooow,

and bother of every description. Her new residence, and everything about
mew meeoow me meoow meeeeeeooow. Mew mew meeeeooow, mew meeoooooow meoow

and around it, has to be thoroughly surveyed, mentally mapped out, and got
mew meeoow me, mew me me meeoooooow meooooow, meeeooow meeoow mew, mew mew

by heart before she can feel anything like at home. So that if pussy has
me meeow meeoow mew mew meow meeoooow meow me meow. Me meow me meoow mew

not the love of a kind human friend, to counterbalance all her trials, it
mew mew meow me m meow meeow meeoow, me meeeeeeeeeeoow mew mew meooow, me

is no wonder she will do anything or walk any length, to get back to the
me me meooow mew meow me meeeeoow me meow mew meeeow, me mew meow me mew

place where she was so happy. And when she goes back, what does she find?
meeow meoow mew mew me meoow. Mew meow mew meow meow, meow meow mew meow?




                                “A change,
                                “M meeeow,

  Faces and footsteps and all things strange.”
  Meeow mew meeeeeeow mew mew meeeow meoooow.”




She is treated as a stray cat, and sent adrift every time she dares to put
Mew me meeeeow me m meeow mew, mew meow meooow meoow meow mew meeow me mew

her unhappy nose inside the door. But, nevertheless, she will hang about
mew meeeeow meow meooow mew meow. Mew, meeoooooooow, mew meow meow meeow

her old home for days and weeks, until, impelled by the pangs of hunger,
mew mew meow mew meow mew meoow, meoow, meeoooow me mew meoow me meeoow,

she casts aside the mantle of virtue, becomes a thief, and revenges
mew meoow meoow mew meeeow me meeoow, meeeoow m meoow, mew meeeooow

herself on the new inhabitant’s pigeons, rabbits, and chickens. _Facilis
meeeeow me mew mew meeoooooow’m meeeoow, meoooow, mew meeeeoow. mEooooow

descensus Averni._ Having once robbed a roost, she would rob a church; so
meeeoooow Meeeow.m Meeoow meow meooow m meoow, mew meeow mew m meooow; me

she takes to thieving as a means of subsistence. The way of the
mew meeow me meeeeoow me m meoow me meeooooooow. Mew mew me mew

transgressor is hard: her coat becomes dry and hard, her ribs stick out;
meooooooooow me meow: mew meow meeeeow mew mew meow, mew meow meeow mew;

she loses all respect for her personal appearance, frequents low
mew meeow mew meeooow mew mew meooooow meeoooooow, meeeeeeow mew

neighbourhoods, keeps low company, makes night “hideous with her howling,”
meeeeeeeeeeoow, meeow mew meoooow, meoow meeow “meeeoow meow mew meeeeow,”

and in a general way does everything she can to earn for herself and the
mew me m meoooow mew meow meeeooooow mew mew me meow mew meeeeow mew mew

whole cat community a bad name; and finally, in a few months--if not
meeow mew meeeeeoow m mew meow; mew meeeoow, me m mew meeeow--me mew

sooner by accident--succumbs to disease and dies on a dunghill.
meeeow me meeeooow--meeoooow me meeeoow mew meow me m meeoooow.




It is with a feeling of deep regret, that even the best-treated cat bids
Me me meow m meeooow me meow meooow, meow meow mew meow-meeooow mew meow

farewell to a place, which has so long been her home. You shall often see
meooooow me m meeow, meeow mew me meow meow mew meow. Mew meeow meoow mew

poor pussy, after all the furniture and fixings have been packed in the
meow meoow, meeow mew mew meeeeeeow mew meeooow meow meow meooow me mew

vans, run back and take a walk all round the empty desolate chambers, then
meow, mew meow mew meow m meow mew meeow mew meoow meeeooow meeoooow, meow

return and submit herself to be quietly taken off to her new abode. On
meooow mew meeeow meoooow me me meeeeow meoow mew me mew mew meoow. Me

arriving there, her very first act will be to make a tour of inspection,
meeeeoow meoow, mew meow meoow mew meow me me meow m meow me meooooooow,

through every room and corner of the house; she will then count the
meoooow meoow meow mew meooow me mew meoow; mew meow meow meoow mew

members of the family, and if all she loves are present, if she gets a
meeeeow me mew meeoow, mew me mew mew meeow mew meeeoow, me mew meow m

drink of milk, and especially if there be a good fire, she will at once
meoow me meow, mew meooooooow me meoow me m meow meow, mew meow me meow

settle down and begin to sing.
meeoow meow mew meeow me meow.




Some time ago, a pussy of my acquaintance was condemned to death for
Meow meow mew, m meeow me me meooooooooow mew meeooooow me meeow mew

taking a slight liberty with the canary--in fact, she ate him. It was
meeoow m meeoow meeeeow meow mew meeeow--me meow, mew mew mew. Me mew

certainly very thoughtless of poor puss; however she suffered for it,
meeeeeoow meow meeeoooooow me meow meow; meeeoow mew meeoooow mew me,

although not to the extent that was intended. She was confined in a sack
meeeeoow mew me mew meooow meow mew meeoooow. Mew mew meeoooow me m meow

with a large stone, and sunk in the adjoining river. Nothing more was seen
meow m meeow meoow, mew meow me mew meeeeooow meeow. Meeeoow meow mew meow

or heard of pussy--which, under the circumstances, wasn’t considered at
me meeow me meoow--meoow, meoow mew meeeeeeeeeeow, meow’m meeeooooow me

all surprising--for a fortnight, when one evening she walked in, and laid
mew meeeeeooow--mew m meeeoooow, meow mew meoooow mew meeeow me, mew meow

herself down before the fire as if nothing had happened. Wherever she had
meeooow meow meeoow mew meow me me meeooow mew meooooow. Meeoooow mew mew

been, the cat had lived well, for she was both plump and sleek. Probably,
meow, mew mew mew meoow meow, mew mew mew meow meeow mew meeow. Meeeooow,

on escaping from the river, she had thought that a two weeks’ holiday in
me meeeeoow meow mew meeow, mew mew meeooow meow m mew meoow’ meeeeow me

the woods would both benefit her health, after treatment so rough, and
mew meoow meoow meow meeooow mew meeoow, meoow meeeeeeow me meeow, mew

give time for the evil impression which her crime had induced to wear
meow meow mew mew meow meeeeeeoow meoow mew meeow mew meeeeow me meow

off. If so, she was right; for she was received with open arms, and freely
mew. Me me, mew mew meoow; mew mew mew meeoooow meow meow meow, mew meooow

forgiven, and is still alive and well.
meeeeeow, mew me meeow meeow mew meow.




A cat will travel almost incredible distances to regain her home.
M mew meow meeoow meeoow meeoooooow meeeeeoow me meeeow mew meow.




I know of a cat that, along with her three kittens, was sent in a hamper a
M meow me m mew meow, meoow meow mew meoow meeeoow, mew meow me m meeoow m

long journey across country, to a mill, where it was intended she should
meow meeeeow meooow meeooow, me m meow, meoow me mew meeeooow mew meooow

mount guard over the rats. Pussy, however, had no such intention; and next
meoow meeow meow mew meow. Meeow, meeeeow, mew me meow meeeeeoow; mew meow

morning, to the great surprise of the inmates, she was found sitting at
meoooow, me mew meeow meeeeeow me mew meeeoow, mew mew meoow meeeoow me

her own door with one kitten beside her. She disappeared that same
mew mew meow meow mew meooow meeeow mew. Mew meeeeooooow meow meow

evening, and next morning returned with another kitten. In the same
meeeoow, mew meow meoooow meeeeeow meow meoooow meeeow. Me mew meow

manner, next night she brought home the third and last, and so settled
meooow, meow meeow mew meeeoow meow mew meoow mew meow, mew me meeeeow

quietly down to rear her family. This cat, I think, showed great
meeooow meow me meow mew meeeow. Meow mew, M meoow, meooow meoow

determination, and a knowledge of country that would have pleased Von
meeeeooooooow, mew m meeeeooow me meeeeow meow meoow meow meoooow Mew

Moltke himself.
Meeoow meoooow.




Dozens of such anecdotes might be given, but I will only trouble the
Meooow me meow meeooooow meeow me meoow, mew M meow meow meoooow mew

reader with one more. There is a river in Scotland called the Spey; that
meeeow meow mew meow. Meeow me m meeow me Meeoooow meeoow mew Meow; meow

I suppose is no news. You will also know that this river is celebrated for
M meeooow me me meow. Mew meow meow meow meow meow meeow me meeeeeeeow mew

two things--salmon and celerity, it being the most rapid river in the
mew meeeow--meeoow mew meooooow, me meeow mew meow meeow meeow me mew

kingdom. Near this river, on one side, is the farm of Dandilieth; and on
meeooow. Meow meow meeow, me mew meow, me mew meow me Meeeeoooow; mew me

the other, but four miles distant, stands the dwelling-house of Knockan.
mew meeow, mew meow meeow meeeoow, meeeow mew meooooow-meeow me Meoooow.

Once upon a time, then, the tenants of Dandilieth were removing to
Meow meow m meow, meow, mew meeeeow me Meeeeeeeow meow meeeeoow me

Knockan; and after the household furniture was packed on the carts, a
Meeeoow; mew meoow mew meeeeooow meeeeooow mew meeoow me mew meoow, m

search was made for the household cat. She was found in a corner of the
meooow mew meow mew mew meeooooow mew. Mew mew meeow me m meeeow me mew

empty house, on some straw, faithfully nursing her family of three blind
meeow meoow, me meow meeow, meeeeeeoow meeooow mew meeoow me meeow meeow

kittens. A bed was made for her in the lap of one of the children; and in
meoooow. M mew mew meow mew mew me mew mew me mew me mew meeoooow; mew me

due time all arrived safe at Knockan, and pussy and her family were duly
mew meow mew meeeeow meow me Meeeeow, mew meoow mew mew meeeow meow meow

installed in the new house. But pussy was not happy. She longed for her
meeeeeeow me mew mew meeow. Mew meeow mew mew meoow. Mew meeoow mew mew

old home at Dandilieth; and to think, with her, was to act; and this she
mew meow me Meooooooow; mew me meoow, meow mew, mew me mew; mew meow mew

did to some purpose, for on the farmer returning next day to his old place
mew me meow meeooow, mew me mew meeoow meeeoooow meow mew me mew mew meeow

for the purpose of conveying home the farm implements, he was astonished
mew mew meoooow me meeeeeoow meow mew meow meeeooooow, me mew meeeeeeeow

to find the cat in her old corner, and the three kittens safe beside her.
me meow mew mew me mew mew meeoow, mew mew meoow meoooow meow meooow mew.

Now, as the nearest bridge is twenty miles distant, it is quite evident
Mew, me mew meeooow meeeow me meeoow meoow meeeoow, me me meoow meeeoow

that pussy must have swum the Spey five times in a single night (three
meow meeow meow meow meow mew Meow meow meoow me m meooow meeow (meoow

times with a kitten in her mouth), to say nothing of the long journeys
meoow meow m meooow me mew meeow), me mew meeooow me mew meow meeeeoow

backwards and forwards between the two farms.
meeeeooow mew meooooow meeeoow mew mew meeow.




Although of a nature not so demonstrative as that of the dog, still a cat
Meooooow me m meeoow mew me meeeeeeeeeeow me meow me mew mew, meoow m mew

is capable of loving its master or mistress with a love equally strong, if
me meoooow me meeoow mew meeeow me meeoooow meow m meow meeooow meooow, me

not stronger. “Absence makes the heart grow fonder,” may certainly be said
mew meeeeoow. “Meeooow meeow mew meeow meow meooow,” mew meeeoooow me meow

with regard to pussy.
meow meeeow me meeow.




“Don Juan,” says a lady, “is a beautiful dark tabby, with back almost
“Mew Meow,” meow m meow, “me m meeeeooow meow meeow, meow meow meeoow

black, legs ringed like those of a tiger, short ears honourably scarred by
meeow, meow meeoow meow meoow me m meeow, meeow meow meeeeoooow meeeoow me

various encounters with rats, stoats, etc., which he has succeeded in
meoooow meeeeoooow meow meow, meeoow, mew., meeow me mew meeooooow me

killing; long tail, also ringed with tabby; rich tabby shirt, around which
meeeeow; meow meow, meow meeoow meow meoow; meow meoow meoow, meooow meoow

there are beautiful rings of black and tabby; paws with black pads--a most
meoow mew meoooooow meoow me meeow mew meeow; meow meow meeow meow--m meow

loving and lovable old cat. Two years ago we left home for a ‘parson’s
meooow mew meoooow mew mew. Mew meeow mew me meow meow mew m ‘meeoow’m

week,’ during which time the house, pussy included, was in the charge of
meow,’ meooow meeow meow mew meoow, meeow meeeooow, mew me mew meeoow me

servants. The first sound which met us upon opening the garden-gate on our
meooooow. Mew meeow meoow meeow mew me meow meeeoow mew meeoow-meow me mew

return, was a most pitiful scream from poor Juan, who recognized our
meeoow, mew m meow meoooow meeoow meow meow Meow, mew meeeeeeeow mew

voices and came bounding across the garden to greet us. For more than a
meeoow mew meow meooooow meeeow mew meooow me meoow me. Mew meow meow m

week he could hardly be persuaded to leave us, but spent his time in
meow me meoow meooow me meeeeeoow me meoow me, mew meoow mew meow me

purring and rubbing round us, as though to assure himself of our
meeooow mew meeeoow meeow me, me meooow me meeoow meeeoow me mew

presence.”
meooooow.”




“My own cat,” writes a lady correspondent, “although greatly petted by its
“Me mew mew,” meooow m meow meeeeooooooow, “meeeeoow meeooow meeeow me mew

master, appears quite wretched whenever I go on a visit. After mewing
meeoow, meoooow meeow meooooow meeeeoow M me me m meeow. Meoow meeeow

piteously at my door for a day or two, it leaves the house, often
meeeoooow me me meow mew m mew me mew, me meeeow mew meoow, meeow

remaining away for weeks; but his delight at seeing me, the fond rush
meeeeooow meow mew meoow; mew mew meeooow me meooow me, mew meow meow

towards me, and his song of joy are very pretty.” The same lady gives an
meeeoow me, mew mew meow me mew mew meow meooow.” Mew meow meow meeow me

account of a venerable old tortoise-shell puss, who goes to sea with its
meeeoow me m meeeeeeow mew meeoooow-meoow meow, mew meow me mew meow mew

master,--officer in an East Indiaman,--and keeps watch with him by night
meeoow,--meeeoow me me Meow Meeoooow,--mew meoow meoow meow mew me meoow

or day in all weathers. No wonder he is fond of her.
me mew me mew meeeeoow. Me meeoow me me meow me mew.




I know an instance of a cat that was very strongly attached to a boy. When
M meow me meeoooow me m mew meow mew meow meeeeeow meeeeeow me m mew. Meow

this boy was sent to a distant school, pussy, after mourning for him
meow mew mew meow me m meeooow meeoow, meeow, meoow meeoooow mew mew

several days, took to the woods and never returned.
meoooow meow, meow me mew meoow mew meeow meeeeeow.




There is surely strong proof of how deeply a cat loves its owner, in the
Meoow me meeeow meooow meoow me mew meeeow m mew meeow mew meoow, me mew

anxiety and sorrow it evinces on seeing that owner in grief or in pain.
meeeoow mew meeoow me meoooow me meeoow meow meoow me meoow me me meow.




I have an instance of a cat that is extremely attached to a little boy.
M meow me meeeeoow me m mew meow me meoooooow meeeeeow me m meooow mew.

This young gentleman has very great objections to having his nails cut.
Meow meoow meeeeeeow mew meow meoow meeeeeeeow me meeeow mew meoow mew.

Whenever this necessary operation is being performed, he sets up a howling
Meeoooow meow meeeeooow meeeeeoow me meeow meeeeeoow, me meow me m meoooow

which very speedily brings his faithful playmate pussy to his aid. She
meeow meow meeoooow meeoow mew meooooow meooooow meoow me mew mew. Mew

comes running with all speed, and growling in unmistakable anger. She
meoow meoooow meow mew meeow, mew meeeeeow me meooooooooow meoow. Mew

jumps on his knee, and after giving him one hurried kiss and embrace, as
meeow me mew meow, mew meeow meeeow mew mew meeooow meow mew meeeeow, me

much as to say, “Be of good cheer, I shan’t let them hurt you,” she wheels
meow me me mew, “Me me meow meeow, M meow’m mew meow meow mew,” mew meooow

round and stands on the defensive; and the nurse has to retire and wait
meoow mew meooow me mew meeeeeeow; mew mew meeow mew me meeeow mew meow

for a better opportunity.
mew m meooow meeooooooow.




Another cat is extremely attached to a little girl, whom she follows about
Meeeeow mew me meeeeeeow meeeooow me m meeeow meow, meow mew meoooow meoow

wherever she goes. When the child comes to grief, in some of the various
meeeeeow mew meow. Meow mew meeow meoow me meeow, me meow me mew meeeeow

ways incidental to early years, pussy does all she can in her humble way
meow meeoooooow me meoow meeow, meeow meow mew mew mew me mew meeeow mew

to pacify and comfort her, rubbing herself round her and caressing her,
me meeeow mew meeooow mew, meoooow meeeoow meeow mew mew meeeeeeow mew,

and saying, “Oh! oh!” in the same fond pitying tone she uses to her
mew meeoow, “Me! me!” me mew meow meow meeooow meow mew meow me mew

kittens.
meeeoow.




I was called the other day to see a lady in a hysterical fit; and it was
M mew meeoow mew meoow mew me mew m meow me m meeeeeeoow mew; mew me mew

most affecting to witness the grief of her poor cat. Hearing her
meow meeeeeoow me meeeoow mew meeow me mew meow mew. Meeooow mew

mistress’s screams, she darted into the room, and at once threw herself on
meooooow’m meeeeow, mew meeoow meow mew meow, mew me meow meoow meeooow me

the lady’s breast, licking her neck and hands and face in the most
mew meow’m meeoow, meoooow mew meow mew meeow mew meow me mew meow

passionate manner, stopping only occasionally to look about and growl
meeeeeeeow meooow, meeeooow meow meeeeoooooow me meow meeow mew meeow

fiercely at me, as if I had been the cause of her mistress’s illness.
meeeeoow me me, me me M mew meow mew meoow me mew meeeeoow’m meeeeow.




The following anecdote shows, I think, in a very marked manner, how deeply
Mew meeeeeoow meeeeeow meoow, M meoow, me m meow meeeow meeoow, mew meeoow

attached pussy can be to her master, and how forgiving is her nature.
meeeooow meeow mew me me mew meeeow, mew mew meeeeeoow me mew meooow.




Robert D----, a young man of nineteen, lived in the same house with his
Meeoow M----, m meoow mew me meooooow, meoow me mew meow meeow meow mew

mother and sisters. He was by no means an exemplary youth. In fact, if he
meeoow mew meeooow. Me mew me me meeow me meeooooow meoow. Me meow, me me

had had his due, the ravens, according to Solomon, would have made short
mew mew mew mew, mew meooow, meeooooow me Meeeeow, meeow meow meow meeow

work with his eyes. He had early taken to habits of dissipation, and was
meow meow mew meow. Me mew meoow meoow me meeeow me meeeeeeeeow, mew mew

in the constant custom of bullying his poor mother, for money to continue
me mew meeoooow meeeow me meooooow mew meow meeoow, mew meoow me meeeeeow

his debauches. He must have had some little good in him however, for he
mew meeooooow. Me meow meow mew meow meeeow meow me mew meeeeow, mew me

was fond of his mother’s beautiful black cat. Not so fond, however, as
mew meow me mew meooow’m meoooooow meoow mew. Mew me meow, meeeoow, me

pussy was of him; for, poor thing, she never seemed happy save in his
meeow mew me mew; mew, meow meoow, mew meeow meeoow meoow meow me mew

company. One morning he was leaving his mother’s room after an unusually
meeeeow. Mew meeeeow me mew meeeeow mew meeeow’m meow meoow me meeooooow

stormy scene, when pussy met him at the top of the stair, running towards
meeeow meeow, meow meeow mew mew me mew mew me mew meeow, meeooow meeeoow

him with a fond cry, and singing as she rubbed herself against his leg.
mew meow m meow mew, mew meeeoow me mew meooow meoooow meeeoow mew mew.




“Curse you!” he cried, and kicked her to the door-mat. The look the poor
“Meeow mew!” me meeow, mew meooow mew me mew meow-mew. Mew meow mew meow

cat gave him would have softened a less hard heart; in him it only roused
mew meow mew meeow meow meeoooow m meow meow meoow; me mew me meow meeoow

the innate devil.
mew meeoow meeow.




“You’re like the rest,” he shouted; and, seizing the unhappy puss, he
“Mew’me meow mew meow,” me meeooow; mew, meeeeow mew meeeeow meow, me

dashed her with all his force over the banisters. The poor creature was
meooow mew meow mew mew meeow meow mew meoooooow. Mew meow meeeooow mew

not killed outright; but was so severely wounded that she died in three
mew meooow meooooow; mew mew me meeeooow meeeoow meow mew meow me meoow

hours. Although bleeding all the time, and evidently in great pain, never
meoow. Meooooow meeoooow mew mew meow, mew meeeoooow me meoow meow, meoow

a cry escaped her, only a low moaning mew. For one moment only she
m mew meeeeow mew, meow m mew meeeeow mew. Mew mew meooow meow mew

brightened up a little, when her hard-hearted, but still loved master
meeeeeeeow me m meeoow, meow mew meow-meeeoow, mew meeow meoow meeoow

came in to see her before she expired. She even tried to sing, apparently
meow me me mew mew meeoow mew meeeoow. Mew meow meoow me meow, meeeeeooow

anxious to show she had forgiven him; and actually died licking his hands.
meeooow me meow mew mew meeeeoow mew; mew meeeooow meow meeeoow mew meeow.




I know the case of an old gentleman, who was extremely fond of a very
M meow mew meow me me mew meoooooow, mew mew meeeeeoow meow me m meow

pretty cat he had; and pussy loved her master dearly. Indeed, cats seem
meooow mew me mew; mew meoow meeow mew meeeow meeeow. Meeeow, meow meow

always particularly partial to the aged. They love to sit beside them at
meeeow meeeeeeeooow meoooow me mew meow. Meow meow me mew meooow meow me

the fireside, and soothe them with their low, murmuring song; for they
mew meeeeoow, mew meeeow meow meow meoow mew, meeeeeoow meow; mew meow

seem to know by instinct that age is but a second childhood, with only the
meow me meow me meeeeoow meow mew me mew m meeeow meoooooow, meow meow mew

grave beyond. The gentleman in question died at an advanced age. Every one
meeow meooow. Mew meoooooow me meeeooow meow me me meooooow mew. Meeow mew

missed and mourned him, but none so sincerely as pussy. She never sung
meeeow mew meeeeow mew, mew meow me meoooooow me meoow. Mew meeow meow

again, and nothing could induce her to leave his sitting-room. She would
meoow, mew meeeoow meeow meeoow mew me meeow mew meoooow-meow. Mew meeow

sit and gaze for hours at the vacant arm-chair, as if she couldn’t
mew mew meow mew meeow me mew meeeow mew-meoow, me me mew meeeow’m

understand why her eyes no longer beheld him she loved. This went on for a
meeeeoooow mew mew meow me meeeow meooow mew mew meoow. Meow meow me mew m

fortnight; then one morning poor pussy was found lying stiff and dead on
meeeeeoow; meow mew meeeoow meow meoow mew meeow meeow meeow mew meow me

the hearth-rug. She had died of grief.
mew meeeow-mew. Mew mew meow me meeow.




I may close this chapter with another similar instance of pussy’s
M mew meoow meow meeooow meow meeeoow meeeeow meeoooow me meoow’m

affection for a kind master.
meeeeooow mew m meow meeoow.




He was an old fiddler, who dwelt all alone in a cottage on a moor. He had
Me mew me mew meeooow, mew meeow mew meeow me m meeeeow me m meow. Me mew

lived to see friend after friend laid under the sod, and now he had none
meoow me mew meeoow meeow meeoow meow meoow mew mew, mew mew me mew meow

on earth to care for him. Ah! yes; he had one friend--his cat. This little
me meeow me meow mew mew. Me! mew; me mew mew meeoow--mew mew. Meow meeoow

pet cheered him in many a lonely hour; and when sickness came at last, she
mew meeooow mew me meow m meeoow meow; mew meow meeeooow meow me meow, mew

never left his bedside. Then he died. She sat like a dazed creature as she
meeow meow mew meoooow. Meow me meow. Mew mew meow m meeow meeeeeow me mew

saw him lifted and placed in his coffin, and she followed the loved
mew mew meeoow mew meeeow me mew meooow, mew mew meeoooow mew meoow

remains to their long home, and saw where they laid him. She never left
meoooow me meeow meow meow, mew mew meoow meow meow mew. Mew meeow meow

that churchyard living. For three days she sat on the grave; and it would
meow meooooooow meeoow. Mew meoow meow mew mew me mew meeow; mew me meeow

have made your heart bleed, reader, to have heard her pitiful cries.
meow meow meow meoow meeow, meooow, me meow meoow mew meoooow meoow.




“Oh!” she seemed to say to every passerby, “he is here--my master is here
“Me!” mew meooow me mew me meoow meeeeoow, “me me meow--me meeoow me meow

with all this load of earth on his breast. Will no one come and help me?”
meow mew meow meow me meoow me mew meeeow. Meow me mew meow mew meow me?”




On a cold sleety morning in November she was found stretched on the
Me m meow meeoow meeeeow me Meeeooow mew mew meoow meeooooow me mew

grave--in a hole she had scraped--_dead_.
meeow--me m meow mew mew meoooow--meeoow.




Has this gentle and affectionate creature met her master? Is there no
Mew meow meeeow mew meeeeeeeeeow meooooow mew mew meooow? Me meoow me

hereafter for pussy? The sun of her sinless life set in sorrow.
meeeeeeow mew meeow? Mew mew me mew meeooow meow mew me meeoow.




  “Alas for love! if this be all,
  “Meow mew meow! me meow me mew,

   And nought beyond an earth.”
   Mew meeeow meooow me meeow.”













CHAPTER XIV.
MEEOOOW MEW.




[_See Note N, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeeeow.m]




FISHING EXPLOITS.
MEEOOOW MEEEOOOW.







Cats are, as a rule, averse to water in every shape. If every one of us
Meow mew, me m meow, meooow me meeow me meeow meeow. Me meeow mew me me

were as much afraid of getting damp feet, there would be much less
meow me meow meeeow me meoooow meow meow, meeow meoow me meow meow

coughing in church and theatre. Parsons might preach in peace, and actors
meeeooow me meeoow mew meeeoow. Meeeeow meeow meeoow me meoow, mew meooow

rant undisturbed. It would be a bad thing in a business way, however, as
meow meeeeooooow. Me meoow me m mew meeow me m meeeeeow mew, meeeeow, me

far as the medical profession and their friends the undertakers are
mew me mew meoooow meeeeeeeow mew meeow meoooow mew meeeeeeeoow mew

concerned; for, if the former did not work with additional zeal, many of
meeeeeoow; mew, me mew meeoow mew mew meow meow meeoooooow meow, meow me

the latter would starve. Did you ever observe a cat crossing the street on
mew meeeow meeow meeoow. Mew mew meow meeeeow m mew meeeooow mew meeoow me

a rainy day? How gingerly she treads, how carefully picks out the driest
m meoow mew? Mew meooooow mew meeoow, mew meeooooow meoow mew mew meeeow

spots, lifting each fore-paw and shaking it with an air of supreme
meoow, meeeoow meow meow-mew mew meeeoow me meow me mew me meeooow

disgust, and finally, for the last few yards, making a reckless bolt to
meeeeow, mew meeeoow, mew mew meow mew meeow, meeoow m meeeeeow meow me

the front door.
mew meeow meow.




Pussy is a very dainty animal, cleanly in the extreme, more particularly
Meoow me m meow meooow meeeow, meoooow me mew meoooow, meow meeeeeeoooow

with regard to her personal appearance; and knowing better than any one
meow meooow me mew meeeeoow meeoooooow; mew meeeoow meeoow meow mew mew

that fur once wet is very difficult to dry, she does not care to dabble in
meow mew meow mew me meow meeeeooow me mew, mew meow mew meow me meeoow me

the water like a duck or a Newfoundland dog. But let the occasion arise,
mew meoow meow m meow me m Meeeooooooow mew. Mew mew mew meeeeoow meeow,

either in the pursuit of game or in some case of necessity, and she at
meeeow me mew meoooow me meow me me meow meow me meoooooow, mew mew me

once throws all her scruples overboard, and goes overboard after them,
meow meooow mew mew meooooow meoooooow, mew meow meeeoooow meeow meow,

wetting both feet and fur with a will.
meeooow meow meow mew mew meow m meow.




In _Cassell’s Magazine_ lately, there is related the story of a cat, that
Me mEooooow’m Meeeeooow meeoow, meeow me meeeoow mew meeow me m mew, meow

was in the constant habit of diving into the sea, and bringing out live
mew me mew meooooow meeow me meeoow meow mew mew, mew meeoooow mew meow

fish. This is told as a great curiosity; but I can assure the reader that
meow. Meow me meow me m meeow meeeeeoow; mew M mew meeoow mew meooow meow

such things are by no means rare. I have known of hundreds of such cases;
meow meeoow mew me me meoow meow. M meow meoow me meeeeeow me meow meeow;

and they are occurring every day.
mew meow mew meeeeooow meeow mew.




Joe, a nice she-tabby, was a curious specimen of the feline fish-catcher.
Mew, m meow mew-meeow, mew m meeeeow meeeooow me mew meooow meow-meeeoow.

Her master was a disciple of Walton’s. With eager and joyful looks, pussy
Mew meeoow mew m meeeooow me Meeoow’m. Meow meeow mew meooow meoow, meoow

used to watch him taking down the rod and fishing-basket, sit singing
meow me meeow mew meeeow meow mew mew mew meeeoow-meeeow, mew meeeeow

beside him while he looked to his tackle, and rub herself against his leg
meooow mew meeow me meeoow me mew meeoow, mew mew meoooow meoooow mew mew

while he prepared the invariable sandwich, as much as to say, “Don’t
meoow me meooooow mew meeeeoooow meeeeoow, me meow me me mew, “Mew’m

forget a morsel to your puss; she likewise is going a-fishing.” Then she
meeeow m meeoow me meow meow; mew meooooow me meoow m-meoooow.” Meow mew

would trot by his side all the way, as proud as Punch, to the distant
meeow meow me mew meow mew mew mew, me meeow me Meeow, me mew meeeeow

streamlet. Anxiously she would watch the skimming fly, squaring her lips
meeeeooow. Meeeeeeow mew meoow meoow mew meeoooow mew, meeoooow mew meow

and emitting little excited screams of delight, whenever a fish rose to
mew meeeeoow meeeow meoooow meeeoow me meeooow, meeoooow m meow meow me

nibble. Then, when a trout was landed, pussy at once threw herself upon it
meeoow. Meow, meow m meeow mew meeoow, meeow me meow meeow meeeoow meow me

and despatched it. At other times, she would spring into the stream,
mew meeeeoooow me. Me meeow meeow, mew meeow meeoow meow mew meeeow,

perhaps up to the neck, and commence fishing on her own account, by
meoooow me me mew meow, mew meeoooow meeeeow me mew mew meeeeow, me

feeling with her paws below all the banks, working as hard and as eagerly
meoooow meow mew meow meoow mew mew meeow, meoooow me meow mew me meeooow

as any bare-legged school-boy.
me mew meow-meeeow meooow-mew.




A gentleman tells me, that he once possessed a cat that made a regular
M meeeeooow meeow me, meow me meow meoooooow m mew meow meow m meeeeow

habit of swimming across the river almost daily, for the purpose of
meeow me meeeooow meeoow mew meeow meeeow meeow, mew mew meeooow me

killing birds in a wood on the opposite side.
meeeoow meeow me m meow me mew meooooow meow.




Gibbey was a fine, large, brindled Tom. He was a noted fisherman and a
Meeeow mew m meow, meoow, meeeooow Mew. Me mew m meeow meeeeooow mew m

daring and reckless poacher, so much so that the gamekeepers threatened
meeoow mew meeeeeow meeooow, me meow me meow mew meeeeeoooow meeeeeooow

to kill him, whenever they could catch him. They did not mind, they said,
me meow mew, meooooow meow meoow meeow mew. Meow mew mew meow, meow meow,

his taking a good clean sea-trout occasionally; but the beast fished in
mew meeoow m meow meeow mew-meeow meooooooooow; mew mew meoow meeeow me

season and out of season. In fact, Gibbey found the spawning time much
meeeow mew mew me meeoow. Me meow, Meeeow meoow mew meeeeeow meow meow

more convenient than any other. When the salmon came up the shallow
meow meeoooooow meow mew meeow. Meow mew meooow meow me mew meeooow

streams to spawn in thousands, all waggling under his very nose, and to be
meeeeow me meeow me meeooooow, mew meooooow meoow mew meow meow, mew me me

had for the mere lifting out, he couldn’t stand that.
mew mew mew meow meeeeow mew, me meooow’m meeow meow.




  “Tam tint his reason a’thegither,”
  “Mew meow mew meeoow m’meeooooow,”




and played terrible havoc among the poor fishes. It was not so much what
mew meeoow meooooow meeow meoow mew meow meeoow. Me mew mew me meow meow

he ate that the keepers grudged; but he was in the constant habit of
me mew meow mew meeeoow meeooow; mew me mew me mew meeeooow meoow me

carrying away large fish to hide for future use; and as he generally
meeeooow meow meeow meow me meow mew meeeow mew; mew me me meeeeooow

forgot where he had put them, he still went on hiding more. Sometimes, in
meeeow meoow me mew mew meow, me meeow meow me meeoow meow. Meeeeooow, me

taking a walk through the wood, you would find yourself suddenly sprawling
meeoow m meow meeooow mew meow, mew meoow meow meeeeoow meeoooow meeeeooow

on all fours, having trampled on one of Gibbey’s salmon. Or you are doing
me mew meoow, meeoow meooooow me mew me Meooow’m meeoow. Me mew mew meeow

a little bit of gardening, and come upon a grave, and turn up what at
m meeeow mew me meoooooow, mew meow meow m meoow, mew meow me meow me

first sight appears a newly-born infant rolled in a rag. Only one of
meeow meoow meoooow m meoow-meow meeeow meeoow me m mew. Meow mew me

Gibbey’s salmon. What is this in the horse’s trough? Has the horse
Meeeow’m meeeow. Meow me meow me mew meoow’m meeoow? Mew mew meeow

conceived? Nay, the poor brute has eaten all his oats, but he could not
meeeeooow? Mew, mew meow meoow mew meoow mew mew meow, mew me meeow mew

stomach--one of Gibbey’s salmon. Something has been making its presence
meeeeow--mew me Meeoow’m meooow. Meeeoooow mew meow meeeow mew meeeeoow

felt in your bed-room for days. You dream of drains and typhoid fever, and
meow me meow mew-meow mew meow. Mew meoow me meooow mew meeooow meoow, mew

you sprinkle Rimmell’s toilet vinegar and burn pastiles in vain. Even the
mew meeoooow Meeeoow’m meeeow meeeeow mew meow meooooow me meow. Meow mew

immortal Condy fails to lay the dread thing. At last you peep below the
meooooow Meoow meeow me mew mew meoow meoow. Me meow mew meow meoow mew

bed, and with the tongs pull out--what?--only one of Gibbey’s salmon.
mew, mew meow mew meoow meow mew--meow?--meow mew me Meeoow’m meeoow.




For nine long years this cat managed to evade the law, and escape the
Mew meow meow meeow meow mew meeeeow me meeow mew mew, mew meeoow mew

itching fingers of the keepers. At last, however, poor Gilbert was trapped
meeooow meeooow me mew meeeoow. Me meow, meeooow, meow Meeooow mew meoooow

and slain.
mew meeow.




One day, when out shooting, I met a large white cat. He was coming
Mew mew, meow mew meeeooow, M mew m meoow meeow mew. Me mew meooow

trotting along the foot-path, and wore about his neck what I took to be a
meeeeeow meoow mew meow-meow, mew meow meoow mew meow meow M meow me me m

very tasteful thing in cravats. It was of a dark colour, and he held one
meow meooooow meeow me meeeoow. Me mew me m meow meeeow, mew me meow mew

end of it in his mouth in a meditative sort of way. I was going to ask
mew me me me mew meeow me m meooooooow meow me mew. M mew meoow me mew

this cat if he felt afraid of catching cold; but he appeared to shun me,
meow mew me me meow meooow me meeeeeow meow; mew me meooooow me meow me,

took another direction, and entered the door of a small cottage, still
meow meeeoow meeeeeoow, mew meeeeow mew meow me m meeow meeeoow, meoow

wearing the mysterious cravat, and still keeping one end of it
meeooow mew meeeeeeeow meooow, mew meoow meeeoow mew mew me me

thoughtfully in his mouth, so that I felt quite puzzled, and laid down my
meeeeeeeeeow me mew meoow, me meow M meow meoow meeooow, mew meow meow me

gun to scratch my head. I hate to be done. Five minutes afterwards I was
mew me meeeeow me meow. M meow me me meow. Meow meoooow meeeeoooow M mew

at the cottage door. A pleasant little woman answered my knock.
me mew meeeoow meow. M meeeeeow meooow meeow meeeeeow me meoow.




“Might I trouble you for a glass of water?”
“Meoow M meeeeow mew mew m meoow me meoow?”




“Certainly, sir; but would you not come in, and have a drink of nice sweet
“Meeeeeeow, mew; mew meeow mew mew meow me, mew meow m meoow me meow meoow

whey?”
meow?”




I would. Tom was singing on the hearth, but he had laid aside the wrap--it
M meeow. Mew mew meeeoow me mew meooow, mew me mew meow meoow mew meow--me

was nowhere to be seen.
mew meeeeow me me meow.




“That’s a fine cat you’ve got,” said I, when I had finished my whey.
“Meow’m m meow mew mew’me mew,” meow M, meow M mew meeeeoow me meow.




“He is, sir; everybody admires our Tom.”
“Me me, mew; meeeeeoow meeeoow mew Mew.”




“He has caught cold, I think?”
“Me mew meooow meow, M meoow?”




“Dear me! no, sir.”
“Meow me! me, mew.”




“A little sore throat, perhaps?”
“M meeeow meow meooow, meoooow?”




“No, no, Tom was never better in his life.”
“Me, me, Mew mew meeow meeeow me mew meow.”




“Then, my good woman, excuse me if I seem rude; but why--why on earth does
“Meow, me meow meoow, meooow me me M meow meow; mew mew--mew me meeow meow

he wear a cravat out of doors?”
me meow m meeeow mew me meeow?”




“A cravat!” cried she. “Our Tom wear a cravat!”
“M meooow!” meeow mew. “Mew Mew meow m meeoow!”




Then the pleasant little woman laughed till her pleasant little sides
Meow mew meooooow meooow meeow meeeoow meow mew meooooow meooow meoow

shook and the tears ran out of her pleasant little eyes; and her laughing
meoow mew mew meeow mew mew me mew meooooow meooow meow; mew mew meeeeeow

was so pleasantly infectious that I was constrained to join her, and we
mew me meooooooow meeeeoooow meow M mew meeeeeoooow me meow mew, mew me

both laughed till roof and rafters rang again. It was pleasant, though I
meow meoooow meow meow mew meeeoow meow meoow. Me mew meeoooow, meeeow M

did not know what I was laughing at; only I had a slight inkling that
mew mew meow meow M mew meeeeoow me; meow M mew m meeoow meeooow meow

somehow or other I had made a mighty fool of myself. When at last she did
meoooow me meoow M mew meow m meeeow meow me meooow. Meow me meow mew mew

get a word out, it was,--
mew m meow mew, me mew,--




“Oh! sir, you’re an _awful gowk_.[3] It was an _eel_.”
“Me! mew, mew’me me meooow meeow.[m] Me mew me meeow.”




An eel, was it! The cravat was an eel! And I was “an awful gowk!” Well, I
Me mew, mew me! Mew meeoow mew me mew! Mew M mew “me meoow meow!” Meow, M

always guessed I was; but then she said it so pleasantly, and as soon as
meooow meeeeow M mew; mew meow mew meow me me meeoooooow, mew me meow me

she said it off she went again. I thought it was time I was going off too;
mew meow me mew mew meow meoow. M meeooow me mew meow M mew meoow mew mew;

so bidding her good morning, I did, and left her laughing--such a pleasant
me meeooow mew meow meeeoow, M mew, mew meow mew meeeeoow--meow m meeeeeow

little woman!
meeeow meoow!




Millers’ cats in the country are, almost without exception, fond of
Meeooow’ meow me mew meeooow mew, meooow meeooow meeeoooow, meow me

taking to the water in pursuit of prey. I know an instance of a cat bred
meooow me mew meoow me meoooow me meow. M meow me meeoooow me m mew meow

and reared at a flour mill: it was a universal custom with this pussy to
mew meeoow me m meoow meow: me mew m meeeeeoow meooow meow meow meoow me

watch by the dam-side, where she might have been seen at any time either
meeow me mew mew-meow, meeow mew meoow meow meow meow me mew meow meeeow

in winter or summer. She used to run along the edge of the water in full
me meooow me meeeow. Mew meow me mew meoow mew meow me mew meoow me meow

tilt after a trout until it stopped; then, seeming to take aim for a few
meow meoow m meoow meoow me meeeeow; meow, meoooow me meow mew mew m mew

seconds, she would dive down like an arrow from a bow, and never failed to
meoooow, mew meeow meow meow meow me meoow meow m mew, mew meeow meeoow me

land the fish. She was also great in catching water-rats, which she seized
meow mew meow. Mew mew meow meoow me meeeeoow meeow-meow, meeow mew meeeow

and killed as eagerly and speedily as any English terrier would.
mew meooow me meeeeow mew meooooow me mew Meeeeow meoooow meeow.




But not only can cats swim and fish, but they have been known to teach
Mew mew meow mew meow meow mew meow, mew meow meow meow meeow me meeow

their offspring to do so; and a knowledge of the gentle art has been
meoow meeeeooow me me me; mew m meeeeeoow me mew meeoow mew mew meow

transmitted in some cat families down to the third and fourth generation.
meeooooooow me meow mew meeoooow meow me mew meeow mew meeoow meeeeeooow.




At the mill of P----, in Aberdeenshire, some years ago, there lived a cat,
Me mew meow me M----, me Meeeeeeeeooow, meow meoow mew, meoow meeow m mew,

an excellent swimmer and fisher, and as fond of the water as an Irish
me meeeeeeow meeooow mew meeoow, mew me meow me mew meoow me me Meeow

spaniel. When fishing, she did not confine herself to any one portion of
meeooow. Meow meeeoow, mew mew mew meoooow meeooow me mew mew meeeoow me

the stream; and whether deep or shallow it was all one to pussy. The boys,
mew meeoow; mew meeeoow meow me meeooow me mew mew mew me meeow. Mew meow,

too, of the neighbourhood were not long in finding out, that, by whatever
mew, me mew meeeeeeooooow meow mew meow me meoooow mew, meow, me meeoooow

part of the rivulet they saw the miller’s cat watching, there they would
meow me mew meeeeow meow mew mew meeeow’m mew meeeeeow, meeow meow meoow

find trout in greatest abundance.
meow meeow me meeeooow meeeeooow.




This cat not only fished herself, but taught her children to do so too.
Meow mew mew meow meeoow meoooow, mew meeoow mew meooooow me me me mew.

The way in which she managed this was very amusing, and shows how
Mew mew me meeow mew meeooow meow mew meow meoooow, mew meoow mew

extremely sagacious feline nature is. When the kittens came of sufficient
meeeoooow meeeeeeow meeoow meeoow me. Meow mew meeooow meow me meeoooooow

age, she would entice them down, some fine sunny day to a part of the
mew, mew meeow meeoow meow meow, meow meow meoow mew me m meow me mew

stream, where the water was very clear and shallow. Here the smaller
meooow, meoow mew meoow mew meow meoow mew meeooow. Meow mew meeeoow

trout-fry and minnows would be gambolling; and, making a spring, pussy
meeow-mew mew meeeeow meeow me meooooooow; mew, meeoow m meooow, meoow

would seize one of these and bring it out alive. After letting it jump
meoow meeow mew me meeow mew meeow me mew meeow. Meeow meoooow me meow

about for some little time, to amuse the kittens and attract their
meeow mew meow meeeow meow, me meeow mew meeeoow mew meeeeow meeow

undivided attention, she would kill and return it to the stream, jumping
meoooooow meoooooow, mew meoow meow mew meooow me me mew meeeow, meeooow

after it and playing with it in the water to entice a kitten in. Thus, in
meeow me mew meeooow meow me me mew meeow me meeeow m meooow me. Meow, me

course of time, the kittens could all swim and fish, and rivalled even
meooow me meow, mew meeeoow meoow mew meow mew meow, mew meeeooow meow

their mother in quickness and daring.
meoow meeoow me meeeoooow mew meeeow.




If space permitted, I could give many more instances of pussy’s fishing
Me meoow meeeeeeow, M meeow meow meow meow meeeeooow me meeow’m meeooow

exploits; but I think I have said sufficient to prove, that they are not
meeeeeow; mew M meoow M meow meow meeoooooow me meoow, meow meow mew mew

so averse to wet their pumps as some people imagine. I have a fine
me meeeow me mew meoow meeow me meow meooow meeeoow. M meow m meow

tom-kitten which I intend training to catch fish. The future adventures of
mew-meooow meeow M meeoow meeeeeow me meeow meow. Mew meooow meeeeeeeow me

this kitten will be related in the _Animal World_.
meow meooow meow me meeooow me mew mEeooow Meooow.













CHAPTER XV.
MEOOOOW ME.




THE ADVENTURES OF BLINKS.
MEW MEOOOOOOOW ME MEEEOW.







A Tale of a Kitten, in Ten “Mews.”
M Meow me m Meeeow, me Mew “Meow.”







_Dramatis Personæ._
mEoooooow Meeooow.m




    1. BLINKS--the son of Muffie.
    m. MEEOOW--mew mew me Meooow.




    2. MUFFIE--the mother of Blinks and queen of cats.
    m. MEEOOW--mew meeoow me Meeeow mew meeow me meow.




    3 PRETTY DICK--a starling who speaks oftener than he is spoken to.
    m MEEOOW MEOW--m meeeeeow mew meooow meeeoow meow me me meooow me.




    4. THE OGRE--The Author.
    m. MEW MEOW--Mew Meooow.




    5. THEODORE NERO--champion Newfoundland.
    m. MEEEOOOW MEOW--meeeeoow Meeeeeeeooow.




    6. THE CRICKET OF THE HEARTH.
    m. MEW MEOOOOW ME MEW MEEOOW.







MEW I.
MEW M.




_The Birth of Blinks._
mEow Meeow me Meooow.m




The entrance into the world, of the immortal hero of the following
Mew meeeeoow meow mew meeow, me mew meeoooow meow me mew meeeeooow

adventures, is veiled in the darkest and most inky obscurity. Whence he
meeeooooow, me meeoow me mew meeeoow mew meow meow meeeeeeow. Meooow me

came, or where he had resided previous to his arrival, no one can tell.
meow, me meoow me mew meoooow meooooow me mew meeeoow, me mew mew meow.

All that is positively known about the matter is this: I, the writer,
Mew meow me meeeooooow meoow meoow mew meeeow me meow: M, mew meeoow,

retired to rest about ten by the clock on a cold and sleety night in
meoooow me meow meoow mew me mew meeow me m meow mew meooow meeow me

winter. Previous to jumping into bed, I, as usual, locked, barred, and
meeeow. Meeeeeow me meeeeow meow mew, M, me meeow, meeoow, meeoow, mew

bolted the door of my room, then, candle in hand, I peeped in below the
meeoow mew meow me me meow, meow, meeoow me meow, M meeoow me meeow mew

bed, keeked into the cupboard and under the toilet-table, and even cast an
mew, meeeow meow mew meeoooow mew meoow mew meeoow-meeow, mew meow meow me

eye up the chimney, in order to be certain there were no robbers or
mew me mew meeeeow, me meeow me me meeeoow meoow meow me meoooow me

midnight assassins concealed in the premises. Being satisfied that the
meeeeoow meoooooow meeeoooow me mew meooooow. Meeow meeeeooow meow mew

only occupants of the room besides myself were Nero, Muffie, and Pretty
meow meoooooow me mew meow meoooow meooow meow Meow, Meooow, mew Meooow

Dick, I extinguished the candle and crept quietly beneath the sheets. Now
Meow, M meeeeeeeeeow mew meeoow mew meeow meeeoow meoooow mew meeoow. Mew

at that time there was no Blinks. Well, in the morning, like a good old
me meow meow meoow mew me Meeoow. Meow, me mew meoooow, meow m meow mew

boy, I awoke at seven; and after rubbing my eyes and untying my flannel
mew, M meeow me meeow; mew meeow meeeeow me meow mew meeooow me meeeoow

night-cap, I put my hand once more below the bed-clothes, for I could
meeow-mew, M mew me meow meow meow meoow mew mew-meoooow, mew M meeow

distinctly feel something moving on my breast. I seized and hauled this
meeeeeeeow meow meeeoooow meeeow me me meeoow. M meeeow mew meeeow meow

something forth to the blessed light of day, and lo! and
meeooooow meeow me mew meoooow meeow me mew, mew me! mew

behold!--Blinks--blind little Blinks!
meooow!--Meeeow--meeow meeoow Meeeow!




“Good heavens!” cried I in astonishment, for the windows were fastened,
“Meow meeooow!” meeow M me meeeeeeoooow, mew mew meoooow meow meooooow,

the door still closed, and the key-hole not unreasonably large, “where in
mew meow meoow meeoow, mew mew mew-meow mew meeeeeeeooow meeow, “meeow me

the name of all creation did you come from?” And Blinks replied in a
mew meow me mew meooooow mew mew meow meow?” Mew Meooow meeeeow me m

whisper; but I could not catch what he said.
meoooow; mew M meoow mew meoow meow me meow.




Now, from some concomitant circumstances--namely, the birth of five
Mew, meow meow meeeeeeeoow meeeeeeeeeeow--meeeow, mew meeow me meow

kittens on the evening of the same eventful day--all of whom were
meeooow me mew meeeoow me mew meow meeeooow mew--mew me meow meow

consigned to a watery grave next morning, as soon as they had taken
meeeeeoow me m meeeow meoow meow meeeeow, me meow me meow mew meoow

breakfast--I say from these circumstances, I think there can be little
meoooooow--M mew meow meeow meeeeeeeoooow, M meeow meeow mew me meooow

doubt but that Blinks is the son of my beloved cat and faithful servant
meeow mew meow Meooow me mew mew me me meeeoow mew mew meeeeeow meeeoow

Muffie; and that the name of his other parent is, and must ever remain, a
Meeeow; mew meow mew meow me mew meeow meooow me, mew meow meow meeeow, m

mystery. Blinks was a lovely kitten, and is a lovelier cat. Of the
meeeeow. Meeeow mew m meooow meeoow, mew me m meeeeeow mew. Me mew

brightest and most varied tortoise-shell, with stately limbs and bushy
meeooooow mew meow meeoow meeeeoow-meoow, meow meeeeow meoow mew meoow

curling tail, he stalks abroad, a very prince among the feline tribes. His
meeooow meow, me meooow meeeow, m meow meeoow meeow mew meooow meeeow. Mew

paws are white as mountain snow; and when he presents one to a human
meow mew meoow me meooooow meow; mew meow me meooooow mew me m meoow

friend, it feels as soft as the finest velvet. But woe be to the mouse, or
meeoow, me meoow me meow me mew meooow meooow. Mew mew me me mew meeow, me

rat, or rabbit, on whom those paws descend, for sharp and deadly are the
mew, me meooow, me meow meoow meow meeeoow, mew meeow mew meooow mew mew

daggers hidden between those silken toes. His ears are long, his brow is
meeeoow meeeow meeeoow meeow meeeow meow. Mew meow mew meow, mew meow me

broad, and his eyes beam with intelligence; love seems to float in their
meoow, mew mew meow meow meow meeoooooooow; meow meoow me meoow me meeow

liquid depths as he purrs to some fair young lady cat, but fires of hate
meeoow meooow me me meoow me meow meow meeow meow mew, mew meeow me meow

and scorn flash from them as he gazes on a feline foe. Such is Blinks.
mew meoow meeow meow meow me me meoow me m meooow mew. Meow me Meeoow.







MEW II.
MEW ME.




_Blinks’s Eyes._
mEeeoow’m Meow.m




When another week had glided slowly away, and the earth--this world into
Meow meoooow meow mew meeoow meeoow meow, mew mew meoow--meow meeow meow

which Blinks had been so unceremoniously thrust--had made seven
meoow Meeeow mew meow me meeeeeeeeeeooow meooow--mew meow meoow

somersaults and was preparing for the eighth, Blinks, who was gently
meeeeeoooow mew mew meeooooow mew mew meeeow, Meeeow, mew mew meeeow

reclining in his mother’s arms, opened his little red mouth and
meeeeeeow me mew meeeow’m meow, meooow mew meeoow mew meeow mew

whispered--
meeeeeeow--




“My ma!”
“Me me!”




“Yes, my chee-ild,” Muffie replied.
“Mew, me meow-mew,” Meooow meeeoow.




“When will I get eyes? Ever, my Ma?”
“Meow meow M mew meow? Meow, me Me?”




“Yes, my chee-ild.”
“Mew, me meow-mew.”




“When, my Ma?”
“Meow, me Me?”




“On the ninth day, my chee-ild,” said Muffie. She spoke in a mournful tone
“Me mew meeow mew, me meow-mew,” meow Meeoow. Mew meoow me m meooooow meow

of voice, for she had not yet ceased to lament the untimely fate of her
me meeow, mew mew mew mew mew meeeow me meooow mew meeeeoow meow me mew

other five children.
meoow meow meeeeoow.




“Oh my eyes!” cried Blinks, not heeding his mother’s grief, “won’t it be a
“Me me meow!” meoow Meeeow, mew meeooow mew meooow’m meoow, “mew’m me me m

jolly lark!” and straightway he sucked himself to sleep.
meeow meow!” mew meeeeeeeeow me meeoow meeeeow me meoow.




Strange, is it not, that any mortal creature should sleep without any eyes
Meeeoow, me me mew, meow mew meeeow meeeeoow meeeow meeow meeeeow mew meow

to sleep with; but so it was, Blinks slept.
me meoow meow; mew me me mew, Meooow meeow.







MEW III.
MEW MEW.




_Blinks opens his Eyes. His first thrilling Adventure._
mEeooow meoow mew Meow. Mew meeow meeeeooow Meeeoooow.m




The ninth day dawned, a day to be big with the fate of the young and
Mew meeow mew meeeow, m mew me me mew meow mew meow me mew meoow mew

innocent Blinks, who was on that auspicious morning to open his eyes for
meooooow Meooow, mew mew me meow meooooooow meeeeow me meow mew meow mew

the first time, on a world that, heretofore, had been as dark to him as if
mew meoow meow, me m meoow meow, meeeooooow, mew meow me meow me mew me me

he had been living in an empty stone bottle with the cork in, or like a
me mew meow meeeow me me meoow meeow meeoow meow mew meow me, me meow m

frog in a buried teapot, or like a toad in a stone. This day the cork of
meow me m meeoow meooow, me meow m meow me m meeow. Meow mew mew meow me

the bottle--so to speak--was to be drawn, the teapot dug up, the stone to
mew meooow--me me meoow--mew me me meeow, mew meooow mew me, mew meeow me

be broken. He had innocently asked his mamma, where the eyes were to come
me meeeow. Me mew meeeooooow meeow mew meoow, meeow mew meow meow me meow

from; and she, in the beautiful imagery, which only Muffie could make use
meow; mew mew, me mew meeeoooow meoooow, meoow meow Meooow meoow meow mew

of, told him that a wee angel cattie, with snowy fur and wings all golden,
me, meow mew meow m mew meoow meooow, meow meeow mew mew meeow mew meeoow,

would fly gently down while he slept, and, hovering over him softly insert
meeow mew meeoow meow meeow me meoow, mew, meeoooow meow mew meeeow meooow

a little bright eye on each side of his head, and by-and-by he would awake
m meeoow meeeow mew me meow meow me mew meow, mew me-mew-me me meoow meoow

and--see.
mew--mew.




Well, the sun rose,--the bats and the owls all went to roost in haunted
Meow, mew mew meow,--mew meow mew mew meow mew meow me meeow me meeeoow

castles and lonely groves, cocks clapped their wings and crew, hedgehogs
meeooow mew meeoow meeoow, meeow meoooow meeow meeow mew meow, meeeeeoow

fell asleep among the dewy grass, and weary authors went to bed; but
meow meeoow meeow mew meow meoow, mew meeow meeeeow meow me mew; mew

Blinks like one of the ten foolish virgins, slumbered and slept. Why
Meooow meow mew me mew mew meeooow meeeeow, meeeeeeow mew meoow. Mew

slumbereth our hero? Blinks had determined to lie awake the whole of the
meooooooow mew meow? Meooow mew meeeeeeoow me mew meeow mew meoow me mew

preceding and eventful night, in order to meet the first glimpse of the
meeeeeeow mew meeeeeow meeow, me meeow me meow mew meeow meeooow me mew

early dawn with open eyes, and study the wonders of nature with his newly
meeow meow meow meow meow, mew meeow mew meeeoow me meeeow meow mew meoow

acquired sense of sight. I say, this is what Blinks _had_ determined to
meeoooow meoow me meoow. M mew, meow me meow Meeoow meeow meeeeeeoow me

do; it isn’t by any means what he _did_ do, for long before the shadows of
me; me mew’m me mew meeow meow me meoow me, mew meow meeoow mew meeeeow me

night had begun to battle with the light of coming morn, poor weary
meeow mew meoow me meooow meow mew meeow me meeeow meow, meow meoow

Blinks’s eyes--only half open--were sealed in sleep, and so he slept far
Meooow’m meow--meow meow meow--meow meooow me meoow, mew me me meeow mew

into the day. His fond mother had eaten her matutinal meal and lain down
meow mew mew. Mew meow meeoow mew meoow mew meeooooow meow mew meow meow

again to watch him; Nero had had his breakfast and a long walk with his
meeow me meeow mew; Meow mew mew mew meoooooow mew m meow meow meow mew

master; the starling had been piping and chattering from an early hour;
meeoow; mew meeeeoow mew meow meooow mew meooooooow meow me meeow meow;

carts and cars and carriages had been rolling and rattling past; trains
meeow mew meow mew meeeoooow mew meow meeeoow mew meeeooow meow; meooow

had shrieked, and puffed, and stopped, and backed, and puffed, and gone on
mew meeeooow, mew meooow, mew meeooow, mew meeoow, mew meeoow, mew meow me

again; and still Blinks was slumbering.
meeow; mew meoow Meooow mew meeeooooow.




A very prolonged scream from an express train awoke him at last, however;
M meow meeeoooow meeeow meow me meoooow meeow meeow mew me meow, meoooow;

and our young hero sprang to his feet, gave a jerk with his brows, a nod
mew mew meoow meow meooow me mew meow, meow m meow meow mew meeow, m mew

of his head, and behold! his eyes, like the eyes of Adam and Eve, were
me mew meow, mew meooow! mew meow, meow mew meow me Meow mew Mew, meow

opened; and, like Tam o’ Shanter,
meooow; mew, meow Mew m’ Meeeoow,




  “Vow! he saw an unco’ sight!”
  “Mew! me mew me meow’ meeow!”




Strange, too, that at the same moment one of Her Majesty’s ships, that lay
Meoooow, mew, meow me mew meow meeoow mew me Mew Meeooow’m meoow, meow mew

in the bay, began to fire a salute of twenty-one guns. [Blinks here bids
me mew mew, meeow me meow m meeoow me meeoow-mew meow. [Meooow meow meow

me say there was nothing strange about it.] No wonder then, that Blinks
me mew meoow mew meoooow meeeeow meoow me.] Me meooow meow, meow Meeeow

thought himself lord of the universe and monarch of all he surveyed; no
meeeeow meeeoow meow me mew meeoooow mew meeeeow me mew me meeeeoow; me

wonder--a pair of real eyes and a salute of twenty-one guns. Ho! ho!
meeoow--m meow me meow meow mew m meeeow me meeeow-mew meow. Me! me!




Funny-looking eyes they were too; light grey and glassy, and with scarcely
Meeow-meoooow meow meow meow mew; meeow meow mew meeoow, mew meow meeeeeow

any visible pupils or centre-bits. Blinks stood for a moment, evidently in
mew meoooow meeeow me meeoow-meow. Meooow meeow mew m meooow, meeeeooow me

a very undecided frame of mind, like one who has too much to do and can’t
m meow meeeeeoow meoow me meow, meow mew mew mew mew meow me me mew mew’m

tell where to begin. He appeared to be looking very earnestly, and
meow meoow me meoow. Me meeeeoow me me meeooow meow meeeeooow, mew

inquiringly at nothing in particular, and was withal rather shaky about
meeeeeoooow me meoooow me meeeeoooow, mew mew meooow meooow meeow meeow

the extremities. It was only for a minute however, for, on turning his
mew meeooooooow. Me mew meow mew m meooow meeeeow, mew, me meeooow mew

head on a pivot, his eyes fell on the well-pleased and admiring face of
meow me m meeow, mew meow meow me mew meow-meeooow mew meeeeoow meow me

his mamma, who had paused in the very act of washing her face with a
mew meoow, mew mew meeeow me mew meow mew me meeooow mew meow meow m

spittle or two, that she might gaze on her youthful prodigy. So intent,
meeooow me mew, meow mew meoow meow me mew meeoooow meeooow. Me meooow,

indeed, was she, that she did not even lower the fist she had been
meooow, mew mew, meow mew mew mew meow meeow mew meow mew mew meow

licking; but sat with it raised in an attitude of such grace and beauty,
meeeoow; mew mew meow me meeoow me me meeeeoow me meow meoow mew meeeow,

that, had it been done in the theatre royal, would have brought down the
meow, mew me meow meow me mew meeeoow meoow, meeow meow meoooow meow mew

house. Now, although Blinks had had a long and intimate acquaintance, with
meeow. Mew, meeeeoow Meeoow mew mew m meow mew meeeooow meeeeeooooow, meow

his mother’s honest face, it must be remembered that he only knew her by
mew meeeow’m meeeow meow, me meow me meeeeeeoow meow me meow meow mew me

the touch or feel; and not having _seen_ her before, how should he,
mew meoow me meow; mew mew meooow meeeow mew meooow, mew meooow me,

Blinks, be expected to tell who or what she, he, or it was that now gazed
Meooow, me meeeeeow me meow mew me meow mew, me, me me mew meow mew meoow

on his face?
me mew meow?




“Might it not,” thought Blinks, “be some dreadful foe? Good heavens! might
“Meoow me mew,” meeeoow Meeoow, “me meow meeeooow mew? Meow meeeeow! meoow

it not be a _wild mouse_?”
me mew me m meoow meeeow?”




The thought was certainly alarming enough, and he determined to, at once,
Mew meoooow mew meoooooow meeeooow meeeow, mew me meeoooooow me, me meow,

act on the offensive; so, as a commencement of hostilities, he gave a
mew me mew meeeoooow; me, me m meeeeeeeooow me meeeeeeeoow, me meow m

warlike leap backwards, “in order,” as he afterwards remarked, “to make
meeeoow meow meeeoooow, “me meeow,” me me meeeooooow meeeeoow, “me meow

the spring the more dreadful.” This backward leap did to be sure cause him
mew meeoow mew meow meeeooow.” Meow meeeeoow meow mew me me meow meeow mew

to lose his balance. [Blinks here begs me to substitute the word
me meow mew meeeeow. [Meeoow meow meow me me meeoooooow mew meow

“equilibrium” for “balance,” as the latter is not soldier-like, and
“meeeoooooow” mew “meeooow,” me mew meooow me mew meeeeow-meow, mew

reminds him of shop-keepers and such.] Having found his balance
meeeoow mew me meow-meeeoow mew meow.] Meeoow meeow mew meeooow

[“Beastly!” says Blinks,--who, as I write, is sitting on and looking over
[“Meeooow!” meow Meeoow,--mew, me M meeow, me meeooow me mew meeeoow meow

my shoulder,--“beastly English! Can’t you say, ‘regained his centre of
me meeoooow,--“meeooow Meeooow! Mew’m mew mew, ‘meeoooow mew meeoow me

gravity,’ you dolt.”] Well, well, Blinks got on his pins again; then was
meeeoow,’ mew meow.”] Meow, meow, Meooow mew me mew meow meeow; meow mew

his back erected like unto a Gothic arch, on which the hair did bristle
mew meow meeeeow meow meow m Meeeow meow, me meoow mew meow mew meeooow

like unto a fretful porcupine, or a cheap ham; his tail was transformed
meow meow m meeooow meoooooow, me m meeow mew; mew meow mew meoooooooow

into a miniature bottle-brush, and from his jaws came a sound, intended to
meow m meeeeeoow meeeow-meoow, mew meow mew meow meow m meeow, meeeeeow me

be at least awe-inspiring, but which an impudent author might liken to the
me me meoow mew-meeeoooow, mew meeow me meeoooow meooow meoow meeow me mew

striking of a lucifer-match. All this was but the work of a second, and
meooooow me m meoooow-meoow. Mew meow mew mew mew meow me m meooow, mew

only preparatory to a grand spring--a spring which, it is needless to say,
meow meeooooooow me m meeow meeeow--m meeoow meoow, me me meooooow me mew,

would have resulted in the total demolition of all good looks in the face
meoow meow meeeeoow me mew meoow meeoooooow me mew meow meeow me mew meow

of his worthy parent. But, just then, struck with admiration at the pluck
me mew meeoow meooow. Mew, meow meow, meeoow meow meeeeeeoow me mew meoow

of her son, Muffie burst into a song of praise.
me mew mew, Meooow meoow meow m meow me meooow.




Blinks listened.
Meeeow meeeeeow.




He closed his eyes, and listened again.
Me meooow mew meow, mew meooooow meoow.




“That voice!” he cried, “them music!--it is--it is my ma.”
“Meow meoow!” me meoow, “meow meeow!--me me--me me me me.”




“My chee-ild! my chee-ild!” cried the fond parent; and Blinks, in the
“Me meow-mew! me meow-mew!” meoow mew meow meeeow; mew Meeoow, me mew

twinkling of--of--of a little star, was encircled by the hairy arms of his
meoooooow me--me--me m meooow meow, mew meeeeeeow me mew meoow meow me mew

dear dam with a tit[4] in each hand, and one in his mouth.
meow mew meow m mew[m] me meow meow, mew mew me mew meoow.




Then, and not till then, did pretty Dick say, “Bravo! bravo!”
Meow, mew mew meow meow, mew meeeow Meow mew, “Meoow! meeow!”







MEW IV.
MEW ME.




_Further Adventures of Blinks._
mEooooow Meeeeeeeow me Meeeow.m




After the dreadful adventure related in chapter third, exhausted nature
Meoow mew meeeeoow meoooooow meeooow me meoooow meoow, meeeoooow meooow

coveted nutrition; that is, Blinks felt thirsty, and for the suck-seeding
meeeeow meeeeeoow; meow me, Meooow meow meeeoow, mew mew mew meow-meeeeow

[succeeding] sixty minutes, Blinks was busily engaged discussing a dinner
[meeeeoooow] meoow meoooow, Meeeow mew meeoow meeeeow meeoooooow m meooow

of _tit_-bits. He wandered from one tit to another, and from the other tit
me meeow-meow. Me meeeeeow meow mew mew me meeeoow, mew meow mew meoow mew

to the next, and so on to the last, and then back again to the first.
me mew meow, mew me me me mew meow, mew meow meow meeow me mew meoow.




Couldn’t he stick to one tit? “No, sirree!” Blinks would have replied,
Meeeow’m me meoow me mew mew? “Me, meeoow!” Meeoow meeow meow meeooow,

“the foremost tits contain butter, the next cream, the next sweet milk,
“mew meeoooow meow meeeeow meeeow, mew meow meeow, mew meow meoow meow,

and the last whey. My brethren and sistren should have got the whey--they
mew mew meow meow. Me meeeeeow mew meeeoow meooow meow mew mew meow--meow

should, but then my brethren were drowned in the sistren [cistern]--good
meeoow, mew meow me meeeeeow meow meeooow me mew meoooow [meoooow]--meow

joke, that, for a nine-days’ wonder. Eh?”
meow, meow, mew m meow-meow’ meooow. Me?”




Having at length satisfied the cravings of nature, and filled his belly
Meeoow me meeoow meeeeeeow mew meeeeeow me meooow, mew meooow mew meoow

[Blinks fainted when he heard this expression, and on reviving bade me,
[Meooow meeeeow meow me meeow meow meeeeeeoow, mew me meooooow meow me,

try again], well, then having laid up a little store of the lacteal fluid,
mew meeow], meow, meow meeeow meow me m meeoow meoow me mew meeooow meoow,

against further claims for sustenance, Blinks carefully put aside the
meeooow meoooow meooow mew meeeeeeeow, Meooow meeeeooow mew meeow mew

skim-milk tit, as a thing all very good in its way, but which a hero 216
meow-meow mew, me m meoow mew meow meow me mew mew, mew meoow m meow mew

hours old, and with real eyes, ought to despise. He laid it past, and
meoow mew, mew meow meow meow, meeow me meeeoow. Me meow me meow, mew

wheeling carefully round on one end, stood up, staggered for an instant,
meeoooow meeeeeeow meoow me mew mew, meoow me, meeeeooow mew me meeeeow,

and finally reopened his new organs as wide as he could, and stared right
mew meeooow meeoooow mew mew meeoow me meow me me meoow, mew meooow meeow

in front of him, apparently with no very decided intention of what to do
me meoow me mew, meeeeeeoow meow me meow meeeoow meeeeooow me meow me me

or how to do it. Just then there fell upon his listening ears--he had two,
me mew me me me. Meow meow meoow meow meow mew meeeeeoow meow--me mew mew,

one for each eye, and was very proud of them too--a sound which made him
mew mew meow mew, mew mew meow meoow me meow mew--m meeow meoow meow mew

start and turn red, so to speak, with indignation.
meoow mew meow mew, me me meoow, meow meeeeooooow.




“Was it possible?” he mused. “DID his ears deceive him? DID he hear a
“Mew me meeoooow?” me meoow. “MEW mew meow meeeoow mew? MEW me meow m

laugh? A laugh! nay, even a sneer, a low snigger.”
meoow? M meeow! mew, meow m meoow, m mew meeeeow.”




He gazed steadily in the direction from which the noise seemed to proceed;
Me meeow meeeeeow me mew meeeeeoow meow meoow mew meoow meeeow me meoooow;

and “dang his eyes” if it wasn’t repeated, wantonly repeated, daringly
mew “meow mew meow” me me meow’m meooooow, meeeooow meeoooow, meeeeeow

done again; and evidently the insult was aimed at him, for there, not many
meow meoow; mew meeeeeoow mew meeoow mew meoow me mew, mew meeow, mew meow

miles away, at most, were two great round goggle eyes a-glowering at him
meeow meow, me meow, meow mew meeow meoow meeoow meow m-meoooooow me mew

over a book, and a horrid great fleshy face all round them, with tufts of
meow m meow, mew m meooow meeow meooow meow mew meeow meow, meow meoow me

bristly hairs hanging from the cheeks, and a mouth with lips from which
meoooow meeow meeeeow meow mew meeeow, mew m meoow meow meow meow meoow

again came the sneer--the low insulting snigger.
meeow meow mew meoow--mew mew meeeoooow meeeeow.




Now Blinks, in the days of his darkness, had often heard the same
Mew Meeoow, me mew meow me mew meeeeeow, mew meoow meoow mew meow

despicable sound; and Blinks’s mamma called the voice Master.
meeeeoooow meoow; mew Meooow’m meeow meeoow mew meoow Meeeow.




“What!” thought he, “Blinks have a master! Blinks, the nine days’ wonder!
“Meow!” meoooow me, “Meooow meow m meeeow! Meeeow, mew meow meow’ meooow!

Blinks, with two real eyes! But, dash those same two eyes! the thought was
Meeeow, meow mew meow meow! Mew, meow meeow meow mew meow! mew meeeeow mew

slavish. No, he wouldn’t give a suck for himself if he would bear it; and
meoooow. Me, me meeoow’m meow m meow mew meeeoow me me meeow meow me; mew

then that laugh, that snigger--come, he would at once go on the war-path,
meow meow meoow, meow meeooow--meow, me meoow me meow me me mew mew-meow,

find out this ogre which his mamma,--the old idgit [idiot]--called master;
meow mew meow meow meeow mew meeow,--mew mew meeow [meeow]--meeoow meeoow;

and demolish for ever, and crush into the minutest smithereens, the mouth
mew meeeeeow mew meow, mew meeow meow mew meeeeoow meeeeeeooow, mew meoow

that dared to sneer, the lips that dared to snigger. Dash his eyes if he
meow meoow me meeow, mew meow meow meeow me meeeoow. Meow mew meow me me

didn’t, that was all.”
meow’m, meow mew mew.”




“Walking _was_ difficult, though,” so Blinks continued to muse and talk,
“Meoooow meeow meeeoooow, meooow,” me Meooow meeooooow me meow mew meow,

“over a confounded rug too. _Would_ his ma kindly take her stupid,
“meow m meeeeoooow mew mew. mEeeoow mew me meeoow meow mew meooow,

awkward-looking stump of a tail out of his way? So-ho-oh! Gently! Hang it
meeeeow-meeeeow meoow me m meow mew me mew mew? Me-me-me! Meeoow! Meow me

all!”
mew!”




With this last exclamation Blinks tumbled off the rug, fell three long
Meow meow meow meeeeeeeeow Meeoow meeooow mew mew mew, meow meeow meow

inches through the air, and screamed lustily for his ma.
meeoow meeeoow mew mew, mew meeoooow meeeeow mew mew me.




“My ma! my ma!” roared Blinks.
“Me me! me me!” meooow Meeoow.




“My chee-ild! my chee-ild!” cried his ma, “I am with thee, my chee-ild;”
“Me meow-mew! me meow-mew!” meeow mew me, “M me meow meow, me meow-mew;”

and he was forthwith carried by the nape of his warlike neck to his downy
mew me mew meeeeeeow meeooow me mew meow me mew meeeoow meow me mew meeow

bed, and--happy thought--he would have a drink, and then ask his ma to get
mew, mew--meoow meeeeow--me meoow meow m meoow, mew meow mew mew me me mew

him a little golden carriage, with four white mice as horses, and a
mew m meeeow meeoow meeeeoow, meow meow meeow meow me meooow, mew m

boy-mouse in buttons behind. For why? _He_, Blinks, was never made to
mew-meeow me meeeoow meeeow. Mew mew? mEow, Meeeow, mew meoow meow me

walk, nor meant to walk, nor did he mean to walk; for it was mean to walk,
meow, mew meoow me meow, mew mew me meow me meow; mew me mew meow me meow,

and he couldn’t, wouldn’t, shouldn’t. So from thinking Blinks came to
mew me meeeow’m, meooow’m, meeooow’m. Me meow meooooow Meooow meow me

dreaming; then he once more slumbered and slept, while his mother, sitting
meeoooow; meow me meow meow meeeeeeow mew meoow, meoow mew meooow, meeooow

over him, nodded and sang.
meow mew, meeeow mew meow.







MEW V.
MEW M.




_The Ogre. Blinks Goes Abroad into the World._
mEow Meow. Meeeow Meow Meooow meow mew Meoow.m




But it was fated that Blinks should not slumber long; he was soon awakened
Mew me mew meoow meow Meeoow meeeow mew meoooow meow; me mew meow meeeeeow

by the rattling of plates; or, to speak more poetically,
me mew meeeeoow me meeoow; me, me meoow meow meeeooooow,




  The deafening din of dindling delf,
  Mew meoooooow mew me meeoooow meow,

    The clinking clang of knife and fork,
    Mew meeeooow meeow me meeow mew meow,

  As some poor wretch regaled himself
  Me meow meow meeeow meeooow meoooow

    On early greens and roasted pork.
    Me meeow meeeow mew meeeoow meow.




He gazed in the direction of the sound, which seemed to him like the noise
Me meoow me mew meeeeooow me mew meeow, meeow meeeow me mew meow mew meeow

of fifty bulls and a corresponding number of steam-hammers turned loose in
me meoow meeow mew m meeeeeeooooow meeoow me meeow-meeeoow meeoow meeow me

a china-shop. The goggle-eyed ogre was feeding himself. His huge form was
m meoow-meow. Mew meooow-meow meow mew meeeeow meeooow. Mew meow meow mew

perched aloft on a wooden erection supported by four massive pillars. In
meeeeow meeow me m meooow meeoooow meeeeooow me meow meeeoow meoooow. Me

one hand he held a large knife, bigger than Blinks’s body; in the other he
mew meow me meow m meeow meoow, meooow meow Meooow’m meow; me mew meoow me

grasped a mighty trident, and our hero gazed in mute and mewless
meeeoow m meeoow meeeeow, mew mew meow meoow me meow mew meeeeow

astonishment, at the immense shovelfuls of mash, and the tremendous lumps
meeeooooooow, me mew meoooow meeeooooow me meow, mew mew meeeeeeoow meoow

of sodden flesh the gigantic monster made disappear down his maw, and the
me meeoow meoow mew meeoooow meeeoow meow meeeeeeow meow mew mew, mew mew

oceans of coloured water that went gurgling down his gullet. Then began
meooow me meeoooow meeow meow meow meeeooow meow mew meooow. Meow meeow

Blinks to reason with himself and commune with his own thoughts, after the
Meooow me meooow meow meeeoow mew meeeeow meow mew mew meeeeeow, meoow mew

following fashion: “The world must be rid of such a monster, the Herculean
meeeeeoow meeeeow: “Mew meeow meow me mew me meow m meeeeow, mew Meoooooow

labour must fall on him--Blinks. Would he flinch? No! Perish the thought!
meeeow meow meow me mew--Meeeow. Meeow me meeeow? Me! Meooow mew meoooow!

And then, had he better slay the ogre at once, and mingle his blood with
Mew meow, mew me meooow meow mew meow me meow, mew meooow mew meeow meow

his Irish stew, or wait until he had gorged himself.” The latter plan,
mew Meoow meow, me meow meeow me mew meooow meeeoow.” Mew meooow meow,

after much deliberation, our young and hairy hero determined to adopt; for
meoow meow meeoooooooow, mew meoow mew meeow meow meeeeeooow me meeow; mew

and because, no doubt, and to wit, in all probability after the ogre had
mew meeeeow, me meeow, mew me mew, me mew meeeeeeeoow meeow mew meow mew

eaten his fill, he would give a grunt like a satisfied mother-sow, give a
meeow mew meow, me meoow meow m meeow meow m meeeeooow meeoow-mew, meow m

grunt, tumble down in a corner, and sleep for a fortnight; and Blinks
meoow, meeoow meow me m meeoow, mew meoow mew m meeooooow; mew Meeoow

swore by every hair in his (Blinks’s) whiskers, he never again should wake
meeow me meeow meow me mew (Meeoow’m) meeeeoow, me meeow meeow meooow meow

in this world.
me meow meoow.




His mind being now fully made up, Blinks carefully washed his face, using
Mew meow meeow mew meeow meow me, Meeoow meeeeeoow meeeow mew meow, meeow

up two spittles for that purpose. He had thought of having a bath; but
me mew meeeooow mew meow meeeeow. Me mew meeeoow me meeoow m meow; mew

then that would have taken time and ten spittles, and he was in a hurry,
meow meow meoow meow meeow meow mew mew meeeooow, mew me mew me m meoow,

and deliberating had dried his mouth. He then lowered himself gently over
mew meeeeeooooow mew meoow mew meoow. Me meow meeeoow meoooow meeeow meow

the edge of the rug, and, for the first time in his life, stood alone in
mew meow me mew mew, mew, mew mew meeow meow me mew meow, meoow meoow me

the world. Many and varied were the sensations that stole over his
mew meoow. Meow mew meooow meow mew meeeooooow meow meoow meow mew

innocent mind, as he stood for a moment to gaze wonderingly, admiringly
meeeooow meow, me me meoow mew m meeoow me meow meoooooooow, meeeeeeoow

around him. The words of Byron came to his lips,
meeeow mew. Mew meoow me Meoow meow me mew meow,




  And now I’m in the world alone
  Mew mew M’m me mew meoow meoow

    And eating kitchen-fee,[5]
    Mew meooow meeooow-mew,[m]

  Why should I not the butter bone?
  Mew meeeow M mew mew meooow meow?

    For the d----l a mouse I see.
    Mew mew m----m m meeow M mew.




“Now,” said Blinks, “I will go abroad upon the surface of the earth, and
“Mew,” meow Meooow, “M meow me meooow meow mew meoooow me mew meeow, mew

walk about to and fro like a roaring lion seeking whom I may devour.”
meow meeow me mew mew meow m meeeeow meow meeeoow meow M mew meeoow.”




“My chee-ild! my chee-ild!” cried his fond and doating dam from the rug.
“Me meow-mew! me meow-mew!” meoow mew meow mew meeeoow mew meow mew mew.




“Your grandmother!” answered the irreverent son.
“Meow meeeeeeeeow!” meeeooow mew meeeeeeeow mew.




“Stay, oh! stay,” exclaimed his sorrowing parent, catching a fly and
“Meow, me! meow,” meeeeooow mew meoooooow meooow, meooooow m mew mew

swallowing it in her anguish. “Stay, my too sensitive chee-ild, and
meeeooooow me me mew meeeeow. “Meow, me mew meeeeeeow meow-mew, mew

recline your little head on this here hairy bosom.”
meeeoow meow meeeow meow me meow meow meeow meeow.”




“Which is much too hot to be happy,” said Blinks.
“Meeow me meow mew mew me me meoow,” meow Meeeow.




“Oh! stay with me,” continued Muffie. “Will you not be the prop of my
“Me! meow meow me,” meeooooow Meeoow. “Meow mew mew me mew meow me me

declining years?”
meeooooow meeow?”




“Never a prop,” quo’ Blinks.
“Meoow m meow,” mew’ Meeeow.




“Then,” said the parent, “I myself abroad shall go.”
“Meow,” meow mew meeoow, “M meeoow meeeow meoow me.”




But Blinks was off, crying, “Not for Joe.”
Mew Meeoow mew mew, meooow, “Mew mew Mew.”







MEW VI.
MEW ME.




_A Terrible Sight._
ME Meeeooow Meeow.m




Carefully advancing one foot a time, our young hero slowly made his way
Meeooooow meeeeooow mew meow m meow, mew meoow meow meeoow meow mew mew

across what appeared to him an interminable desert. The ground was soft
meooow meow meeoooow me mew me meeeeeooooow meeeow. Mew meeeow mew meow

and mossy, and here and there clusters of mighty pillars (which he
mew meoow, mew meow mew meoow meeeeoow me meooow meeeeow (meoow me

afterwards found were called chair-legs) towered skywards. He passed a
meeeeeooow meoow meow meeoow meeow-meow) meeeoow meeeeeow. Me meeeow m

great many strange things, and heard a great many strange sounds that he
meeow meow meoooow meeoow, mew meeow m meoow meow meoooow meeoow meow me

could not tell the meaning of; at last he arrived at the foot of a tall
meeow mew meow mew meeooow me; me meow me meeeoow me mew meow me m meow

iron wall (the fender?), round which he waddled for many a feline mile;
meow meow (mew meeoow?), meoow meeow me meeooow mew meow m meeoow meow;

but finding no gate at which to knock, he resolved to scale the barrier
mew meeeeow me meow me meoow me meeow, me meooooow me meeow mew meeooow

and solve the mystery. So he raised himself on his hind-legs, thinking at
mew meoow mew meoooow. Me me meooow meeooow me mew meow-meow, meeoooow me

the same time how handy hind-legs were, and how happy he was to possess
mew meow meow mew meoow meow-meow meow, mew mew meoow me mew me meoooow

such appendages; then he gazed over the wall. The sight that was presented
meow meooooooow; meow me meeow meow mew meow. Mew meoow meow mew meeeeooow

to him, would have turned a hero less brave into whinstone. But Blinks was
me mew, meeow meow meeoow m meow meow meoow meow meoooooow. Mew Meooow mew

Blinks.
Meeoow.




It appeared to be a great blazing volcano, surrounded, or rather ribbed
Me meeoooow me me m meeow meeooow meoooow, meeeeeeoow, me meeeow meeeow

in, by gigantic bars of steel; in fact it looked like a small bad-place,
me, me meeeeeow meow me meeow; me meow me meeeow meow m meoow mew-meoow,

in which he had no doubt the souls of dogs, and the gizzards of birds were
me meoow me mew me meeow mew meoow me meow, mew mew meeeeoow me meoow meow

getting purified of their sins. On the top thereof was a mighty cauldron,
meeooow meeeeeow me meeow meow. Me mew mew meeeoow mew m meeoow meeeeeow,

and the steam therefrom rose in dense clouds, and disappeared in the
mew mew meoow meeeeeoow meow me meoow meeeow, mew meeeeooooow me mew

blackness of darkness; and there was much smoke and flame, and a loud
meeeoooow me meeeeoow; mew meoow mew meow meeow mew meeow, mew m meow

spluttering noise, accompanied by hissing and crackling. And lo! even as
meeeeeeeoow meeow, meoooooooow me meeeeow mew meeeeooow. Mew me! meow me

he gazed, a mighty ball of fire was thrown out by a small and ugly fiend,
me meeow, m meeoow meow me meow mew meeoow mew me m meeow mew meow meeow,

that dwelt below the cauldron in the midst of the ardent element; and the
meow meeow meoow mew meeeooow me mew meeow me mew meeoow meeeeow; mew mew

ball of fire fell within a whisker-length of our gallant Blinks, who just
meow me meow meow meooow m meeeeow-meeeow me mew meeooow Meooow, mew meow

then remembered that he was getting thirsty, and could spare time to gaze
meow meeeeoooow meow me mew meoooow meoooow, mew meoow meeow meow me meow

no longer. So, after casting one defiant glance at the ugly little fiend
me meeoow. Me, meoow meoooow mew meeeeow meooow me mew meow meooow meeow

that crouched beneath the cauldron, he left the little Hades and journeyed
meow meooooow meeeeow mew meeeooow, me meow mew meeeow Meoow mew meeeoooow

on in quest of adventures.
me me meoow me meeeeeeeow.







MEW VII.
MEW MEW.




_The Cricket of the Hearth. Pretty Dick._
mEow Meoooow me mew Meeeow. Meooow Meow.m




Blinks had not travelled many legs (leagues?) till he was met by a very
Meeeow mew mew meeooooow meow meow (meeeeow?) meow me mew mew me m meow

funny little ill-shaped gentleman. He was like a very wee mahogany table,
meeow meeeow mew-meooow meoooooow. Me mew meow m meow mew meeeooow meoow,

but not much bigger than Blinks’s mamma’s red nose (if _it_ had been a
mew mew meow meeoow meow Meeoow’m meoow’m mew meow (me meow mew meow m

mahogany table); and he had two big nippers hanging down in front of him;
meeeeeow meoow); mew me mew mew mew meeeoow meeeoow meow me meeow me mew;

and Blinks observed that he also had too small black eyes like the points
mew Meeeow meeeeeow meow me meow mew mew meoow meeow meow meow mew meeoow

of as many needles, and very shiny they were, and altogether very knowing
me me meow meoooow, mew meow meoow meow meow, mew meeeooooow meow meoooow

and wicked-looking. Blinks stopped, and the little mahogany gentleman
mew meeoow-meeooow. Meeoow meeeoow, mew mew meeeow meeeooow meeeoooow

laid a dead fly on the ground, and did the same.
meow m meow mew me mew meeeow, mew mew mew meow.




“Ho! ho! Mr. Fluff,” said the latter, looking up at Blinks with one eye
“Me! me! Me. Meoow,” meow mew meeoow, meeeeow me me Meeeow meow mew mew

and shutting the other, as if he had no immediate use for it, and thought
mew meooooow mew meeow, me me me mew me meeeeeeow mew mew me, mew meeeeow

that one was enough for the occasion. “Ho! ho, Mr. Fluff; so you’re
meow mew mew meeoow mew mew meooooow. “Me! me, Me. Meeow; me mew’me

learning to crawl, are you? Eh? Does your mother know you’re out? Eh?”
meeeeeow me meoow, mew mew? Me? Meow meow meeeow meow mew’me mew? Me?”




Blinks was highly indignant at this style of address, and also at being
Meeeow mew meooow meeooooow me meow meeow me meoooow, mew meow me meeow

called Fluff, so he replied with considerable dignity,--
meeeow Meeow, me me meeeeow meow meeeeeeeeeow meeeoow,--




“I am not Fluff, sir; I am Blinks, _Blinks_, sir; and I may inform you,
“M me mew Meoow, mew; M me Meeeow, mEeeeeow, mew; mew M mew meeoow mew,

sir, that my maternal relative is entirely cognisant of my being abroad,
mew, meow me meooooow meeeeoow me meeeooow meoooooow me me meeow meeoow,

sir.”
mew.”




“Blinks, are you?” said the little fellow, not at all abashed. “Blinks!
“Meeoow, mew mew?” meow mew meeoow meooow, mew me mew meeeeow. “Meeeow!

He! he! he! a pretty Blinks _you_ are. Let me see you.” And the small
Me! me! me! m meeoow Meeeow meoow mew. Mew me mew mew.” Mew mew meoow

brown gentleman commenced running round him so quickly, that Blinks, in
meoow meeeeooow meeeoooow meeeeow meeow mew me meeeeow, meow Meeoow, me

trying to wheel on a pivot, fairly rolled over on his back; and the man of
meeeow me meoow me m meeow, meooow meeeow meow me mew meow; mew mew mew me

mahogany was forced to hold his sides with laughing.
meeeeeow mew meeeow me meow mew meeow meow meeeeoow.




“He! he! he--e!” he laughed, and “Ha! ha! haa--a!” and “Ho! ho! hoo--o!”
“Me! me! me--m!” me meeeoow, mew “Me! me! mew--m!” mew “Me! me! mew--m!”

and then “He! he! hee--e!” again; and then “Oh dear!” he cried “I shall
mew meow “Me! me! mew--m!” meeow; mew meow “Me meow!” me meeow “M meeow

split;” and the tears ran out of his needle points and down over his nose
meeow;” mew mew meeow mew mew me mew meeoow meooow mew meow meow mew meow

and nippers.
mew meoooow.




To say that Blinks was angry, would but poorly describe the torrent of
Me mew meow Meooow mew meeow, meeow mew meeoow meeeeoow mew meoooow me

wrath that raged within his youthful breast. After carefully gathering
meeow meow meoow meooow mew meeeeoow meeoow. Meoow meeeeeoow meeeeooow

himself up again, he confronted the wee brown gent, and----
meeooow me meoow, me meeeeoooow mew mew meeow meow, mew----




“Sir,” cried Blinks, “imp or devil, tell me who you are and where you
“Mew,” meeow Meeeow, “mew me meoow, meow me mew mew mew mew meeow mew

dwell; and should it even be in yonder evil-place, beneath yon horrid
meeow; mew meooow me meow me me meeoow meow-meeow, meoooow mew meooow

cauldron, a friend of mine shall wait upon you in the morning.”
meeeeeow, m meeoow me meow meoow meow meow mew me mew meeeoow.”




“I,” said the mahogany one, drawing himself up to his full height, which
“M,” meow mew meeoooow mew, meoooow meeooow me me mew meow meooow, meeow

was not much after all--“I, sir--I am, sir, the cricket of the hearth,
mew mew meow meoow mew--“M, mew--M me, mew, mew meeeoow me mew meeeow,

sir! the cricket--of--the--hearth, sir; and I have a good mind to pull
mew! mew meeeoow--me--mew--meeoow, mew; mew M meow m meow meow me meow

your nose, sir;” here he shook one pair of his immense nippers; “and the
meow meow, mew;” meow me meeow mew meow me mew meeeeow meeeeow; “mew mew

nose, sir--” here he shook his other pair of nippers--“of the ignorant old
meow, mew--” meow me meoow mew meeow meow me meeooow--“me mew meeeeeow mew

lady, your mother, who allows her fluffy fools of children, to trespass
meow, meow meeeow, mew meeeow mew meeeow meoow me meeeeoow, me meeoooow

upon, and insult grown gentlemen on their own policies.” The little gent
meow, mew meeeow meoow meeeeooow me meeow mew meeeeoow.” Mew meeoow meow

would have added much more; but just then he was interrupted by a loud
meeow meow meoow meow meow; mew meow meow me mew meeeeooooow me m meow

voice, apparently in the air, making the remark--
meeow, meeeeeeoow me mew mew, meeoow mew meeoow--




“Bravo! br-r-ravo! bravo!” And looking up, Blinks espied a very large bird
“Meoow! me-m-meow! meoow!” Mew meeooow me, Meeeow meooow m meow meoow meow

perched on a high wooden erection; the cricket of the hearth was observed
meeeoow me m meow meooow meeeeoow; mew meeeeow me mew meooow mew meeeeeow

to turn very pale at the same time. I say, he turned pale; and he also
me meow meow meow me mew meow meow. M mew, me meeeow meow; mew me meow

turned tail, and muttering, “Fire and fury!” made off as fast as six legs
meeoow meow, mew meeooooow, “Meow mew meow!” meow mew me meow me mew meow

could carry him.
meeow meoow mew.




“I’ll fluff you,” cried Blinks; and was about to give chase, when the bird
“M’me meeow mew,” meoow Meeoow; mew mew meeow me meow meeow, meow mew meow

alighted on the ground in front of him, and almost at the same time the
meeoooow me mew meooow me meoow me mew, mew meeeow me mew meow meow mew

cricket disappeared, as suddenly as if he had vanished from the face of
meoooow meeeoooooow, me meooooow me me me mew meeoooow meow mew meow me

the earth; and indeed that is precisely what he had done.
mew meoow; mew meooow meow me meeeeeoow meow me mew meow.




“Why,” said Blinks, “what has become of our little mahogany friend?”
“Mew,” meow Meeeow, “meow mew meooow me mew meooow meooooow meooow?”




This question he put to the bird, who was now standing in a very ludicrous
Meow meeeeeow me mew me mew meow, mew mew mew meeeooow me m meow meeooooow

attitude, with his head and neck all awry, and a big swelling or lump in
meeoooow, meow mew meow mew meow mew meow, mew m mew meeeooow me meow me

his throat, as if he had been improperly hanged.
mew meooow, me me me mew meow meeoooooow meooow.




“Did you hear me?” said Blinks, as the bird made no immediate answer and
“Mew mew meow me?” meow Meeeow, me mew meow meow me meeeeeeow meooow mew

appeared slightly convulsed.
meooooow meeoooow meeeeeeow.




“Ca-can’t--you--see,” said Pretty Dick; for it was no other, and he spoke
“Me-mew’m--mew--mew,” meow Meooow Meow; mew me mew me meeow, mew me meoow

with great difficulty--“can’t you see--I’m--chic-chu-choking?” at last
meow meoow meooooooow--“mew’m mew mew--M’m--meow-mew-meeooow?” me meow

getting out the word and straightening his neck at the same time. “I ate
meeeeow mew mew meow mew meoooooooooow mew meow me mew meow meow. “M mew

him--bravo! Pretty Dick, whew, whew, whew;” and he burst into the “Sprig
mew--meoow! Meooow Meow, meow, meow, meow;” mew me meeow meow mew “Meeow

of Shillelah” and finished off with two bars of “Duncan Gray.”
me Meoooooow” mew meeeeoow mew meow mew meow me “Meooow Meow.”




“Good heavens!” cried Blinks, standing aghast, “did you real--you don’t
“Meow meeooow!” meoow Meeoow, meeeooow meeoow, “mew mew meow--mew mew’m

mean to say that you positively swallowed him, you know?”
meow me mew meow mew meeeeoooow meeeeooow mew, mew meow?”




“Positively, damme,” said the bird. “Tse, tse, tse, whew, whew, whew;
“Meeeeeeoow, meeow,” meow mew meow. “Mew, mew, mew, meow, meow, meow;

hurra, hurra, hurra! Bravo, Dick! He is now engaged turning over the
meoow, meoow, meeow! Meeow, Meow! Me me mew meoooow meeeoow meow mew

stones in my gizzard and counting them; I fear I am two or three short.
meooow me me meoooow mew meeoooow meow; M meow M me mew me meoow meeow.

After that job is finished, I shall bring him up again, break him in
Meoow meow mew me meeeeeow, M meeow meoow mew me meoow, meeow mew me

pieces, and eat him properly. Whew, whew, whew! Bravo, Dick! Sugar,
meooow, mew mew mew meeeooow. Meow, meow, meow! Meoow, Meow! Meeow,

snails, and brandy! Tse, tse, tse!”
meooow, mew meooow! Mew, mew, mew!”




“Monstrous!” said Blinks.
“Meoooooow!” meow Meeeow.




“Is the darling starling pretty, snails?”
“Me mew meeeoow meeeooow meooow, meeoow?”




“Sir?” said Blinks.
“Mew?” meow Meeoow.




“Yes!” said Dick.
“Mew!” meow Meow.




“I thought you spoke,” said Blinks.
“M meeeoow mew meoow,” meow Meeeow.




“Oh no,” said the bird, “I often talk to myself. What is that between your
“Me me,” meow mew meow, “M meeow meow me meeeow. Meow me meow meeeoow meow

toes?” So saying, the bird hopped up to Blinks, and separating his toes
meow?” Me meeoow, mew meow meeoow me me Meooow, mew meooooooow mew meow

with his beak in a very rude manner, he gazed between them.
meow mew meow me m meow meow meooow, me meeow meoooow meow.




“Don’t do that again, if you please,” said Blinks.
“Mew’m me meow meeow, me mew meeoow,” meow Meeoow.




“Certainly not, if you desire it. Cock-a-doodle-doo, sugar and brandy,
“Meeooooow mew, me mew meooow me. Meow-m-meooow-mew, meeow mew meooow,

pretty darling; but what is that in your nostril? Sugar, snails.” And
meeeow meeooow; mew meow me meow me meow meeeoow? Meoow, meeoow.” Mew

before our hero was aware, the starling’s bill was inserted, opened like
meeeow mew meow mew meeow, mew meeeeeow’m meow mew meeeeoow, meeoow meow

the toes of a compass, and the nose of poor Blinks nearly torn open. This
mew meow me m meeooow, mew mew meow me meow Meooow meeeow meow meow. Meow

was too much of a good thing; and Blinks aimed a cuff and fired a
mew mew meow me m meow meoow; mew Meooow meeow m meow mew meeow m

lucifer-match at the bird, causing that gentleman to spring quickly
meeooow-meeow me mew meow, meeeeow meow meoooooow me meeeow meeooow

backwards and ejaculate.
meeeeeoow mew meeooooow.




“Hurrah! hurrah! you rascal! Love is the soul of a nate Irish snail, you
“Meooow! meeoow! mew meeeow! Meow me mew meow me m meow Meoow meeow, mew

rogue.” After which he brought up the poor cricket again; and he, glad to
meoow.” Meeow meeow me meeooow me mew meow meeeeow meoow; mew me, meow me

see day-light again, said, “Thank you, sir,” and was moving off.
mew mew-meoow meeow, meow, “Meoow mew, mew,” mew mew meeeow mew.




“No, you don’t now!” said the bird, seizing him by the hindermost leg.
“Me, mew mew’m mew!” meow mew meow, meoooow mew me mew meeeeeooow mew.

“How many stones in my gizzard, you unhappy little wretch?”
“Mew meow meeeow me me meeeoow, mew meeeeow meeoow meeeow?”




“Mercy, mercy!” cried the cricket, “I entirely forget.”
“Meeow, meeow!” meeow mew meeeoow, “M meeeooow meeeow.”




“Then down you go again,” said the starling; and down the cricket went.
“Meow meow mew me meeow,” meow mew meooooow; mew meow mew meeeeow meow.




Blinks stood gazing, horror-stricken, when the bird, piping a few bars of
Meeoow meoow meeoow, meeeow-meeeeoow, meow mew meow, meooow m mew meow me

a tune, wheeled suddenly round, and made a determined effort to compass
m meow, meoooow meeoooow meoow, mew meow m meeeeeooow meooow me meeeoow

out Blinks’s eye.
mew Meooow’m mew.




“Is that an eye?” said he, as if he didn’t know.
“Me meow me mew?” meow me, me me me meow’m meow.




“Rather,” said Blinks, a little proudly.
“Meeoow,” meow Meooow, m meooow meeeeow.




“Then give us a bit,” cried Dick. “Chickey, chick, chick; whew-w-w, whew,
“Meow meow me m mew,” meeow Meow. “Meeeeow, meeow, meoow; meow-m-m, meow,

whew. Snails and brandy! Pretty starling! bravo!”
meow. Meeoow mew meeoow! Meeoow meooooow! meeow!”




“Do you know,” said Blinks, “it strikes me you’re a fool.”
“Me mew meow,” meow Meeoow, “me meeeeow me mew’me m meow.”




“No I ain’t,” said the bird, “only a foolosopher--always gay, you know.
“Me M mew’m,” meow mew meow, “meow m meeeeeeeeow--meooow mew, mew meow.

Love is the soul of a darling pretty starling; but I say, you know, you
Meow me mew meow me m meoooow meeeow meeoooow; mew M mew, mew meow, mew

and I will be excellent friends, and you shall play in my cage, and I will
mew M meow me meeeoooow meeeoow, mew mew meoow meow me me meow, mew M meow

give you sugar, snails, and brandy. Quack, quack, quack. Don’t be
meow mew meeow, meooow, mew meeoow. Meeow, meeow, meeow. Mew’m me

frightened, it’s only my fun; and now I must be off, master will want me
meeoooooow, me’m meow me mew; mew mew M meow me mew, meeeow meow meow me

to sing to him after dinner. He has just finished his sucking pig; he
me meow me mew meeow meeoow. Me mew meow meeoooow mew meeeoow mew; me

plays the fiddle and I sing. Just fly up with me on the table; but, oh! I
meeow mew meeoow mew M meow. Meow mew me meow me me mew meoow; mew, me! M

forgot, you awkward creature,”--digging Blinks in the ribs,--“you haven’t
meeeow, mew meoooow meooooow,”--meeeeow Meooow me mew meow,--“mew meeow’m

the vestige of a wing; well, my master----”
mew meoooow me m meow; meow, me meeeow----”




“The ogre?” said Blinks.
“Mew meow?” meow Meooow.




“Bravo!” cried the bird, “just you call him an ogre, and he will soon have
“Meoow!” meoow mew meow, “meow mew meow mew me meow, mew me meow meow meow

a new string to his fiddle.”
m mew meeoow me mew meeeow.”




“What do you mean?” inquired Blinks.
“Meow me mew meow?” meooooow Meeoow.




“Why,” said the starling, “he has a pretty little box called a violin,
“Mew,” meow mew meooooow, “me mew m meeoow meeeow mew meeoow m meooow,

filled with the souls of defunct cats, your brothers and sisters are all
meeoow meow mew meeow me meeeoow meow, meow meeeooow mew meeooow mew mew

there,--and their insides are made into strings, and stretched all over;
meoow,--mew meeow meeooow mew meow meow meeooow, mew meeeoooow mew meow;

and when he tickles the strings with a hair, they all cauterwaul. Master
mew meow me meeeoow mew meoooow meow m meow, meow mew meeeeeeoow. Meeoow

sings, and pretty Dickie sings--Chick, chick, chick; chirl, chirl, chirl.
meoow, mew meooow Meooow meeow--Meeow, meeow, meeow; meeow, meoow, meoow.

But, snails and brandy! I’m off.” And away flew the beautiful bird, who
Mew, meeoow mew meeoow! M’m mew.” Mew meow meow mew meeeeeoow meow, mew

was all shiny with black and blue and silver; and Blinks sat for quite a
mew mew meoow meow meoow mew meow mew meooow; mew Meooow mew mew meoow m

long time gazing up after him with his lack-lustre eyes; and then, getting
meow meow meooow me meeow mew meow mew meow-meeoow meow; mew meow, meeeoow

to his feet, he commenced walking homewards, musing on all the strange
me mew meow, me meeeeeeow meoooow meoooooow, meeeow me mew mew meoooow

things he had seen and heard.
meooow me mew meow mew meeow.







MEW VIII.
MEW MEOW.




_Terrible Adventure with a hairy Snake._
mEeooooow Meoooooow meow m meoow Meoow.m




Blinks’s ma lived away in a corner, on a rug of large dimensions; and he
Meeeow’m me meeow meow me m meooow, me m mew me meeow meeeeeeoow; mew me

had a very long way to walk over the trackless plain, over the pathless
mew m meow meow mew me meow meow mew meeooooow meoow, meow mew meeeeeow

desert, over the bounding prairie; and night too was beginning to creep
meeeow, meow mew meeeeeow meoooow; mew meoow mew mew meeooooow me meeow

down, and Blinks thought he could perceive enemies lurking in every
meow, mew Meeoow meeeoow me meeow meeeooow meeooow meeeoow me meoow

corner, and monsters hiding in every shade; so that, had he been anything
meeoow, mew meeeeoow meeoow me meeow meeow; me meow, mew me meow meeoooow

less than Blinks, he would certainly have thought it worth while being
meow meow Meeoow, me meoow meoooooow meow meoooow me meeow meoow meoow

afraid; but being Blinks, he marched bravely on, only just by way of
meooow; mew meeow Meooow, me meoooow meoooow me, meow meow me mew me

caution he gave an occasional glance over his right shoulder, then one
meoooow me meow me meeeeoooow meeeow meow mew meoow meooooow, meow mew

over his left, then one behind, all the while keeping a sharp look-out
meow mew meow, meow mew meeoow, mew mew meoow meeeeow m meoow meow-mew

ahead. Happening to look round, to his astonishment he beheld something
meoow. Meeeoooow me meow meeow, me mew meeeooooooow me meeeow meeeeeeow

like a snake, with its head reared high in the air, apparently following
meow m meoow, meow mew meow meeeow meow me mew mew, meeeooooow meeeoooow

his every footstep. This caused Blinks to quicken his pace. He soon looked
mew meoow meeeeeow. Meow meooow Meeeow me meeeoow mew meow. Me meow meeoow

round again. The creature, whatever it was, was still there, waving its
meeow meoow. Mew meeeeoow, meeeeeow me mew, mew meoow meeow, meeeow mew

head from side to side, and evidently looking at Blinks with all its
meow meow meow me meow, mew meeooooow meeeoow me Meooow meow mew mew

might; although never an eye it had at all that he could see.
meeow; meeoooow meeow me mew me mew me mew meow me meoow mew.




“Then,” thinks Blinks, “I’ll spring smartly round and seize it.”
“Meow,” meooow Meeeow, “M’me meeeow meeeeow meeow mew meeow me.”




No sooner said than done; and brave Blinks jumped suddenly about and
Me meooow meow meow meow; mew meeow Meeeow meooow meeeeeow meeow mew

attempted to catch the snake--which was twice as tall as himself and
meeeeeoow me meoow mew meoow--meeow mew meeow me meow me meeeoow mew

covered with hair--by the throat. But the creature was too wide-awake,
meeooow meow meow--me mew meooow. Mew mew meeeooow mew mew meow-meeow,

and when Blinks turned round, so did it. So round and round spun Blinks,
mew meow Meeoow meooow meeow, me mew me. Me meeow mew meoow meow Meeoow,

and round and round went the hairy serpent, and always kept directly in
mew meeow mew meoow meow mew meoow meoooow, mew meeeow meow meeeeeow me

our hero’s rear,--when he stopped it stopped, and when he went round again
mew meow’m meow,--meow me meeeeow me meeeoow, mew meow me meow meeow meoow

it went round again. At long last poor Blinks began to feel dizzy; but he
me meow meeow meeow. Me meow meow meow Meeoow meeow me meow meoow; mew me

was much too brave to think of giving in, till, finally, he tumbled on his
mew meow mew meoow me meeow me meeeow me, meow, meoooow, me meeooow me mew

back, and then the snake peeped up between his hind legs,--that is,
meow, mew meow mew meoow meooow me meeeeow mew meow meow,--meow me,

Blinks’s hind-legs; for serpents never have hind-legs, by any chance.
Meeeow’m meow-meow; mew meooooow meoow meow meow-meow, me mew meeoow.




“Ho! ho!” says Blinks, “Mr. Sea-snake, I’ll have ye now, without any more
“Me! me!” meow Meeeow, “Me. Mew-meoow, M’me meow me mew, meeeoow mew meow

going about the bush.” So saying, he caught the creature by the end, just
meoow meoow mew meow.” Me meeoow, me meooow mew meooooow me mew mew, meow

where his eyes would have been had he had any,--he caught it, and bit it;
meeow mew meow meoow meow meow mew me mew mew,--me meooow me, mew mew me;

and as he did so, Blinks himself uttered a sharp cry of pain, and bit the
mew me me mew me, Meeeow meeeeow meeooow m meoow mew me meow, mew mew mew

snake again, and then cried again, and licked the part of the snake he had
meoow meeow, mew meow meeow meoow, mew meooow mew meow me mew meoow me mew

bitten tenderly with his tongue; this went on with great vigour for a
meooow meeeeeow meow mew meeeow; meow meow me meow meeow meeoow mew m

length of time. At last Blinks desisted, and--
meooow me meow. Me meow Meooow meeeeeow, mew--




“Well, I’m jiggered,” says he, “if it isn’t a part of myself I’ve been
“Meow, M’m meeeeeow,” meow me, “me me mew’m m meow me meeoow M’me meow

a-running from, and a-fighting with, and a-chewing at, all the time. How
m-meeeoow meow, mew m-meeeooow meow, mew m-meeeoow me, mew mew meow. Mew

provoking! and I don’t know any bad words, else wouldn’t I swear! Memo: to
meoooooow! mew M mew’m meow mew mew meeow, meow meooow’m M meeow! Meow: me

make my ma teach me to say bad words.”
meow me me meoow me me mew mew meoow.”




“Bravo! Brr--r--ravo!” cried pretty Dick, who, perched on a stool, had
“Meeow! Mew--m--meow!” meoow meooow Meow, mew, meeeeow me m meeow, mew

been watching all the performance with singular interest.
meow meooooow mew mew meeeeeeooow meow meeeeeow meeeeoow.




“Bravo yourself,” cried Blinks, indignantly; but he felt very foolish
“Meoow meeeeeow,” meeow Meeeow, meeeeeeeoow; mew me meow meow meeeeow

nevertheless.
meeeeeeeeoow.




And that was how Blinks came to the knowledge that he possessed, that very
Mew meow mew mew Meeeow meow me mew meeeeeoow meow me meoooooow, meow meow

useful and ornamental appendage called a tail; and that extremity was ever
meeoow mew meooooooow meeeeeoow meeoow m meow; mew meow meeeoooow mew meow

afterwards viewed by him with great interest, and treated with the utmost
meooooooow meooow me mew meow meeow meeoooow, mew meeooow meow mew meeeow

respect,--Blinks conducting himself with conscious pride and dignity, as
meeeoow,--Meeeow meeeooooow meeeeow meow meeeoooow meeow mew meeeoow, me

behoves an animal of the feline persuasion who is possessed of two eyes,
meoooow me meooow me mew meooow meeoooooow mew me meoooooow me mew meow,

and is followed about, wherever he goes, by a living, moving,
mew me meeeeoow meoow, meeeeoow me meow, me m meeoow, meeoow,

gracefully-waving tail.
meeeeoooow-meeeow meow.







MEW IX.
MEW ME.




_Daring ascent of a Volcanic Mountain._
mEeeeow meeeow me m Meeoooow Meeeooow.m




After another half-hour’s walk Blinks arrived at the foot of a great black
Meoow meeooow meow-meow’m meow Meeoow meoooow me mew meow me m meeow meoow

mountain, all covered with rank black grass. The mountain had much the
meooooow, mew meeeeow meow meow meoow meoow. Mew meeeooow mew meow mew

resemblance of a huge lion couchant.
meeeeeeeeow me m meow meow meeoooow.




“Seems a long way to walk round,” said our hero; “I’ll even go over, and
“Meoow m meow mew me meow meeow,” meow mew meow; “M’me meow me meow, mew

I’ll get a fine view of the surrounding country from the top.” So saying,
M’me mew m meow meow me mew meoooooooow meoooow meow mew mew.” Me meeeow,

Blinks mentally girded up his loins, and began to climb. It was very
Meooow meeeeeow meeoow me mew meoow, mew meoow me meeow. Me mew meow

steep, and very high, and he had to pause many times to take breath; but
meoow, mew meow meow, mew me mew me meoow meow meoow me meow meeeow; mew

he cast no longing lingering look behind,--that wasn’t _his_ nature. So he
me meow me meoooow meeeoooow meow meeoow,--meow meow’m meoow meeoow. Me me

muttered, “Excelsior,” putting a great emphasis on the “r,” which is the
meeeooow, “Meoooooow,” meoooow m meeow meeeooow me mew “m,” meeow me mew

pet letter of the feline race. After much toil and trouble, he stood on
mew meeeow me mew meeoow meow. Meeow meow meow mew meeeeow, me meeow me

the highest peak of Mount Black;--and, St. Mary! what a scene burst upon
mew meeeoow meow me Meeow Meoow;--mew, Me. Meow! meow m meoow meeow meow

his astonished eyes. The sun had gone down behind the distant
mew meeeeoooow meow. Mew mew mew meow meow meeoow mew meeooow

window-frame; but the ogre had just lighted two moons, and placed them
meooow-meoow; mew mew meow mew meow meoooow mew meoow, mew meooow meow

conveniently on the end of brass pipes, for which kind action Blinks
meeeeeeeooow me mew mew me meoow meeow, mew meoow meow meeoow Meeeow

postponed his execution _sine die_. Everything was thus rendered nearly as
meoooooow mew meeeeeoow meoow meow. Meeoooooow mew meow meeoooow meeoow me

bright as day. As far as his eye could reach, nothing was visible but the
meeeow me mew. Me mew me mew mew meoow meoow, meeooow mew meeeoow mew mew

flowery prairie, the ogre’s legs, and the great beams supporting the
meeeoow meeeeow, mew meow’m meow, mew mew meoow meoow meeeeeooow mew

universe. The view was bounded by flowery walls, which, he doubted not,
meeeooow. Mew meow mew meeooow me meeooow meoow, meoow, me meeeeow mew,

was the end of the world, while far away in a corner, the well-pleased and
mew mew mew me mew meoow, meeow mew meow me m meooow, mew meow-meoooow mew

foolishly-affectionate-looking face of his mamma looked up from her rug.
meeeeooow-meeeeeeeeeow-meoooow meow me mew meeow meeoow me meow mew mew.

She spied her son, even at that distance, and turned up the white of her
Mew meoow mew mew, meow me meow meeeooow, mew meeoow me mew meoow me mew

breast to lure him down.
meooow me meow mew meow.




“The old idiot,” said Blinks to himself, “how _can_ she be so ridiculous
“Mew mew meeow,” meow Meeoow me meeeeow, “mew meoow mew me me meeeeeooow

and unromantic? Would Livingstone’s mamma do that to her son, if she
mew meooooooow? Meeow Meoooooooow’m meeow me meow me mew mew, me mew

espied him far away on the Peak of Teneriffe? No!”
meooow mew mew meow me mew Meow me Meeeeooow? Me!”




Blinks was gazing skywards, and thinking that if he were spared to return
Meooow mew meooow meeeooow, mew meeeeeow meow me me meow meeeow me meeeow

to his native rug, he would write a book that would astonish the weak
me mew meooow mew, me meoow meoow m meow meow meoow meooooow mew meow

nerves of the tea-guzzling universe, and beat all creation, when he began
meooow me mew mew-meeeooow meooooow, mew meow mew meeeeeow, meow me meoow

to fancy he could hear a low rumbling noise beneath his feet, and
me meeow me meoow meow m mew meooooow meoow meeeoow mew meow, mew

perceive a slight heaving motion in the body of the mountain. He bent down
meeoooow m meooow meoooow meeeow me mew meow me mew meeeooow. Me meow meow

and listened. Yes! there it was;--there could not be a doubt of either
mew meeoooow. Mew! meoow me mew;--meeow meeow mew me m meeow me meeoow

fact; and, terrible thought! he stood on the summit of a living volcano.
meow; mew, meeeeeow meeeeow! me meoow me mew meeeow me m meeoow meeeeow.

But he did not fear; nay he even caught himself singing for joy; but in a
Mew me mew mew meow; mew me meow meooow meeeeow meeeeow mew mew; mew me m

moment his joy was turned to very particular grief, and his wonder to
meeoow mew mew mew meeeow me meow meeeeeeoow meeow, mew mew meooow me

something as nearly akin to fear as the heart of a Blinks could beat time
meoooooow me meeeow meow me meow me mew meeow me m Meooow meeow meow meow

to.
me.




“For,” says Blinks, “isn’t it rising I am? Isn’t it bigger and bigger the
“Mew,” meow Meeoow, “mew’m me meeeow M me? Mew’m me meeeow mew meeoow mew

mountain is getting?”
meeeeoow me meoooow?”




There was no longer any question of it at all; and Blinks hurried down the
Meoow mew me meeoow mew meeeeoow me me me mew; mew Meeeow meeooow meow mew

side of the mountain as fast as four legs could carry him; but judge, if
meow me mew meeeeeow me meow me meow meow meoow meoow mew; mew meoow, me

you can, of his astonishment to find that the hill itself had four legs,
mew mew, me mew meeeeeeeooow me meow meow mew meow meeoow mew meow meow,

as well as he himself had; so that unless he could manage to creep down
me meow me me meeooow mew; me meow meooow me meoow meeeow me meeow meow

one of these, he would have to leap through the sky, down--down--down to
mew me meeow, me meeow meow me meow meoooow mew mew, meow--meow--meow me

the vast plain below. For a moment only he stopped to think, to bring all
mew meow meeow meoow. Mew m meeoow meow me meoooow me meoow, me meoow mew

the wonderful powers of his great mind to bear upon the terrible
mew meeeeooow meeeow me mew meoow meow me meow meow mew meeoooow

situation; but just then his deliberation was brought to a speedy
meeeeeoow; mew meow meow mew meeoooooooow mew meeeoow me m meooow

conclusion; for, wonderful to relate, the whole head of the hill turned
meooooooow; mew, meeeeooow me meeoow, mew meoow meow me mew meow meooow

about, and looked him directly in the face with a pair of eyes as big, so
meeow, mew meeeow mew meeeooow me mew meow meow m meow me meow me mew, me

thought he, as fish-ponds; while at the same time a great cold nose was
meeeeow me, me meow-meeow; meeow me mew meow meow m meoow meow meow mew

thrust right beneath him, and he was hurled headlong to the plain below,
meooow meoow meeooow mew, mew me mew meooow meooooow me mew meeow meoow,

and the volcanic mountain--which cats, jealous of the immortality of
mew mew meooooow meeeeeow--meeow meow, meoooow me mew meeeeeeeeow me

Blinks, have since averred was nothing else but the ogre’s large dog
Meeeow, meow meeow meeooow mew meoooow meow mew mew meow’m meeow mew

Nero--shook itself and walked away to the other end of the boundless
Meow--meeow meooow mew meeeow meow me mew meoow mew me mew meeooooow

prairie. And Blinks confessed, many days afterwards, that at that moment,
meeeeow. Mew Meeoow meoooooow, meow meow meooooooow, meow me meow meooow,

though by no means afraid, he would not have undertaken to say whether his
meeoow me me meeow meooow, me meoow mew meow meooooooow me mew meeeeow mew

head or heels were uppermost. After all, no wonder; for at that precise
meow me meoow meow meeeeeeow. Meeow mew, me meeeow; mew me meow meeooow

moment Blinks lay on his back, and the world consequently had an
meooow Meooow mew me mew meow, mew mew meoow meeoooooooow mew me

up-side-down look about it.
me-meow-meow meow meoow me.







MEW X.
MEW M.




_The Ogre. The Baptism of Blinks._
mEow Meow. Mew Meeeeow me Meooow.m




It might have been thought that the trials and adventures of Blinks were
Me meeow meow meow meeooow meow mew meeoow mew meooooooow me Meooow meow

now at an end for one day; but, no,--he had still another to add to the
mew me me mew mew mew mew; mew, me,--me mew meeow meeooow me mew me mew

list. He had come through fire and earth and air; he was now to come
meow. Me mew meow meoooow meow mew meoow mew mew; me mew mew me meow

through water. One other weary mile he had yet to wander, ere he could lay
meoooow meeow. Mew meeow meoow meow me mew mew me meeoow, mew me meoow mew

his war-worn head on his mother’s breast; and this mile he was engaged
mew mew-meow meow me mew meeoow’m meooow; mew meow meow me mew meeeeow

placing behind him, when, suddenly, and ere he was aware, a gigantic hand
meeeoow meooow mew, meow, meeeeeow, mew mew me mew meeow, m meeeooow meow

was laid upon him, and he was carried swiftly through space, wheeled
mew meow meow mew, mew me mew meoooow meeeeow meeeoow meoow, meoooow

quickly round, and immediately found himself face to face with--horror of
meoooow meoow, mew meoooooooow meoow meoooow meow me meow meow--meeoow me

horrors!--the ogre.
meeooow!--mew meow.




“Ho! ho! my little gentleman,” so spoke the ogre; “you’ve been and gone
“Me! me! me meeeow meeeeeoow,” me meeow mew meow; “mew’me meow mew meow

and got a couple of peepers” (that is what the ogre termed Blinks’s eyes,
mew mew m meooow me meoooow” (meow me meow mew meow meooow Meooow’m meow,

such desecration of terms can scarcely be credited, but it is indeed
meow meoooooooow me meoow mew meeoooow me meeoooow, mew me me meooow

true),--“a couple of peepers, queer blue-grey blinkers they are too; so,
meow),--“m meeoow me meeooow, meeow meow-meow meeeeeow meow mew mew; me,

so, you must be baptized, then.”
me, mew meow me meeeooow, meow.”




It may be observed here, that although our hero had got a name, the
Me mew me meeoooow meow, meow meooooow mew meow mew mew m meow, mew

ceremony of baptism had not yet taken place. The ogre then pronounced
meeoooow me meeeoow mew mew mew meoow meoow. Mew meow meow meooooooow

these remarkable words, swinging our little hero through the immensity of
meeow meeoooooow meoow, meeeeoow mew meeoow meow meoooow mew meeooooow me

space at every word, and finally plunging him feline fathoms below water,
meeow me meeow meow, mew meeooow meeeeoow mew meeoow meeeoow meoow meoow,

in a dark wooden-bound lake of murky water (bucket?).
me m meow meeeow-meeow meow me meoow meeow (meeeow?).




“In the name--of your father--and your mother--and your sister--and your
“Me mew meow--me meow meeoow--mew meow meooow--mew meow meeoow--mew meow

brother--who all--made a living--in the--software line--I baptize you
meeeeow--mew mew--meow m meooow--me mew--meeeooow meow--M meeeeow mew

Blinks.”
Meeeow.”




Down, down, down, did the ogre plunge Blinks, and the dark waves, cold and
Meow, meow, meow, mew mew meow meooow Meooow, mew mew meow meeow, meow mew

cruel, closed remorselessly over his head. Then did Blinks gasp,--he
meoow, meooow meeeeeeeoooow meow mew meow. Meow mew Meeeow meow,--me

gasped, he spluttered and spluttering spat, kicked violently, and kicking,
meooow, me meeeeeooow mew meeeeeeeeow meow, meeeow meeooooow, mew meeooow,

sunk into insensibility. When he revived, he found himself in the hairy
meow meow meeeeeeeeeeow. Meow me meoooow, me meeow meeeeow me mew meeow

arms of his loving ma, who was licking his wet and shivering body with
meow me mew meeeow me, mew mew meeeeow mew mew mew meeooooow meow meow

loving tongue. Blinks soon dried; then tired out, war-worn, and weary, he
meooow meeoow. Meeeow meow meeow; meow meeow mew, mew-meow, mew meeow, me

sunk to rest with a tit in his mouth, while his mother crooned over the
meow me meow meow m mew me mew meeow, meoow mew meooow meeeoow meow mew

following song, taught her by _her_ mother,--Blink’s grandma,--in the
meeeeeoow meow, meooow mew me meeow meooow,--Meoow’m meeeoow,--me mew

happy days of her playful kittenhood.
meeow meow me mew meeeoow meeeeeooow.







THE THREE THREADS.
MEW MEOOW MEEOOOW.




(_Tune_, PURR--WURR-R-R,--PURR--WURR-R-R.)
(mEooow, MEOW--MEOW-M-M,--MEOW--MEOW-M-M.)




  Hirple, dirple, dirrum dum,
  Meooow, meeoow, meooow mew,

  Three threads and a thrum,[6 (1)]
  Meeow meeooow mew m meoow,[m (m)]

        The wee bit mousie
        Mew mew mew meeoow

        Made a housie,--
        Meow m meeeow,--

  Made a housie in a drum;
  Meow m meeeow me m meow;

        Scraped a hole,
        Meeeoow m meow,

        And made a housie,--
        Mew meow m meeoow,--

  Made its housie in a drum.
  Meow mew meooow me m meow.




  The three threadies and a thrum,
  Mew meoow meoooooow mew m meoow,

  If ye canna sing, ye just maun hum;[6 (2)]
  Me me meoow meow, me meow meow mew;[m (m)]

        When the mousie sleepit,
        Meow mew meeoow meeeeow,

        Pousie creepit,--
        Meooow meeooow,--

  Creepit slily to the drum;
  Meeeeow meeow me mew meow;

        Popped a paw in,
        Meooow m mew me,

        Clook’t a claw in,--
        Meoow’m m meow me,--

  Clook’t a claw in the mousie’s wum.
  Meeow’m m meow me mew meeoow’m mew.




  Och, hey, how, hum,
  Mew, mew, mew, mew,

  Three threadies and a thrum:
  Meeow meoooooow mew m meeow:

  If ye canna sing, ye maun be mum.
  Me me meoow meow, me meow me mew.

        The mousie grat,[6 (3)]
        Mew meeeow meow,[m (m)]

        The cattie spat,
        Mew meooow meow,

  And hauld the thingie frae the drum:
  Mew meeow mew meeeoow meow mew meow:

        It winked its eenies,[6 (4)]
        Me meeeow mew meeoow,[m (m)]

        Like heads o’ preenies,[6 (5)]
        Meow meoow m’ meeeeeow,[m (m)]

  Gave ae wee cheep and syne[6 (6)] was dumb.
  Meow me mew meeow mew meow[m (m)] mew meow.




  Fee, fa, fi, fum,
  Mew, me, me, mew,

  Cheer up my dear, and look na glum:[6 (7)]
  Meoow me me meow, mew meow me meow:[m (m)]

        I bit off its heed,[6 (8)]
        M mew mew mew meow,[m (m)]

        I lickit its bleed,[6 (9)]
        M meeoow mew meoow,[m (m)]

  And gnawed the beanies[6 (10)] beside the drum:
  Mew meooow mew meoooow[m (me)] meeoow mew meow:

        Just three sips,
        Meow meoow meow,

        And I lickit my lips,--
        Mew M meeeow me meow,--

  Lickit my lips, and then said “Num!”[6 (11)]
  Meeeow me meow, mew meow meow “Mew!”[m (me)]




  “Tinkle, tankle, tingle, tum,
  “Meeeow, meeoow, meeoow, mew,

  Weel, weel, and isn’t it rum?
  Meow, meow, mew mew’m me mew?

  There is nae musie in the drum,”
  Meeow me mew meoow me mew meow,”

        The manie cried,
        Mew meeow meoow,

        When he spied
        Meow me meoow

  The mousie’s holie in the drum.
  Mew meeoow’m meoow me mew meow.

        “But deil gang wi’ it,
        “Mew meow meow me’ me,

        That I should greet,[6 (12)]
        Meow M meooow meoow,[m (me)]

  It’ll mak a very decent lum[6 (13)]
  Me’me mew m meow meooow mew[m (me)]

  Wi’ three threads and a thrum.”
  Me’ meeow meeeoow mew m meoow.”

        Thrum, thrum, thrum, thrum,
        Meoow, meeow, meoow, meeow,

        Three threads and a thrum.
        Meoow meoooow mew m meoow.













CHAPTER XVI.
MEEEEOW MEW.




[_See Note O, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meoooow.m]




HUNTING EXPLOITS.
MEEOOOW MEOOOOOW.







Catching mice is, to a proper-minded cat, a mere parlour pastime, only to
Meeeeeow meow me, me m meeeow-meeeow mew, m meow meeeeow meeeoow, meow me

be resorted to on rainy days, or of a night when too restless to sleep. It
me meeeooow me me meeow meow, me me m meoow meow mew meeeeoow me meeow. Me

stands to pussy in the same relation that indoor croquet, billiards, or
meooow me meoow me mew meow meooooow meow meeoow meeeoow, meeooooow, me

reading a book in bed does to our noble selves. Rat-catching is only just
meeeoow m meow me mew meow me mew meoow meeoow. Mew-meeeeoow me meow meow

one degree better, and principally enjoyed by cats who have not reached
mew meeeow meeeow, mew meoooooooow meeeoow me meow mew meow mew meoooow

maturity in body and intellect--cats, in fact, in their
meeeooow me meow mew meeeeeeow--meow, me meow, me meoow

hobble-de-hoy-hood. To the matured cat,--especially if highly
meooow-me-mew-meow. Me mew meeooow mew,--meeeeeeeow me meooow

bred,--belong all the joys and excitement of the chase a-field. There is
meow,--meeeow mew mew meow mew meeeeeooow me mew meoow m-meoow. Meoow me

as much difference between the hunting of an animal of the cat-kind and
me meow meeeeeeeow meeeoow mew meeeoow me me meeeow me mew mew-meow mew

that of one of the canine order, as there is between the skilled tactics
meow me mew me mew meooow meoow, me meeow me meeooow mew meeeoow meeeoow

of German warfare, and the wild rush to battle of Arab cavalry. There is
me Meeeow meoooow, mew mew meow meow me meeeow me Meow meeeeow. Meoow me

more honesty in the one, more craft and cunning in the other. A dog is
meow meeeeow me mew mew, meow meoow mew meeeeow me mew meoow. M mew me

singularly destitute in what is called in Scotland, “canniness.” He also
meeoooooow meeeeooow me meow me meeoow me Meeeooow, “meeeeooow.” Me meow

wants patience; but the cat, armed with this gift, combined with cunning,
meoow meooooow; mew mew mew, meeow meow meow meow, meeeeoow meow meeooow,

and skill gained from experience, is master for anything in the field
mew meoow meeoow meow meeeeeeeow, me meeeow mew meeeeeow me mew meoow

which she considers game and chooses to square her moustache at. Even to a
meoow mew meeeeooow meow mew meeooow me meeeow mew meeeeeeow me. Meow me m

human being, stalking one’s prey is infinitely more engrossing than the
meoow meoow, meeoooow mew’m meow me meooooooow meow meeeeeeeow meow mew

mere hunting of it. The latter is pleasing, certainly, but the former is
meow meeeoow me me. Mew meeoow me meeeooow, meeooooow, mew mew meooow me

charming. Pussy prefers the charming, while our friend the dog merely runs
meooooow. Meoow meeooow mew meeeooow, meeow mew meeeow mew mew meooow meow

down his prey, and takes little pains to show skill even in that.
meow mew meow, mew meoow meeoow meoow me meow meoow meow me meow.




Leaving rats and mice along with blue-bottle flies, in the category of
Meeeeow meow mew meow meeow meow meow-meeeow meoow, me mew meeeooow me

mere kitten’s play, pussy’s game-list includes hares, rabbits, stoats,
meow meeoow’m meow, meeow’m meow-meow meeeeoow meoow, meeeeow, meeeow,

weasels, water-rats, and moles, besides everything that flies or has
meeeeow, meeow-meow, mew meeow, meeooow meeeeeeoow meow meoow me mew

feathers, from the humble household sparrow to the black-cock of the
meeeeeow, meow mew meeoow meeeeooow meeeoow me mew meeow-meow me mew

mountain. Not before a cat reaches maturity--viz., three years of
meeeeeow. Mew meeeow m mew meeeoow meeeeeow--mew., meoow meeow me

age--does the propensity for out-door hunting become a passion with her;
mew--meow mew meeeooooow mew mew-meow meoooow meooow m meeooow meow mew;

but once imbued with it, the desire never leaves her as long as she can
mew meow meeeow meow me, mew meeoow meoow meeoow mew me meow me mew mew

run.
mew.




Pirnie is a little female pussy, belonging to a labouring man. At the time
Meeoow me m meeeow meeoow meeow, meeeeooow me m meeeeooow mew. Me mew meow

I write, she is over twenty years old; but hale and hearty, and as playful
M meoow, mew me meow meeeow meoow mew; mew meow mew meeoow, mew me meeooow

as a kitten. She is a perfect adept at catching all sorts of vermin, but
me m meeoow. Mew me m meeooow meeow me meeeooow mew meeow me meeoow, mew

more particularly goes in for mole-catching. When she spies a mole-hill,
meow meeeooooooow meow me mew meow-meooooow. Meow mew meeow m meow-meow,

she at once sets herself down to watch it; nor will she raise the siege
mew me meow meow meeeeow meow me meeow me; mew meow mew meoow mew meeow

for hours, until the little gentleman in velvet gives signs of his
mew meoow, meoow mew meooow meoooooow me meeoow meeow meoow me mew

presence by casting up a few grains of earth. Then is pussy’s opportunity.
meeeooow me meeeeow me m mew meooow me meoow. Meow me meoow’m meeeeeeeoow.

She springs nimbly on the bank, and plunges her arms up to the shoulders
Mew meeeeow meeeow me mew meow, mew meeeeow mew meow me me mew meeeeeeow

into the earth, and never fails to bring poor molie to bank; and the
meow mew meoow, mew meeow meoow me meoow meow meeow me meow; mew mew

daylight has hardly had time to dazzle his eyes before he is dead.
meeeeeow mew meeoow mew meow me meeoow mew meow meeoow me me meow.




Last year Pirnie--being then nineteen years of age--had a thrilling
Meow meow Meooow--meeow meow meooooow meeow me mew--mew m meoooooow

adventure with a large hare. The hare, which was at least double the size
meeooooow meow m meoow meow. Mew meow, meoow mew me meeow meooow mew meow

of pussy, had been enjoying a quiet nap during the heat of the day, in a
me meeow, mew meow meeoooow m meoow mew meooow mew meow me mew mew, me m

field not far from the house, when Pirnie stumbled across its trail, and
meoow mew mew meow mew meoow, meow Meeoow meeoooow meeoow mew meeow, mew

on following it up the battle ensued. “The hare,” says my informant,
me meoooooow me me mew meeoow meeeow. “Mew meow,” meow me meoooooow,

“fought with great vigour, and often floored her antagonist; but Pirnie
“meeoow meow meeow meeoow, mew meoow meeeeow mew meooooooow; mew Meeoow

sent in her claws and teeth, till blood flew like rain, and fur like drift
meow me mew meeow mew meoow, meow meeow meow meow meow, mew mew meow meoow

(driven snow); and the hare soon becoming exhausted, Pirnie seized it by
(meooow meow); mew mew meow meow meeoooow meeeeeeow, Meooow meooow me me

the throat, and its plaintive screams were presently hushed in death.”
mew meooow, mew mew meeeeeoow meeeoow meow meoooooow meeoow me meoow.”




Graysie was a tom-cat, and rather famous for his hunting exploits. One
Meeeoow mew m mew-mew, mew meooow meooow mew mew meeeoow meeoooow. Mew

day, Graysie, being on the war-path, encountered a very large weasel, and
mew, Meeooow, meeow me mew mew-meow, meeeeeeooow m meow meoow meooow, mew

it was at once mutually agreed to try conclusions in a fair stand-up
me mew me meow meeeeoow meooow me mew meeeeeeooow me m meow meoow-me

fight. The battle was witnessed by Graysie’s owners, and lasted the
meeow. Mew meeoow mew meeeeeeow me Meeeeow’m meooow, mew meeeow mew

greater part of the afternoon, and ended triumphantly for pussy, in the
meoooow meow me mew meeeoooow, mew meoow meeoooooooow mew meoow, me mew

defeat and death of the weasel. When Graysie found out that his fallen foe
meeeow mew meeow me mew meeeow. Meow Meoooow meoow mew meow mew meeeow mew

was indeed dead, he took it up in his teeth, and carrying it home,
mew meeoow meow, me meow me me me mew meoow, mew meeeeeow me meow,

deposited it on the front-door steps, intending it no doubt as a present
meeeeeoow me me mew meeow-meow meeow, meoooooow me me meeow me m meoooow

for his mistress, as well as a trophy of his own prowess.
mew mew meeeeoow, me meow me m meooow me mew mew meeeeow.




A cat never springs on her prey unless sure of catching it, and her aim
M mew meoow meeeeow me mew meow meeeow meow me meeeooow me, mew mew mew

is most unerring. I know a cat that killed over a score of large rats in
me meow meeeeeow. M meow m mew meow meooow meow m meeow me meoow meow me

one day, and on one of these she sprang from a height of no less than
mew mew, mew me mew me meoow mew meeoow meow m meeoow me me meow meow

twelve feet.
meeoow meow.




I counted one day no less than 350 mice which a cat had killed
M meoooow mew mew me meow meow mew meow meoow m mew mew meooow

single-handed at the removal of a rick of oats in a farmer’s yard. He was
meeoow-meeoow me mew meeooow me m meow me meow me m meooow’m meow. Me mew

a fine, noble, red tabby, and it was quite a sight to see the surprising
m meow, meeow, mew meoow, mew me mew meoow m meoow me mew mew meeeeoooow

strength and agility with which he worked. He killed most of them with his
meeeooow mew meeooow meow meoow me meeoow. Me meooow meow me meow meow mew

paws, seldom putting a tooth in one. Every time there was a lull in the
meow, meeeow meeeoow m meoow me mew. Meoow meow meeow mew m meow me mew

flow of vermin, he took the opportunity of clearing the ground of the
meow me meeeow, me meow mew meeeeeeeeow me meeeooow mew meooow me mew

slain, which he carried to a convenient distance and placed all together
meoow, meeow me meeeoow me m meooooooow meeeeoow mew meeeow mew meeeeeow

in a heap. When all was over, to see honest Tom set himself down in front
me m meow. Meow mew mew meow, me mew meeeow Mew mew meoooow meow me meeow

of this heap of carnage, and thoughtfully and complacently contemplate his
me meow meow me meeeoow, mew meeeooooooow mew meeeeeeeooow meeeeooooow mew

bloody handiwork, would have been a study for the great Landseer himself.
meeeow meeeeooow, meeow meow meow m meeow mew mew meoow Meeeooow meeeeow.

But not one of his slain victims did Tom eat. Indeed, high-bred cats
Mew mew mew me mew meeow meoooow mew Mew mew. Meooow, meow-meow meow

seldom care to eat mice unless they are very hungry; they much prefer
meooow meow me mew meow meeeow meow mew meow meooow; meow meow meeoow

fish to anything else, and the flesh of birds they consider a greater
meow me meeeooow meow, mew mew meeow me meoow meow meeeeoow m meeeeow

luxury than even that of rabbits.
meooow meow meow meow me meeeeow.




Solomon, or Habakkuk, or Nebuchadnezzar, or some great Hebrew authority,
Meeeeow, me Meeeeoow, me Meeeeoooooooow, me meow meeow Meeoow meeeeeeow,

says, “Coneys are a feeble folk.” Doubtless they were so in those days,
meow, “Meeeow mew m meeoow meow.” Meeeeooow meow meow me me meeow meow,

and taken singly so they are in our day; but combinedly they are powerful
mew meoow meeeow me meow mew me mew mew; mew meeoooooow meow mew meeoooow

indeed, as many a poor ruined farmer can testify. They are very wise too,
meeoow, me meow m meow meeeow meeeow mew meoooow. Meow mew meow meow mew,

and this wisdom is especially displayed in the number of doors they have
mew meow meeeow me meeoooooow meeeeeeow me mew meooow me meoow meow meow

in each of their dwellings; so that should an enemy, in the shape of a
me meow me meeow meoooooow; me meow meeoow me meeow, me mew meeow me m

pussy, or a ferret, pop in at one door, Bunny would just pop out at the
meoow, me m meooow, mew me me mew meow, Meoow meoow meow mew mew me mew

other. I knew a cat in the Isle of Man--she had no tail worth
meeow. M meow m mew me mew Meow me Mew--mew mew me meow meoow

mentioning--who used to make this very habit of the rabbits a means of
meeeeeooow--mew meow me meow meow meow meeow me mew meeeeow m meoow me

securing her prey. She used to enter one hole suddenly, and as suddenly
meeeeeow mew meow. Mew meow me meoow mew meow meeeeoow, mew me meeoooow

reappear stern first. Of course, Bunny by this time was scampering off to
meeeeoow meoow meoow. Me meooow, Meoow me meow meow mew meeeeeeeow mew me

the opposite hole, and there at the door pussy would nab him just as he
mew meooooow meow, mew meoow me mew meow meeow meeow mew mew meow me me

came out.
meow mew.




Cats almost invariably bring home their prey to be either leisurely
Meow meeeow meeeeeeeow meeow meow meeow meow me me meooow meeeeooow

eaten, given to their kittens, or presented to their owners.
meoow, meeow me meoow meeeoow, me meeeeooow me meeow meooow.




A man in Banffshire rented a small farm from a game-preserving laird. This
M mew me Meeeeoooow meeoow m meeow meow meow m meow-meeeeeooow meoow. Meow

man was ruined by rabbits, and turned out of house and home by them. They
mew mew meeeow me meeeeow, mew meeeow mew me meeow mew meow me meow. Meow

first ate up all his oats, his grass, and turnips, so that only potatoes
meeow mew me mew mew meow, mew meoow, mew meoooow, me meow meow meooooow

could be grown on the place. By-and-by they took to eating the stems of
meeow me meeow me mew meeow. Me-mew-me meow meow me meooow mew meoow me

even those as soon as they appeared above ground, so that all the poor
meow meeow me meow me meow meooooow meoow meeoow, me meow mew mew meow

man’s live stock was reduced to one in number, namely, a big tabby cat.
mew’m meow meoow mew meeeeow me mew me meooow, meeeow, m mew meoow mew.

This cat throve upon the foe. She also took a few youthful prisoners, whom
Meow mew meeoow meow mew mew. Mew meow meow m mew meeeeoow meeeeeeow, meow

she brought home to play with and amuse a fine family of kittens, which
mew meeeeow meow me meow meow mew meeow m meow meeeow me meoooow, meeow

she had in the cottage garret. These young rabbits lived and grew, and
mew mew me mew meeooow meeoow. Meeow meeow meeeoow meeow mew meow, mew

burrowed and made nests in the thatch. It was the awful row this happy
meeeeoow mew meow meeow me mew meeoow. Me mew mew meoow mew meow meeow

family used to make every night which first led to the discovery. When the
meeeow meow me meow meeow meoow meeow meoow mew me mew meeeoooow. Meow mew

farmer found out one night the cause of the disturbance, he came down and
meeeow meeow mew mew meeow mew meeow me mew meeeeeeooow, me meow meow mew

awakened his wife and--
meeeooow mew meow mew--




“Jane,” said he, and he looked almost sublime as he stood on the cold
“Meow,” meow me, mew me meooow meeoow meeooow me me meoow me mew meow

damp floor with a penny candle in one hand, in rather scanty shirt-tails
meow meeow meow m meeow meooow me mew meow, me meooow meeoow meeow-meoow

and red Kilmarnock night cap--he was a study for a Rembrandt, “Jane, I’ve
mew mew Meeeeeeoow meeow mew--me mew m meeow mew m Meeeeeoow, “Meow, M’me

been a duffer too long. Those rascally rabbits--they’ve eaten up
meow m meeeow mew meow. Meeow meeeeoow meeeeow--meow’me meeow me

everything we have out of doors, now they’ve stormed and taken our castle.
meeeeoooow me meow mew me meeow, mew meow’me meeeeow mew meeow mew meeeow.

By-and-by they’ll eat the bed from under us, then they’ll eat ourselves;
Me-mew-me meow’me mew mew mew meow meeow me, meow meow’me mew meoooooow;

but, Jane, to-morrow morning I’m off,”--this he said
mew, Meow, me-meooow meeooow M’m mew,”--meow me meow

self-sacrificingly,--“I’m off, Jane, to the lands of America.” And the
meow-meeeeeeeeooow,--“M’m mew, Meow, me mew meoow me Meeooow.” Mew mew

good people went, leaving pussy and the feeble folks, in undisputed
meow meooow meow, meoooow meeow mew mew meooow meoow, me meeeeoooow

possession of house and farm.
meooooooow me meeow mew meow.




Gamekeepers do all they can to destroy the life of poor pussy by setting
Meeeeeoooow me mew meow mew me meeeoow mew meow me meow meoow me meeeeow

traps for, and shooting her wherever met. But some cats come to know all
meoow mew, mew meeeooow mew meeoooow mew. Mew meow meow meow me meow mew

about the treacherous wires and how to avoid them. They know too that
meoow mew meeeeeeeoow meoow mew mew me meoow meow. Meow meow mew meow

hares and rabbits often fall into these snares, and accordingly they turn
meeow mew meoooow meeow meow meow meeow meeoow, mew meeeeeeeeow meow meow

this knowledge to good account; and when they find a half-strangled animal
meow meeooooow me meow meeeoow; mew meow meow meow m meow-meeeeeeow meeoow

in the gin, they quietly despatch, and if possible carry it home.
me mew mew, meow meoooow meeoooow, mew me meeeooow meoow me meow.




Cats are great enemies to birds in the breeding season; but it is
Meow mew meoow meeeoow me meeow me mew meooooow meeoow; mew me me

surprising with what terrible fierceness even the smallest birds will
meeeeoooow meow meow meeeeoow meooooooow meow mew meeeeeow meeow meow

defend their nests from the inroads of predatory cats, whose evil
meooow meoow meoow meow mew meeeoow me meeeeeeow meow, meoow meow

intentions are thus often frustrated.
meeoooooow mew meow meeow meeeeeooow.




Pussy has many enemies to contend with on the hunting-ground.
Meoow mew meow meoooow me meeooow meow me mew meeooow-meeoow.




A poacher, the other day, was returning home in the grey light of early
M meeooow, mew meoow mew, mew meeeeeoow meow me mew meow meeow me meeow

morning, when he observed a large fox coming in his direction, with what
meeeeow, meow me meooooow m meeow mew meeeow me mew meeeeooow, meow meow

the man took to be a hare over his shoulder. The man fired, and Reynard
mew mew meow me me m meow meow mew meeoooow. Mew mew meeow, mew Meeooow

dropped. His burden was a fine large cat. Poor pussy had been promising
meeooow. Mew meeoow mew m meow meoow mew. Meow meeow mew meow meoooooow

herself a nice plump rabbit for breakfast; the fox thought he should like
meeooow m meow meoow meeoow mew meeeoooow; mew mew meoooow me meeoow meow

a fine healthy cat for a change. “There’s many a slip ’twixt the cup and
m meow meoooow mew mew m meeoow. “Meoow’m meow m meow ’meoow mew mew mew

the lip;” and the poacher’s gun brought matters to quite a different
mew mew;” mew mew meeooow’m mew meeeeow meeooow me meoow m meeeeeoow

conclusion.
meeeooooow.




I know a case of a cat that returned from hunting, with two moderate-sized
M meow m meow me m mew meow meeeeeow meow meeeoow, meow mew meeeeoow-meeow

but full-grown rats in her mouth, and _both alive_ and staring. They were
mew meow-meeow meow me mew meeow, mew meeow meeoow mew meeeoow. Meow meow

no doubt sitting cheek-by-jowl when pussy made the spring.
me meeow meeeeow meoow-me-meow meow meeow meow mew meooow.




If I tell the reader of a cat that is so clever that she can catch
Me M meow mew meooow me m mew meow me me meooow meow mew mew meoow

swallows on the wing, I suppose I may be allowed to close this chapter in
meooooow me mew meow, M meoooow M mew me meoooow me meeow meow meeeeow me

peace. It does seem a little yankee-doodlish I confess, but it is
meoow. Me meow meow m meooow meooow-meeoooow M meeooow, mew me me

nevertheless a fact.
meeeeeeeooow m meow.




At the foot of a certain post-master’s garden, flows a stream in which his
Me mew meow me m meeeoow meow-meeeow’m meeoow, meeow m meeoow me meeow mew

cat takes many a good salmon-trout. This stream is spanned by an
mew meoow meow m meow meooow-meoow. Meow meooow me meeooow me me

old-fashioned turf-covered tree-bridge, without any parapet. On this
mew-meeeeeoow meow-meeooow meow-meeeow, meoooow mew meeooow. Me meow

bridge crouches this sagacious cat, and often secures a swallow, as it
meooow meooooow meow meeooooow mew, mew meoow meeeoow m meeeeow, me me

skims out from under. That’s all.
meeow mew meow meeow. Meow’m mew.













CHAPTER XVII.
MEEEEOW MEOW.




[_See Note P, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m]




COCK-JOCK AND THE CAT.
MEOW-MEOW MEW MEW MEW.







Cock-Jock, as he was called, was the most famous of a famous breed of
Meow-Meow, me me mew meooow, mew mew meow meeeow me m meeoow meeow me

cocks, our family had possessed for many years. Descended from the
meoow, mew meeoow mew meeooooow mew meow meeow. Meeeeeoow meow mew

black-cock of the mountain, with plumage like jet, save one bright spot of
meeow-meow me mew meeoooow, meow meoooow meow mew, meow mew meeeow meow me

crimson and gold on each wing, short stout legs, and strongest of spurs,
meoooow mew meow me meow meow, meeow meoow meow, mew meeeeooow me meoow,

he had never met his match in field or pit. Many a brave but unfortunate
me mew meoow mew mew meoow me meoow me mew. Meow m meeow mew meeooooooow

bird he had stood upon, and crowed over, as he trampled out its last
meow me mew meoow meow, mew meeeow meow, me me meeeeoow mew mew meow

breath. I am speaking of twenty years ago, when cock-fighting in private
meeoow. M me meeoooow me meeeow meeow mew, meow meow-meeeooow me meeeeow

was still a favourite pastime, with many otherwise sensible and honourable
mew meeow m meeooooow meeooow, meow meow meeeeooow meeeeeow mew meooooooow

men, in the far north of Scotland. Cock-Jock possessed in the highest
mew, me mew mew meoow me Meooooow. Meow-Meow meeeeeeow me mew meeooow

degree, all those princely and chivalrous qualities, for which animals of
meeoow, mew meoow meeeooow mew meeeeeooow meoooooow, mew meoow meeooow me

his species and breed are so justly celebrated. He was a perfect gentleman
mew meeeeow mew meoow mew me meooow meeeeeeoow. Me mew m meoooow meeooooow

after his own fashion. He never would touch a morsel of food himself,
meoow mew mew meeeoow. Me meoow meoow meeow m meeoow me meow meeeoow,

until every member of his large harem had filled her crop; and thus his
meeow meeow meeoow me mew meeow meoow mew meeeow mew meow; mew meow mew

own share was at times small enough. If two hens quarrelled, and had
mew meoow mew me meoow meoow meeeow. Me mew meow meeoooooow, mew mew

recourse to their nebs, he used to peck them both, time about, until they
meeeeeow me meeow meow, me meow me meow meow meow, meow meeow, meoow meow

desisted; he then gave them a sound rating, pointing out to them in
meooooow; me meow meow meow m meoow meooow, meooooow mew me meow me

forcible language, the extreme impropriety of such conduct among ladies of
meeeeeow meeeeoow, mew meeeoow meeeeooooow me meow meeeoow meoow meooow me

a well-regulated harem. Cock-Jock went to roost every night with his old
m meow-meeeoooow meeow. Meow-Meow meow me meeow meoow meoow meow mew mew

mother--how beautiful is filial piety!--on one side of him, and a large
meeoow--mew meeooooow me meooow meeow!--me mew meow me mew, mew m meoow

white hen, his pet wife, on the other. Then he always crowed at the proper
meeow mew, mew mew meow, me mew meoow. Meow me meeeow meeeow me mew meeoow

time and place; never, under any circumstance, would he mistake moonlight
meow mew meoow; meoow, meeow mew meeeeeeeeoow, meeow me meeeeow meeeeeeow

for morning, as some foolish brutes do. Dogs he especially disliked. He
mew meeeoow, me meow meeooow meeoow me. Meow me meeeeeeoow meooooow. Me

used to steal a march upon them, pretend to be busy eating, till he turned
meow me meeow m meeow meow meow, meeeeow me me meow meooow, meow me meooow

their flank, then, before the poor dog could say “wow,” he had two inches
meeow meoow, meow, meooow mew meow mew meoow mew “mew,” me mew mew meeeow

of spur in each hip; and that tickled him. He was very affectionate, and
me meow me meow mew; mew meow meeeoow mew. Me mew meow meooooooooow, mew

tame enough to eat from your hand; but if you dared to go near or molest
meow meooow me mew meow meow meow; mew me mew meeow me me meow me meooow

a hen, he would assuredly lame you for a month. Once upon a time, when a
m mew, me meeow meeooooow meow mew mew m meeow. Meow meow m meow, meow m

little bantam cock was sick, Jock never went to roost for weeks, but took
meeeow meeeow meow mew meow, Meow meeow meow me meoow mew meeow, mew meow

the bantam to a nest and nursed it under his wings, as a hen would a
mew meeoow me m meow mew meooow me meeow mew meeow, me m mew meeow m

chicken, and tenderly fed it daily till it grew well again. I knew a great
meeeoow, mew meeeeoow mew me meeow meow me meow meow meoow. M meow m meoow

deal of what that cock said, for the language of the lower animals is by
meow me meow meow meow meow, mew mew meeeooow me mew meeow meoooow me me

no means difficult to understand. His remarks had reference principally to
me meoow meeeeeeow me meeoooooow. Mew meeeoow mew meeeeeeow meeeeooooow me

his food, its quantity and quality, his wives--their virtues and vices,
mew meow, mew meeoooow mew meeeeow, mew meoow--meeow meeeoow mew meeow,

and to his battles. He always backed himself to win. He used to ask every
mew me mew meeeeow. Me meooow meeoow meeeoow me mew. Me meow me mew meoow

human stranger he met, in a manner not at all calculated to give offence,
meeow meeeeeow me mew, me m meeoow mew me mew meeeeoooow me meow meeeeow,

if he mightn’t have “just one shy at your shins.” He one day offered me a
me me meeeow’m meow “meow mew mew me meow meeow.” Me mew mew meeeeow me m

snail. He came a long distance out of his way too to give it to me. He
meeow. Me meow m meow meeeeoow mew me mew mew mew me meow me me me. Me

offered me the delicious tit-bit with much ceremonious tick-tucking, and
meeooow me mew meeeeooow mew-mew meow meow meeeeeeooow meow-meoooow, mew

in quite a patronizing manner, as if, like old King Thingummy, I had
me meoow m meoooooooow meeoow, me me, meow mew Meow Meeeeeeow, M mew

advertised for a new pleasure, and he was about to introduce me to it. I’m
meeeeeeeow mew m mew meooooow, mew me mew meeow me meeeeeeow me me me. M’m

sure I hurt his feelings by refusing it. But I couldn’t help it. I think
meow M meow mew meeeeeow me meeeeoow me. Mew M meeeow’m meow me. M meoow

I could eat a snail now, if hard pushed, although I am told they taste “a
M meoow mew m meoow mew, me meow meeeow, meeeeeow M me meow meow meoow “m

little green.” But after one has lived on Navy weevils for many years, one
meooow meoow.” Mew meeow mew mew meoow me Meow meeeeow mew meow meoow, mew

isn’t so particular; but I was very young then.
mew’m me meeeeeeeow; mew M mew meow meoow meow.




I remember a gentleman’s satin hat being blown off near to his cockship. I
M meeeooow m meeooooow’m meeow mew meoow meoow mew meow me mew meeeeeow. M

wouldn’t have been that hat on any consideration. Heavens! how he battered
meeeow’m meow meow meow mew me mew meeeeeeooooow. Meeeoow! mew me meeeeeow

it, and tugged at it, and tore it; finally he jumped on it, and crew
me, mew meooow me me, mew meow me; meeeoow me meeoow me me, mew meow

_over_ it and _at_ the owner.
meeoow me mew meow mew meoow.




“Twenty shillings,” cried that unfortunate, “thrown to the winds! Curse
“Meeeow meoooooow,” meeow meow meeeeeeeeow, “meeoow me mew meoow! Meoow

the cock!”
mew meow!”




Jock looked at him, as much as to say, “Perhaps, sir, you would like to
Meow meooow me mew, me meow me me mew, “Meeooow, mew, mew meeow meow me

come a little nearer, and repeat that expression.” But the gentleman
meow m meooow meeeow, mew meooow meow meeeooooow.” Mew mew meeooooow

didn’t. He preferred going home bare-headed.
meow’m. Me meeeoooow meoow meow meow-meeeow.




I one day met a poor woman carrying a large stuffed cock. Like the cheeky
M mew mew mew m meow meoow meeeeoow m meeow meeeeow meow. Meow mew meooow

brat they called me, I induced her to come and show the thing to Jock. She
meow meow meeeow me, M meeeeow mew me meow mew meow mew meeow me Meow. Mew

did so. Jock very soon laid bare the bird-stuffer’s art. Cotton-wool and
mew me. Meow meow meow meow meow mew meow-meeooow’m mew. Meooow-meow mew

wires and all went to leeward. Jock had never met with so curious a foe in
meoow mew mew meow me meoooow. Meow mew meeow mew meow me meeeeow m mew me

his life before, and he treated him accordingly. My father came. Jock
mew meow meeoow, mew me meeeoow mew meeooooooow. Me meeeow meow. Meow

crew. The woman wept, and I ran and hid.
meow. Mew meeow meow, mew M mew mew mew.




One fine summer’s day my sister left a pillow in the garden. We were all
Mew meow meeeow’m mew me meeeow meow m meeeow me mew meeeow. Me meow mew

in the parlour. Presently it came on to snow apparently, and the room got
me mew meeooow. Meeeeeeow me meow me me meow meeeeeeoow, mew mew meow mew

darkened. We soon discovered that it was not snow-flakes, but feathers. My
meooooow. Me meow meooooooow meow me mew mew meow-meeeow, mew meeeeeow. Me

father said, “In the name of all creation!” My mother put on her glasses,
meooow meow, “Me mew meow me mew meeeooow!” Me meeoow mew me mew meoooow,

and remarked, “Every good thing attend us!” Then we all took umbrellas,
mew meeeooow, “Meoow meow meoow meooow me!” Meow me mew meow meeooooow,

and went out. When, half choked, we reached the garden, we discovered a
mew meow mew. Meow, meow meooow, me meoooow mew meeeow, me meooooooow m

clue to the mystery. Cock-Jock had spied the pillow, and could not resist
meow me mew meeooow. Meow-Meow mew meoow mew meooow, mew meeow mew meooow

having one kick at it. One kick led to another; and when the eider-down
meeoow mew meow me me. Mew meow mew me meeooow; mew meow mew meoow-meow

began to come out, Jock lost his temper, and went at it with a will. He
meoow me meow mew, Meow meow mew meooow, mew meow me me meow m meow. Me

had some extra animal energy to expend that morning, and he did it--so
mew meow meeow meeoow meooow me meeoow meow meeeoow, mew me mew me--me

successfully, too, that for a whole week never a bit of work was done
meeeeeeeooow, mew, meow mew m meoow meow meoow m mew me meow mew meow

about the place. The horses had a holiday, and we had cold mutton every
meoow mew meeow. Mew meooow mew m meeeoow, mew me mew meow meeoow meoow

day, the servants being all engaged culling the feathers from the grass
mew, mew meeoooow meoow mew meeooow meeeeow mew meeeeoow meow mew meoow

and trees, and picking the fluff from the flowers.
mew meoow, mew meeooow mew meoow meow mew meeooow.




Now to Cock-Jock was granted the honour of walking about wherever he
Mew me Meow-Meow mew meoooow mew meooow me meeeeow meoow meeeeoow me

pleased--a privilege which was denied to the members of his harem, and it
meoooow--m meeeeooow meoow mew meooow me mew meeeeow me mew meoow, mew me

was on the garden walk the battle took place which I am about to describe.
mew me mew meeeow meow mew meooow meow meoow meeow M me meoow me meooooow.

Gibbey, my father’s famous red Tom-tabby, had a saucer of milk on the
Meooow, me meeeow’m meeeow mew Mew-meoow, mew m meeeow me meow me mew

foot-path, with which, although he did not drink it himself, he did not
meow-meow, meow meeow, meeeooow me mew mew meeow me meoooow, me mew mew

choose that any one else should meddle. The cat and the cock had always
meooow meow mew mew meow meeeow meeoow. Mew mew mew mew meow mew meooow

been on friendly terms till now; and being thirsty, and presuming on this
meow me meeeooow meeow meow mew; mew meeow meeooow, mew meoooooow me meow

friendship, Cock-Jock walked half-apologetically up to the saucer, and
meeeeeeoow, Meow-Meow meeoow meow-meeeeoooooooow me me mew meeoow, mew

dipping his beak in to fill it, raised his head to swallow it. It was just
meeeeow mew meow me me meow me, meeeow mew meow me meeooow me. Me mew meow

as his eyes were thus turned heavenward, that Master Gibbey sprang up--he
me mew meow meow meow meeeow meeeooooow, meow Meeeow Meooow meooow me--me

was always too ready with his hands--and without taking his gloves off,
mew meooow mew meoow meow mew meeow--mew meeeoow meeoow mew meooow mew,

struck honest Jock a sound slap on the ear. The cock shook his head; but
meeoow meeeow Meow m meoow meow me mew mew. Mew meow meeow mew meow; mew

knowing he was in the wrong, he did not get angry yet, but attempted to
meoooow me mew me mew meoow, me mew mew mew meeow mew, mew meeeeeoow me

reason with the cat. For Cock-Jock had this peculiarity: he never lost
meooow meow mew mew. Mew Meow-Meow mew meow meeeoooooow: me meoow meow

temper at the first blow from any creature he thought he was a match for.
meeoow me mew meoow meow meow mew meeoooow me meeeoow me mew m meeow mew.

A strange bantam--and we all know how plucky and self-important they
M meoooow meeeow--mew me mew meow mew meeeow mew meow-meeooooow meow

are--once alighted on Jock’s dung-hill, and immediately struck at him.
mew--meow meeeeeow me Meow’m meow-meow, mew meoooooooow meeeow me mew.




“Avast heaving, my little friend,” said the big cock, or words to that
“Meoow meeeeow, me meeoow meeeow,” meow mew mew meow, me meoow me meow

effect; “you must be aware that I could knock you into the minutest
meeoow; “mew meow me meoow meow M meoow meoow mew meow mew meeeeeow

smithereens in the twinkling of a foretop-sail.”
meeooooooow me mew meeeeooow me m meeeeow-meow.”




“Oho!” thought the bantam, “you’re afraid, are you; take one for your nob,
“Mew!” meeeoow mew meeoow, “mew’me meeoow, mew mew; meow mew mew meow mew,

then,” and he struck him again.
meow,” mew me meeoow mew meeow.




“Hang it all, you know,” roared Jock, now fairly enraged. He gave the
“Meow me mew, mew meow,” meeoow Meow, mew meooow meeeeow. Me meow mew

bantam one blow; and where that bird was sent to has never been
meeoow mew meow; mew meoow meow meow mew meow me mew meeow meow

ascertained to this day, never a feather of him being found. And so Jock
meeeeeeooow me meow mew, meoow m meeeoow me mew meeow meeow. Mew me Meow

attempted to reason with the cat.
meeeeeoow me meeoow meow mew mew.




“Cock a ro-ra-kuk? What does this mean, Master Gilbert? I own to having
“Meow m me-me-mew? Meow meow meow meow, Meooow Meeeoow? M mew me meooow

been in the wrong; but a blow, sir--a blow!”
meow me mew meoow; mew m meow, mew--m meow!”




He hadn’t long to wait for another either--this time without the gloves;
Me meow’m meow me meow mew meoooow meooow--meow meow meeooow mew meooow;

and then, as the Yankees say, his “dander riz.” The cock hopped nimbly
mew meow, me mew Meeooow mew, mew “meooow mew.” Mew meow meeeow meeoow

over the saucer, and the battle began in earnest. Cock-Jock “showered his
meow mew meeoow, mew mew meeoow meoow me meeooow. Meow-Meow “meeeeoow mew

blows like wintry rain.”
meeow meow meeoow meow.”




But pussy adroitly avoided them all, and returned them with such practised
Mew meeow meooooow meeeeow meow mew, mew meooooow meow meow meow meeeeooow

precision and skill, that the poor cock’s pretty head was soon a mass of
meeeeeeow mew meoow, meow mew meow meow’m meeoow meow mew meow m meow me

blood and gore. Jock, getting confused, held his head ground-wards, as if
meeow mew meow. Meow, meeeoow meeoooow, meow mew meow meooow-meoow, me me

fighting with another cock instead of a cat, thus giving Gibbey all the
meeoooow meow meoooow meow meeeeow me m mew, meow meooow Meooow mew mew

advantage. The fight had now lasted fully five minutes, and as yet pussy
meoooooow. Mew meeow mew mew meeeow meoow meow meeeoow, mew me mew meeow

rejoiced in a whole skin. I was beginning to think it was all up with the
meeeooow me m meoow meow. M mew meeeeeoow me meoow me mew mew me meow mew

cock, when, crunch! the advantage came at last,--one stroke with that
meow, meow, meeeow! mew meeooooow meow me meow,--mew meooow meow meow

murderous spur, and Gibbey was stretched among the flowers, to all
meeeeeeow meow, mew Meeeow mew meeeeooow meeow mew meoooow, me mew

appearance dead. Cock-Jock bent cautiously down, examined him first with
meeeeeooow meow. Meow-Meow meow meeoooooow meow, meeeeoow mew meeow meow

one eye then with another, and then, apparently satisfied, he jumped on
mew mew meow meow meeeoow, mew meow, meeeeeeeow meeeeeeow, me meeeow me

his side and crew loud and long. But Gibbey did not die. He was out of the
mew meow mew meow meow mew meow. Mew Meeoow mew mew mew. Me mew mew me mew

sick-list in four days; but he ever after gave the cock a wide berth, and
meow-meow me meow meow; mew me meow meoow meow mew meow m meow meeow, mew

plenty of sea-room. Poor Cock-Jock! he died at last on the field of
meeeow me mew-meow. Meow Meow-Meow! me meow me meow me mew meeow me

battle. His life was literally trodden out of him by a band of hostile
meeeow. Mew meow mew meeooooow meeooow mew me mew me m meow me meeeeow

turkeys. Superior weight did it.
meeeeow. Meeoooow meeoow mew me.













CHAPTER XVIII.
MEEEEOW MEOOW.




[_See Note Q, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m]




NURSING VAGARIES.
MEEEOOW MEOOOOOW.







The cat, unlike most animals, seems singularly exempt from the pains of
Mew mew, meooow meow meeooow, meeow meeeeeooow meeoow meow mew meeow me

parturition. “In sorrow shalt thou bring forth,” was never meant to apply
meeooooooow. “Me meeeow meoow meow meeow meoow,” mew meoow meeow me meeow

to pussy. In fact about this time she always appears jollier than at any
me meeow. Me meow meoow meow meow mew meeeow meeooow meeooow meow me mew

other, apparently looking upon the whole business as a capital lark--a
meoow, meeoooooow meeeoow meow mew meeow meeeooow me m meeeeow meow--m

rather enjoyable practical joke. My own cat, Muffie, invariably gives due
meeoow meeeeooow meeeeeeow meow. Me mew mew, Meeeow, meeeeeeoow meoow mew

notice of the coming event, by some of the most wonderful specimens of
meeeow me mew meooow meeow, me meow me mew meow meeeeooow meoooooow me

cantation I ever listened to. In fact she becomes a small opera in
meeooooow M meow meooooow me. Me meow mew meeeeow m meeow meoow me

herself, chorus and all. Her song, moreover, is interlarded with little
meoooow, meeeow mew mew. Mew meow, meooooow, me meeeeeeeoow meow meooow

hysterical squeaks, as if she were brim-full of some strange joy, and
meooooooow meeeoow, me me mew meow meow-meow me meow meoooow mew, mew

running over. At the same time she lavishes more caresses than usual upon
meoooow meow. Me mew meow meow mew meeoooow meow meeeeeow meow meoow meow

Nero, who, not knowing what to make of it, looks very foolish indeed.
Meow, mew, mew meeeeow meow me meow me me, meeow meow meeeeow meeoow.




CATS EATING THEIR KITTENS.--Numerous instances might be cited of cats
MEOW MEEEOW MEEOW MEOOOOW.--Meeeeeow meoooooow meeow me meoow me meow

eating their kittens as soon as born. These are curious examples of
meeeow meeow meoooow me meow me meow. Meoow mew meoooow meeeooow me

mistaken affection, and may be put down to a species of feline mania,
meeeeeow meeeeeoow, mew mew me mew meow me m meeeeow me meeeow meoow,

somewhat analogous to that which is sometimes, though rarely, seen in
meeeeoow meeeeeeow me meow meeow me meeeoooow, meeoow meeeow, meow me

human beings. Women _enceinte_ have often curious tastes, as witness the
meoow meeoow. Meeow meeeeoooow meow meeow meeeeow meooow, me meeeeow mew

lady whom nothing would please, but a bite of a baker’s shoulder. She had
meow meow meeeeow meeow meeeow, mew m meow me m meoow’m meeeooow. Mew mew

the bite and was satisfied. We trust the baker was. Or the princess who
mew meow mew mew meeeoooow. Me meoow mew meeow mew. Me mew meeeooow mew

had her husband killed; she ate part of him, and had the remainder salted
mew mew meoooow meeoow; mew mew meow me mew, mew mew mew meeeeooow meeeow

for future consumption. A lady of my acquaintance,--she was a savage, and
mew meeeow meeeeeeooow. M meow me me meeeeeeeooow,--mew mew m meeoow, mew

lived in Lamoo on the East Coast of Africa,--had twins, a very little baby
meeow me Meeow me mew Meow Meoow me Meooow,--mew meoow, m meow meeoow meow

boy and a big fat baby girl. I saw her some days after, squatting in front
mew mew m mew mew meow meow. M mew mew meow meow meeow, meeooooow me meoow

of her bamboo hut, and singing low to her little son.
me mew meeeow mew, mew meeeoow mew me mew meeeow mew.




“But, in the name of goodness,” said I, “what have you got in the pot?
“Mew, me mew meow me meeeeoow,” meow M, “meow meow mew mew me mew mew?

French missionary?”
Meooow meeeeeeeow?”




“No,” she said; exhibiting no sort of surprise at my question, for a dish
“Me,” mew meow; meeeooooow me meow me meeeeeow me me meeoooow, mew m meow

of French missionary was by no means unknown in those parts. And she
me Meooow meooooooow mew me me meoow meeooow me meoow meeow. Mew mew

intimated to me, that it was _only_ the baby girl, with whom she intended
meeeeeoow me me, meow me mew meeeow mew meow meow, meow meow mew meeeeeow

to feed the little baby boy, as he had not got fair play; and so the
me meow mew meeoow meow mew, me me mew mew mew meow meow; mew me mew

majesty of justice was maintained.
meoooow me meoooow mew meeeooooow.




Cats are greatly sensible of the honour of maternity, and when deprived of
Meow mew meoooow meeeooow me mew meooow me meeooooow, mew meow meeeeoow me

their kittens feel very wretched indeed. Under these circumstances, they
meeow meeooow meow meow meeoooow meeeow. Meeow meoow meoooooooooow, meow

will nurse and suckle almost any creature.
meow meeow mew meeeow meooow mew meooooow.




CATS REARING DOGS.--A cat of mine, a few years ago, suckled and reared a
MEOW MEOOOOW MEOW.--M mew me meow, m mew meoow mew, meeooow mew meooow m

beautiful Pomeranian dog. I thought at the time this was rather
meeeeooow Meeeeeooow mew. M meeeoow me mew meow meow mew meeeow

surprising; but I should not be surprised now at anything a cat did.
meeeeoooow; mew M meooow mew me meeeoooow mew me meooooow m mew mew.




A gentleman, the other day, had a very nice fox-terrier bitch. The poor
M meeeeooow, mew meeow mew, mew m meow meow mew-meoooow meeow. Mew meow

thing died giving birth to a litter of four puppies. His cat, however,
meeow meow meooow meoow me m meooow me meow meeeeow. Mew mew, meeeeow,

whose kittens had been all drowned a day or too before, immediately
meoow meeeeow mew meow mew meeeeow m mew me mew meooow, meeeeooooow

installed herself in the vacant bed and adopted the puppies. She proved a
meeooooow meeooow me mew meeoow mew mew meoooow mew meeeoow. Mew meeoow m

good mother to them, and successfully reared every one of them.
meow meooow me meow, mew meeeeeeeeoow meeeow meeow mew me meow.




I know of another similar instance, where a cat was house-mate with a
M meow me meeeoow meeeeow meooooow, meeow m mew mew meeow-meow meow m

rather valuable bitch; this bitch brought forth a litter of seven pups.
meeoow meeeeoow meoow; meow meeow meeeoow meeow m meeoow me meoow meow.

The cat had five kittens at the same time. Thinking that seven whelps were
Mew mew mew meow meeeeow me mew meow meow. Meeeeeow meow meoow meeeow meow

rather many for the bitch to rear, four of pussy’s kittens were drowned
meooow meow mew mew meoow me meow, meow me meoow’m meeeoow meow meeeoow

and two pups put to her instead. But pussy peremptorily refused to have
mew mew meow mew me mew meeeeow. Mew meoow meeeeeeoooow meeeeow me meow

anything to say to them, and persisted in that refusal until the expedient
meeeeeow me mew me meow, mew meoooooow me meow meoooow meeow mew meoooooow

was tried of drowning the remaining kitten. That brought the cat to her
mew meeow me meeeooow mew meeeeooow meeoow. Meow meeeoow mew mew me mew

senses; and she took to her foster children kindly enough and reared them.
meooow; mew mew meow me mew meeoow meeeeeow meeeow meeoow mew meeoow meow.

This same cat afterwards suckled a puppy and kitten at the same time.
Meow meow mew meeeeoooow meoooow m meoow mew meooow me mew meow meow.




One day she gave birth to her kittens in an out-house, and at once leaving
Mew mew mew meow meoow me mew meeeeow me me mew-meeow, mew me meow meeooow

them to shift for themselves, she entered the dwelling house and insisted
meow me meeow mew meooooooow, mew meoooow mew meeeooow meeow mew meeeeeow

on giving suck to the dog of her first adoption. As he was now a
me meooow meow me mew mew me mew meeow meeeeeow. Me me mew mew m

full-grown dog, and had a great regard for his own respectability, he
meow-meoow mew, mew mew m meoow meeoow mew mew mew meeeeeeeeoooow, me

didn’t see the fun of it. Pussy went after him nevertheless, lying down in
meow’m mew mew mew me me. Meeow meow meeow mew meeeeeeoooow, meeow meow me

front of him, and mewing piteously up in his face. When, to get rid of
meeow me mew, mew meooow meeeeeoow me me mew meow. Meow, me mew mew me

her importunities, the dog went out, she even followed him to the street,
mew meeeeooooooow, mew mew meow mew, mew meow meeeeeow mew me mew meeoow,

and only ceased pestering him, when her kittens were discovered and
mew meow meeeow meeeeeeow mew, meow mew meeeoow meow meeeeoooow mew

brought to her.
meeeeow me mew.




CAT ADOPTING HER GRAND-CHILDREN.--A lady had two cats, mother and
MEW MEOOOOOW MEW MEOOW-MEEEEEOW.--M meow mew mew meow, meeeow mew

daughter, living in the same house with her. The mother was of a quiet,
meeeeeow, meeeow me mew meow meeow meow mew. Mew meooow mew me m meoow,

domesticated turn of mind, and preferred fire-side enjoyments to
meeeeeeeeeow meow me meow, mew meeeeeoow meow-meow meeeeeeoow me

out-of-door sports; but the daughter was quite the reverse. She was a
mew-me-meow meeoow; mew mew meeeeeow mew meeow mew meeooow. Mew mew m

mighty huntress, and it was no uncommon thing, to see her coming waddling
meooow meooooow, mew me mew me meooooow meeow, me mew mew meooow meeoooow

across the fields with a rabbit as big as herself in her mouth. Both these
meeoow mew meeeow meow m meooow me mew me meoooow me mew meeow. Meow meoow

cats had kittens at the same time, but the daughter seemed determined,
meow mew meeeoow me mew meow meow, mew mew meeeooow meeoow meeeeeeeow,

that nursing should not interfere with her hunting expeditions. She was a
meow meeeoow meeeow mew meeooooow meow mew meeeoow meeooooooow. Mew mew m

strong-minded woman’s-rights sort of a cat, and was often scouring the
meeoow-meooow meeow’m-meooow meow me m mew, mew mew meoow meeeooow mew

country in pursuit of game, when her poor little family were starving at
meoooow me meeeeow me meow, meow mew meow meeoow meooow meow meeoooow me

home. One day she went off as usual, and was never afterwards seen alive:
meow. Mew mew mew meow mew me meoow, mew mew meeow meooooooow meow meeow:

her mangled remains were found a little way down the line, where she had
mew meoooow meoooow meow meeow m meeeow mew meow mew meow, meoow mew mew

been run over by a railway train.
meow mew meow me m meeeoow meeow.




“We were just about,” says the lady, “to drown the little orphan kits,
“Me meow meow meoow,” meow mew meow, “me meeow mew meeoow meeeow meow,

when, to our surprise, we found that old grandmamma puss had adopted her
meow, me mew meeeooow, me meeow meow mew meeeooooow meow mew meoooow mew

ill-fated daughter’s children, and was nursing and tending them, with the
mew-meeow meeoooow’m meeeeoow, mew mew meeeoow mew meeooow meow, meow mew

same amount of care and attention she bestowed on her own.”
meow meeeow me meow mew meeeeeoow mew meooooow me mew mew.”




I know an instance where two cats, resident in the same house, had had
M meow me meeoooow meoow mew meow, meooooow me mew meow meoow, mew mew

kittens on the same day. There being no chance of finding homes for so
meeooow me mew meow mew. Meeow meeow me meooow me meeooow meoow mew me

many, they were all drowned with the exception of three. Now these two
meow, meow meow mew meoooow meow mew meeeeeoow me meeow. Mew meeow mew

mother-cats were wise in their day and generation. No one cat, they
meeoow-meow meow meow me meoow mew mew meeeeeooow. Me mew mew, meow

thought, could nurse and suckle ten kits, and it was equally evident that
meeeeow, meeow meoow mew meooow mew meow, mew me mew meeeeow meeeoow meow

three kittens did not require the services of two cats. So they concluded
meoow meeooow mew mew meeeoow mew meooooow me mew meow. Me meow meeeeeoow

that the best plan would be to put the shattered remains of the two
meow mew meow meow meoow me me mew mew meeeoooow meoooow me mew mew

families,--“Your one kitty, Mrs. Tom, and my two,”--together in one bed,
meeeeoow,--“Meow mew meoow, Mew. Mew, mew me mew,”--meeeeeow me mew mew,

and take turn about in nursing them. This was accordingly done, and turned
mew meow meow meeow me meoooow meow. Meow mew meeeeeeeeow meow, mew meooow

out to be a very satisfactory arrangement for all parties concerned; for
mew me me m meow meeeeoooooow meeeoooooow mew mew meoooow meoooooow; mew

either cat could now go abroad when she pleased, happy in the thought that
meeoow mew meoow mew me meeoow meow mew meeeoow, meoow me mew meeeoow meow

nothing could go wrong at home.
meeeeow meoow me meoow me meow.




NURSING A HARE.--A certain carpenter whom I knew had a cat which in due
MEEEEOW M MEOW.--M meoooow meeeeooow meow M meow mew m mew meeow me mew

season,--as all cats will,--produced a litter of kittens which--very cruel
meeoow,--me mew meow meow,--meooooow m meooow me meeooow meeow--meow meeow

and thoughtless was the action--were all drowned. Poor pussy mourned her
mew meeooooooow mew mew meeoow--meow mew meeooow. Meow meoow meoooow mew

offspring for many days, but she was a female philosopher--that may seem a
meeooooow mew meow meow, mew mew mew m meeoow meeeoooooow--meow mew meow m

paradox, but she was; so she communed with herself on her bed at night,
meoooow, mew mew mew; me mew meooooow meow meeooow me mew mew me meeow,

thus,--
meow,--




“My inhuman master has most unfeelingly slain all my pretty little babes,
“Me meeooow meooow mew meow meeeeooooow meoow mew me meooow meeoow meoow,

and has not left me one; but he cannot dry up the fountains of a mother’s
mew mew mew meow me mew; mew me meeeow mew me mew meeeeeoow me m meeoow’m

love, with which my heart runs o’er; besides, I’m taking the milk-fever.
meow, meow meeow me meoow meow m’me; meeeoow, M’m meeoow mew meow-meoow.

But behold, day is gently breaking. I’ll seek the mountain, and be it what
Mew meeeow, mew me meeeow meeoooow. M’me meow mew meeeooow, mew me me meow

it may, I’ll have something to love, something to suckle me.”
me mew, M’me meow meeeeeoow me meow, meeeoooow me meeoow me.”




That day she found, or more probably stole, a fine young hare, which she
Meow mew mew meeow, me meow meeeeeow meoow, m meow meoow meow, meeow mew

nursed and reared as tenderly as if it had been one of her own kittens.
meeeow mew meooow me meooooow me me me mew meow mew me mew mew meeeeow.




NURSING SQUIRRELS.--This is by no means uncommon in cats. They will rear
MEOOOOW MEEEEEEOW.--Meow me me me meeow meeoooow me meow. Meow meow meow

them either along with their own kittens or by themselves; and a very
meow meeoow meeow meow meoow mew meeeeow me me meeeeeooow; mew m meow

pretty sight it is to see. Squirrels thus reared make most delightful
meeoow meoow me me me mew. Meeeeeeow meow meeoow meow meow meooooooow

little pets.
meooow meow.




NURSING CHICKENS.--I know several instances of cats supplying the place of
MEOOOOW MEEEEEOW.--M meow meeooow meoooooow me meow meeeeeeow mew meeow me

their lost kittens with a chicken. One cat, for example, had had all her
meeow meow meoooow meow m meeeeow. Mew mew, mew meeeoow, mew mew mew mew

offspring,--it was her first litter,--drowned; she went at once out into
meeeeeeow,--me mew mew meeow meeoow,--meeooow; mew meow me meow mew meow

the court-yard, where a hen was gathering crumbs to a large brood of
mew meoow-meow, meoow m mew mew meoooooow meeeow me m meeow meeow me

chickens. One of these pussy, watching her chance, sprang upon and seized
meeeeeow. Mew me meeow meoow, meooooow mew meeoow, meeeow meow mew meeoow

by the neck, and although hotly pursued by the enraged mother, managed to
me mew meow, mew meooooow meeow meoooow me mew meoooow meeeow, meeooow me

reach the house in safety, and went straight to her own bed. Here she
meeow mew meoow me meooow, mew meow meooooow me mew mew mew. Meow mew

deposited the chicken, and, lying down beside it, commenced to sing,
meoooooow mew meeeoow, mew, meeow meow meeoow me, meoooooow me meow,

clearly intimating that she wished her little adopted one to have a drink.
meeeeow meeeooooow meow mew meeoow mew meeeow meoooow mew me meow m meeow.

But unfortunately, chickie’s mouth wasn’t adapted for sucking, but it
Mew meeeeeeeeeoow, meeooow’m meeow meow’m meeooow mew meoooow, mew me

cowered beside her for warmth; and as there were plenty of crumbs on the
meoooow meooow mew mew meeoow; mew me meeow meow meeoow me meeoow me mew

kitchen floor, it did not want. So it became a sort of household pet, and
meeeeow meeow, me mew mew meow. Me me meeeow m meow me meeeeeoow mew, mew

when not eating, it was always cuddling down beside its funny
meow mew meooow, me mew meooow meeeeoow meow meooow mew meoow

foster-mother. I may mention here, that next time this same cat had
meooow-meooow. M mew meeeoow meow, meow meow meow meow meow mew mew

kittens they were all drowned again; but this time she did a wiser thing.
meeooow meow meow mew meeooow meeow; mew meow meow mew mew m meeow meeow.

She found out that a cat, belonging to one of the neighbours, was the
Mew meeow mew meow m mew, meeooooow me mew me mew meeeeeooow, mew mew

happy mother of three kittens which she had been allowed to keep. Off goes
meoow meeoow me meoow meeeoow meeow mew mew meow meeeeow me meow. Mew meow

puss to this neighbour’s house, and having thrashed the mother to begin
meow me meow meeooooow’m meoow, mew meooow meeeooow mew meooow me meoow

with, she kidnapped and carried home one of her family. Several times was
meow, mew meeeoooow mew meoooow meow mew me mew meeoow. Meoooow meoow mew

the kitten taken back, and each time pussy went and stole it again; and as
mew meooow meeow meow, mew meow meow meoow meow mew meeow me meeow; mew me

she never failed to give the other cat a preliminary hiding, it was at
mew meoow meooow me meow mew meoow mew m meeeeeeooow meeeow, me mew me

last deemed most prudent to let her retain it.
meow meeoow meow meeooow me mew mew meeeow me.




Miss G---- is an old maid, and a great lover of cats and poultry. Once she
Meow M---- me me mew meow, mew m meoow meoow me meow mew meeeeow. Meow mew

had a cat nursing a litter of kittens, and one of the chickens in the yard
mew m mew meeeoow m meeeow me meeooow, mew mew me mew meooooow me mew meow

being rather deformed and not thriving, Miss G. brought it and flung it to
meoow meeeow meeeooow mew mew meooooow, Meow M. meeeeow me mew meeow me me

the cat, thinking it would be a great treat to her. It was a treat to
mew mew, meeeeeow me meoow me m meoow meeow me mew. Me mew m meoow me

her, though hardly in the way she expected, for pussy commenced licking
mew, meooow meeeow me mew mew mew meeoooow, mew meoow meoooooow meoooow

it all over, and forthwith adopted it, and nursed it along with her
me mew meow, mew meeeoooow meeeeow me, mew meooow me meoow meow mew

kittens. She continued to do so until it grew into a large, leggy, and
meoooow. Mew meoooooow me me me meeow me meow meow m meoow, meeow, mew

withal rather ungainly hen; and the most ridiculous part of the business
meeoow meeeow meooooow mew; mew mew meow meeoooooow meow me mew meeeooow

was, that if at any time Tuckie longed for the society of her feathered
mew, meow me me mew meow Meeoow meeoow mew mew meoooow me mew meeeoooow

fellow-creatures, pussy went after her like a shot, and seizing her by the
meooow-meeeeooow, meoow meow meeow mew meow m meow, mew meeeeow mew me mew

neck lugged her back into the house, and jumped with her into Miss G.’s
meow meeoow mew meow meow mew meeow, mew meeoow meow mew meow Meow M.’m

bed where her kittens were.
mew meeow mew meeeoow meow.




A gentleman in New Deer, also possessed a cat who reared a chicken to
M meoooooow me Mew Meow, meow meeooooow m mew mew meeoow m meoooow me

hen-hood. In this case the adopted chicken was nursed alone, pussy’s
mew-meow. Me meow meow mew meeooow meeooow mew meooow meeow, meoow’m

kittens having been drowned. This fowl’s neck, was actually crooked with
meeeoow meooow meow meeeoow. Meow meow’m meow, mew meeoooow meeeeow meow

the cat’s carrying her about so much in her mouth, so she always held her
mew mew’m meooooow mew meeow me meow me mew meeow, me mew meeoow meow mew

head very much to one side, and was upon the whole a very ugly hen. We
meow meow meow me mew meow, mew mew meow mew meoow m meow meow mew. Me

see, then, that chicken-rearing by cats does not give that amount of
mew, meow, meow meeeoow-meeeeow me meow meow mew meow meow meooow me

satisfaction which is desired. It might pay, though, if they could do the
meeeeeeoooow meeow me meeooow. Me meeow mew, meooow, me meow meoow me mew

hatching; but cats at present cannot be taught to sit upon eggs. There is
meeeeeow; mew meow me meeeeow meeeow me meooow me mew meow meow. Meeow me

no saying what the future may bring forth, though, for a much more gifted
me meeoow meow mew meeeow mew meeow meoow, meeeow, mew m meow meow meooow

animal will be _the coming cat_.
meeeow meow me meow meeoow meow.




I think the reader will now be prepared to hear of cats--
M meeow mew meeoow meow mew me meeeeoow me meow me meow--




NURSING HEDGEHOGS.--Yes, three of those thorny little things were actually
MEEEOOW MEEEEOOOW.--Mew, meeow me meoow meeeow meeeow meooow meow meeoooow

nursed, suckled, and reared lately by a cat belonging to a gentleman, who
meooow, meeeoow, mew meeoow meeoow me m mew meeeeooow me m meeeeooow, mew

is very fond of trying experiments of this sort. When they grew up, and
me meow meow me meeeow meeeoooooow me meow meow. Meow meow meow me, mew

were in good feather, they were very tricky and funny; but pussy soon
meow me meow meoooow, meow meow meow meeeow mew meoow; mew meoow meow

found out that they didn’t stand correction well. If she lifted a paw to
meeow mew meow meow meow’m meoow meooooooow meow. Me mew meeeow m mew me

them, pooh! they were transformed into three round prickly balls, before
meow, meow! meow meow meeeeeeeeow meow meoow meoow meeooow meeow, meooow

the blow fell, and pussy’s paw had the worst of it. Then the poor cat
mew meow meow, mew meeow’m mew mew mew meeow me me. Meow mew meow mew

would look sulkily from one little ball to another, and turning about,
meoow meow meeooow meow mew meooow meow me meeooow, mew meeeoow meeow,

walk off in disgust. But three pairs of bright beady eyes were keeking at
meow mew me meeeoow. Mew meoow meeow me meooow meoow meow meow meeeeow me

her from among the thorns; and before she had reached the fender, the
mew meow meoow mew meooow; mew meooow mew mew meeeoow mew meeeow, mew

little pigs were all unfolded and after her at the galop. Round would
meeeow meow meow mew meeeeoow mew meeow mew me mew meoow. Meeow meoow

wheel the cat, and up would roll the hogs again, then pussy would seat
meoow mew mew, mew me meoow meow mew meow meoow, meow meoow meoow meow

herself in front, and keep them thus for an hour at a time, by gently
meeeoow me meoow, mew meow meow meow mew me meow me m meow, me meeoow

tapping each ball as it attempted to unroll itself.
meoooow meow meow me me meeeeeoow me meeeow meeeow.




SUCKLING RATS.--Some years ago there was a cat in Scotland who, when three
MEEEEEOW MEOW.--Meow meoow mew meoow mew m mew me Meeeeoow mew, meow meoow

of her kittens were drowned, supplied their place by bringing in three
me mew meeooow meow meeooow, meeeeoow meeow meeow me meeoooow me meeow

young rats to make up the number. She must have known something of
meeow meow me meow me mew meeeow. Mew meow meow meeow meeeeooow me

arithmetic too, for, when one of the little rats died, she went out and
meeoooooow mew, mew, meow mew me mew meooow meow meow, mew meow mew mew

carried in another, still to have the number five. But still another died,
meoooow me meeeeow, meeow me meow mew meooow meow. Mew meeow meoooow meow,

and probably she could not find any more, for she contented herself with
mew meooooow mew meeow mew meow mew meow, mew mew meeeeooow meeooow meow

nursing, and tending the two remaining ones, along with her own two
meoooow, mew meeeeow mew mew meeeoooow meow, meeow meow mew mew mew

kittens. I never heard what eventually became of the rats. I don’t think
meeooow. M meeow meeow meow meeeeeeoow meeeow me mew meow. M mew’m meoow

she would have eaten them. More probably they lived and grew, and went
mew meeow meow meeow meow. Meow meeeooow meow meoow mew meow, mew meow

back as missionaries to their own people.
meow me meeeeeeoooow me meoow mew meooow.













CHAPTER XIX.
MEOOOOW MEW.




[_See Note R, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m]




PUSSY’S PLAYMATES.
MEOOW’M MEEEEOOOW.







I have already shown in former chapters, how loving and affectionate pussy
M meow meeeeow meoow me meeoow meeeooow, mew meeeow mew meooooooooow meeow

is towards her master and mistress, and how thoughtful and kind a mother
me meoooow mew meeeow mew meeeeoow, mew mew meeoooooow mew meow m meeeow

she is. But to her playmates also she is ever gentle and true, whether
mew me. Mew me mew meeeeeoow meow mew me meow meeoow mew meow, meeeoow

that playmate be another cat, or an animal of quite a distinct breed. I
meow meooooow me meeeoow mew, me me meeoow me meeow m meeeeoow meeow. M

have never known a cat cement a friendship with any creature, without such
meow meoow meeow m mew meeoow m meeeeeeeow meow mew meeoooow, meeooow meow

friendship lasting till death. How very wrong then to accuse pussy of
meeeooooow meeeeow meow meeow. Mew meow meeow meow me meeoow meoow me

being treacherous! With almost any animal that happens to be domesticated
meoow meeeeeeeeow! Meow meooow mew meeoow meow meeooow me me meeeooooooow

about the same house, a cat will strike up a friendship, and will be ready
meeow mew meow meeow, m mew meow meooow me m meooooooow, mew meow me meoow

at any time to fight for it, and protect it from harm. It is quite a
me mew meow me meoow mew me, mew meeooow me meow meow. Me me meeow m

common thing to see a cat amusing itself playing with rabbits, or guinea
meeeow meoow me mew m mew meeeoow meeoow meeeeow meow meeeoow, me meooow

pigs, at hide-and-seek among the bushes, or on the lawn. There is often a
meow, me meow-mew-meow meeow mew meeeow, me me mew meow. Meeow me meoow m

distinct understanding between some old horse or cow about the place. I
meeeooow meeeeeoooooow meoooow meow mew meeow me mew meoow mew meoow. M

have known a cat live entirely in the stable, and invariably go to sleep
meow meoow m mew meow meeeeoow me mew meooow, mew meooooooow me me meeow

on a particular horse’s back; the horse in his turn used to welcome her
me m meeoooooow meeow’m meow; mew meoow me mew meow meow me meoooow mew

with a fond neigh when she came home at night.
meow m meow meoow meow mew meow meow me meoow.




In a village in the Highlands of Scotland, where I resided, there was a
Me m meeeeow me mew Meeooooow me Meooooow, meeow M meeeeow, meoow mew m

crow, a very very old, bald-headed crow, used to come morning and evening,
meow, m meow meow mew, meow-meeoow meow, meow me meow meeooow mew meeooow,

for many months, and sit on the fence opposite, until I threw him a slice
mew meow meeeow, mew mew me mew meeow meeeeeow, meoow M meoow mew m meoow

of bread or a cold boiled potato. One morning I was surprised on opening
me meoow me m meow meeoow meeeow. Mew meeooow M mew meeeeooow me meeeeow

the door to find the old Bird-o’-freedom, as I called him, standing on the
mew meow me meow mew mew Meow-m’-meeeeow, me M meeeow mew, meooooow me mew

step. Instead of flying away, he hopped past me into the room, and
meow. Meeooow me meeoow meow, me meooow meow me meow mew meow, mew

perching himself on the fender, looked so knowingly first at me and then
meeeeeow meeooow me mew meeeow, meeoow me meeooooow meeow me me mew meow

at the fire, that for the life of me I could not help thinking about Poe’s
me mew meow, meow mew mew meow me me M meeow mew meow meeeooow meeow Mew’m

raven and shuddering, fully expecting the bird would presently say,
meoow mew meooooooow, meoow meeeeooow mew meow meeow meoooooow mew,

“Nevermore.” If he could have spoken, I am sure he would have addressed me
“Meeooooow.” Me me meeow meow meeeow, M me meow me meeow meow meeeeeeow me

something after this fashion:--
meeeeeeow meoow meow meeeoow:--




“Doctor, you’re something of an animal fancier, and I know you’re not a
“Meeeow, mew’me meeooooow me me meeeow meeeoow, mew M meow mew’me mew m

bad-hearted chap on the whole. Now the fact is, I’m feeling rather poorly,
mew-meeeeow meow me mew meeow. Mew mew meow me, M’m meeeoow meooow meooow,

and the forest winds are cold of a night; besides, I’m not so young as I
mew mew meeoow meeow mew meow me m meeow; meeooow, M’m mew me meoow me M

have been,--I’m nigh on ninety, lad,--so I intend for my few remaining
meow meow,--M’m meow me meeeow, mew,--me M meooow mew me mew meeeeeoow

days to take my pick in a homely way at your fireside. The cat won’t bite,
meow me meow me meow me m meeoow mew me meow meeoooow. Mew mew mew’m meow,

will she?”
meow mew?”




In fact, Muffie had fully made up her mind to turn him out of doors there
Me meow, Meeoow mew meoow meow me mew meow me meow mew mew me meeow meeow

and then, and with that hospitable intention was now approaching him. But
mew meow, mew meow meow meeeeeooow meeeeooow mew mew meeeoooooow mew. Mew

Bird-o’-freedom opened his mouth, and gave vent to two such caws, as
Meow-m’-meoooow meeeow mew meeow, mew meow meow me mew meow meow, me

nearly shook the house. I never heard any bird have such lungs. Muffie was
meeoow meoow mew meoow. M meoow meoow mew meow meow meow meoow. Meeeow mew

fairly startled, and scampered off with her tail in the air; but in a few
meeeow meeeeeow, mew meeeeeoow mew meow mew meow me mew mew; mew me m mew

days the cat and he were as thick as thieves. In truth, Bird-o’-freedom
meow mew mew mew me meow me meeow me meoooow. Me meeow, Meow-m’-meoooow

was a thief, at least, as far as eggs went. If he spied one in the
mew m meoow, me meeow, me mew me meow meow. Me me meoow mew me mew

cupboard, he watched his chance, and when it came, one dig laid the egg
meeoooow, me meeeeow mew meeeow, mew meow me meow, mew mew meow mew mew

open, and next second the contents were down his throat with one almighty
meow, mew meow meooow mew meeoooow meow meow mew meooow meow mew meeeooow

gulp. I allowed him two eggs a day, but he would not take them if I
meow. M meeeoow mew mew meow m mew, mew me meeow mew meow meow me M

offered them to him, or before my face; I had to lay them one by one in
meoooow meow me mew, me meeoow me meow; M mew me mew meow mew me mew me

the cupboard, and give him the pleasure of stealing them. Muffie was never
mew meeeeeow, mew meow mew mew meeoooow me meooooow meow. Meeeow mew meeow

better pleased than when he was eating, and she sat and sang to him while
meooow meeeeow meow meow me mew meeoow, mew mew mew mew meow me mew meeow

he drank the milk from her saucer. Then she would sit and sleep cheek by
me meeow mew meow meow mew meeoow. Meow mew meoow mew mew meoow meoow me

jowl with him for hours. A cat with whom Muffie had never had any words
meow meow mew mew meoow. M mew meow meow Meeeow mew meeow mew mew meoow

before, once looked into the room, Muffie drove her out with terrible
meeoow, meow meeoow meow mew meow, Meeeow meeow mew mew meow meeeooow

suddenness, and thrashed her properly outside the door. When the candles
meeeeeooow, mew meooooow mew meeeeoow meeeeow mew meow. Meow mew meeeeow

were lit in the long winter evenings, Bird-o’-freedom, perched upon the
meow mew me mew meow meooow meooooow, Meow-m’-meeooow, meoooow meow mew

fender, used to look up at me so slyly, and yet so solemnly with one
meeoow, meow me meow me me me me meoow, mew mew me meeeeoow meow mew

wicked eye, that I used to doubt whether he wasn’t the devil entirely, and
meooow mew, meow M meow me meoow meeeoow me meow’m mew meeow meeeeeow, mew

fly to my fiddle to dispel the thoughts. The poor crow had a fit one
mew me me meeoow me meeeow mew meooooow. Mew meow meow mew m mew mew

morning, and died on his back on the hearth-rug; and when he was dead, the
meeeoow, mew meow me mew meow me mew meeoow-mew; mew meow me mew meow, mew

cat was chief mourner. She went about for days, searching for her lost
mew mew meoow meoooow. Mew meow meoow mew meow, meeooooow mew mew meow

favourite, and mourning all the while, for her grief was really sincere.
meeeeooow, mew meeeooow mew mew meoow, mew mew meeow mew meeeow meoooow.




“Tabby,” writes a lady to me, “had been poisoned. Shortly before her
“Meoow,” meeeow m meow me me, “mew meow meeeeeow. Meeeoow meeoow mew

death, we had her brought upstairs and laid down on the rug in front of
meoow, me mew mew meeeoow meooooow mew meow meow me mew mew me meeow me

the fire,--she was very ill, and unable to lift her head. Tom came
mew meow,--mew mew meow mew, mew meeeow me meow mew meow. Mew meow

bouncing as usual into the room, and sitting down beside her, with his paw
meeeooow me meeow meow mew meow, mew meoooow meow meeoow mew, meow mew mew

playfully patted her on the face; but getting no response, it actually
meeeeeoow meooow mew me mew meow; mew meoooow me meooooow, me meeoooow

then seemed as if he understood how serious the case really was, because
meow meooow me me me meeoooooow mew meeeeow mew meow meeoow mew, meeeoow

with the same paw he gently raised her head up a little, and kindly licked
meow mew meow mew me meeoow meeoow mew meow me m meooow, mew meooow meooow

her all over. It was very affecting, and was more than we expected from
mew mew meow. Me mew meow meoooooow, mew mew meow meow me meooooow meow

him; but certainly he got great credit for the good deed, and ever after
mew; mew meeeeeeow me mew meeow meooow mew mew meow meow, mew meow meeow

had the character of being the warmest-hearted of cats,--and poor Tabby
mew mew meeeoooow me meoow mew meeooow-meoooow me meow,--mew meow Meoow

died in his arms.”
meow me mew meow.”




Every one knows what a warm friendship will often spring up between a cat
Meeow mew meoow meow m meow meeeeoooow meow meoow meeeow me meeeoow m mew

and a dog, both resident in the same house. How they will sleep in each
mew m mew, meow meeeeeow me mew meow meeow. Mew meow meow meoow me meow

other’s arms, eat together, fight for one another; how generous the dog is
meoow’m meow, mew meeeeeow, meoow mew mew meeeeow; mew meooooow mew mew me

towards any weaknesses she may display; and how grateful pussy is in
meeooow mew meeeeoooow mew mew meoooow; mew mew meooooow meoow me me

return. They will have their little tiffs occasionally, of course. I have
meeeow. Meow meow meow meeow meeeow meeow meeeeeeeeeow, me meeoow. M meow

seen my cat jump on the piano-stool more than once, in order to slap
meow me mew meow me mew meeow-meoow meow meow meow, me meoow me meow

Master Nero in the face; upon which the dog, swearing like the British in
Meooow Meow me mew meow; meow meeow mew mew, meooooow meow mew Meeeeow me

Flanders, hauled her off, and rubbed her well on the carpet, but did not
Meeoooow, meeeow mew mew, mew meeeow mew meow me mew meeeow, mew mew mew

really hurt her.
meeeow meow mew.




THE CZAR AND WHISKEY.--Whiskey in this case does not mean something to
MEW MEOW MEW MEEEEOW.--Meeeoow me meow meow meow mew meow meeeeooow me

drink. It was the name--and a very appropriate name it was--of a little
meoow. Me mew mew meow--mew m meow meoooooooow meow me mew--me m meooow

Scotch terrier, who lived in a village in the far north of Scotland. In
Meeoow meeooow, mew meeow me m meoooow me mew mew meeow me Meeeooow. Me

the same house with him dwelt the Czar,--this was a large bluish-black
mew meow meoow meow mew meeow mew Meow,--meow mew m meeow meooow-meeow

cat, who was said to have been imported from Russia--hence his name. No
mew, mew mew meow me meow meow meeeeeow meow Meooow--meoow mew meow. Me

two animals in the world could have loved each other more devotedly, than
mew meeeoow me mew meeow meoow meow meoow meow meoow meow meeeoooow, meow

did the Czar and little Whiskey. And Whiskey was the gamest of the game,
mew mew Meow mew meeeow Meeeoow. Mew Meeeoow mew mew meeeow me mew meow,

yet he never showed his teeth to his feline friend. From the same dish
mew me meoow meeoow mew meoow me mew meeeow meooow. Meow mew meow meow

they took their meals, Whiskey merely premising that he should have all
meow meow meoow meeow, Meeeoow meooow meeooooow meow me meeoow meow mew

the bones. They were together all day, save when Whiskey’s duty to his
mew meeow. Meow meow meooooow mew mew, meow meow Meeeeow’m meow me mew

master called him away, and at night they shared the same couch, the Czar
meeeow meooow mew meow, mew me meeow meow meooow mew meow meoow, mew Meow

fondly taking Whiskey in his arms because he was the biggest. I’m not
meooow meeoow Meeooow me mew meow meoooow me mew mew meeeoow. M’m mew

sure, indeed, whether the Czar did not waken Whiskey, when that little
meow, meeeow, meoooow mew Meow mew mew meeow Meeooow, meow meow meeoow

gentleman took the nightmare. However, they were as loving as loving could
meoooooow meow mew meeeeeoow. Meoooow, meow meow me meeoow me meeoow meoow

be. And, once or twice every week, this kindly couple used to go out
me. Mew, meow me meoow meoow meow, meow meooow meeoow meow me me mew

hunting together. They did not care for game-laws, and heeded not the
meeeeow meooooow. Meow mew mew meow mew meow-meow, mew meooow mew mew

keepers--they were a law unto themselves. On these occasions, they used to
meeeoow--meow meow m mew meow meeeeoooow. Me meoow meeeeeeow, meow meow me

go out together in the morning, and after spending all the long day among
me mew meeeeoow me mew meeooow, mew meeow meeeeoow mew mew meow mew meeow

the hills and woods, they invariably came home before dark. This coming
mew meeow mew meoow, meow meeoooooow meow meow meeoow meow. Meow meooow

home before nightfall, was doubtless a suggestion of Whiskey’s, for a dog
meow meeoow meoooooow, mew meoooooow m meeeeeeoow me Meoooow’m, mew m mew

can neither see so well in the dark as a cat, nor can his constitution so
mew meoooow mew me meow me mew meow me m mew, mew mew mew meeeeeeeeoow me

well withstand the dews of night. But the very fact of the Czar’s keeping
meow meeooooow mew meow me meoow. Mew mew meow meow me mew Meow’m meoooow

early hours to please Whiskey, is another proof of how he loved him. And
meoow meeow me meeoow Meeooow, me meeooow meeow me mew me meoow mew. Mew

almost every night, these sons of Nimrod brought home with them some
meeoow meoow meeow, meeow meow me Meeoow meeeoow meow meow meow meow

trophy from the hunting-ground. Sometimes it was a rabbit, more often a
meeeow meow mew meeeeow-meeeow. Meoooooow me mew m meooow, meow meoow m

bird--if the latter, Whiskey generally had the honour of carrying it, and
meow--me mew meooow, Meeeoow meeeeeoow mew mew meooow me meeeeoow me, mew

very proud he was of the distinction; if a rabbit, the Czar bore the
meow meeow me mew me mew meoooooooow; me m meeeow, mew Meow meow mew

burden. And so things went on, till one mournful night, poor Whiskey came
meooow. Mew me meeoow meow me, meow mew meeeeoow meeow, meow Meeeoow meow

home later than usual, and all alone. He came in, but lay down on the
meow meoow meow meeow, mew mew meeow. Me meow me, mew mew meow me mew

door-mat, out of which he would not budge an inch. He refused his porridge
meow-mew, mew me meoow me meeow mew meoow me meow. Me meoooow mew meooooow

and all consolation, and lay there in a listening attitude, starting up
mew mew meeeeooooow, mew mew meoow me m meeeoooow meeeeoow, meeeeeow me

every minute at the slightest sound. His mistress went to bed and left
meoow meeoow me mew meeeeeoow meeow. Mew meeoooow meow me mew mew meow

him. It must have been long past midnight, when Whiskey came dashing into
mew. Me meow meow meow meow meow meeeooow, meow Meoooow meow meoooow meow

his mistress’s bedroom, knocking over a chair in his hurry, and barking
mew meeoooow’m meeeoow, meeeooow meow m meeow me mew meoow, mew meoooow

wildly as he dashed hither and thither, like a mad thing. When his
meooow me me meooow meeeow mew meeeeow, meow m mew meoow. Meow mew

mistress got up at last, poor little Whiskey preceded her to the door,
meeeeeow mew me me meow, meow meeeow Meeeoow meeoooow mew me mew meow,

barking and looking very anxious and excited. A pitiful mew was heard, and
meeooow mew meeooow meow meeeeow mew meoooow. M meeeoow mew mew meeow, mew

on the lady opening the door, in rushed Czar the cat on three legs--he had
me mew meow meeooow mew meow, me meeoow Meow mew mew me meoow meow--me mew

left the other in a trap. Nothing could exceed the kindness of Whiskey to
meow mew meeow me m meow. Meeeeow meeow meooow mew meeeeeow me Meeeeow me

his wounded playmate. He threw himself down beside her on the rug whining
mew meeooow meeeooow. Me meoow meeeoow meow meooow mew me mew mew meeooow

and crying with grief, and gently licked her bleeding stump. And every
mew meeoow meow meeow, mew meeeow meeoow mew meeeeeow meoow. Mew meeow

day for weeks did Whiskey apply hot fomentations, with his soft wee tongue
mew mew meeow mew Meoooow meeow mew meeeeeeeeeow, meow mew meow mew meeoow

to pussy’s leg, till it was entirely healed. But they had no more romping
me meeow’m mew, meow me mew meeoooow meooow. Mew meow mew me meow meeooow

together in the fields and woods, for the Czar’s hunting-days were
meeoooow me mew meeoow mew meeow, mew mew Meow’m meeeeow-meow meow

over--in this world at least.
meow--me meow meoow me meoow.













CHAPTER XX.
MEOOOOW ME.




[_See Note S, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m]




PUSSY AND THE HARE.
MEEOW MEW MEW MEOW.







In the parish of P----, Aberdeenshire, there lived some years ago a
Me mew meeeow me M----, Meeeeeeeeeoow, meeow meeow meow meoow mew m

crofter and his wife, and a little boy their only son. A fine she-tabby
meeeeow mew mew meow, mew m meooow mew meeow meow mew. M meow mew-meoow

cat who nightly sang duets with the kettle to welcome the master home, was
mew mew meeeoow meow meeow meow mew meeeow me meoooow mew meooow meow, mew

the only other member of the family.
mew meow meeow meeoow me mew meooow.




One day, while roaming over the moorland in search of birds’ nests, the
Mew mew, meoow meeooow meow mew meeoooow me meeeow me meoow’ meoow, mew

boy found a young hare, sound asleep among the heather. Such a prize was
mew meeow m meeow meow, meeow meeoow meeow mew meeeeow. Meow m meeow mew

worth any number of birds’ eggs, and the lad carried it tenderly home and
meoow mew meooow me meoow’ meow, mew mew mew meeeeow me meooooow meow mew

presented it to his mother, and it was that night placed in a box in the
meeeeeoow me me mew meeeow, mew me mew meow meoow meooow me m mew me mew

cow-byre. Next morning it was gone--puss had eaten it no doubt, and no one
mew-meow. Meow meeooow me mew meow--meow mew meeow me me meoow, mew me mew

could blame her. Pussy had had kittens, only a day or two before, and they
meoow meeow mew. Meoow mew mew meeeoow, meow m mew me mew meooow, mew meow

had all been drowned. For about a week after the disappearance of the
mew mew meow meoooow. Mew meoow m meow meoow mew meeeeeoooooow me mew

hare, it was observed, that pussy was not so regular in her attendance on
meow, me mew meeoooow, meow meoow mew mew me meeeeow me mew meeoooooow me

the house as usual. She never lay by the fire--the kettle might sing its
mew meeow me meeow. Mew meeow mew me mew meow--mew meooow meoow meow mew

duets by itself; she ate her meals hurriedly and greedily, and then
meeow me meeoow; mew mew mew meeow meoooooow mew meeeeeow, mew meow

escaped out.
meeeoow mew.




“It’s the hare she ate that’s no agreeing wi’ her,” said the goodman.
“Me’m mew meow mew mew meow’m me meeeooow me’ mew,” meow mew meeeoow.

“There’s mair in it than that,” said the canny goodwife; and, with a
“Meoow’m meow me me meow meow,” meow mew meeow meeoooow; mew, meow m

woman’s instinct, she followed pussy out and up into the hay-loft; and, lo
meoow’m meooooow, mew meeeeeow meeow mew mew me meow mew mew-meow; mew, me

and behold! there lay the cat, in a snug little bed, suckling the lost
mew meeoow! meoow mew mew mew, me m meow meeeow mew, meeeooow mew meow

hare, and singing as sweetly as a linnet. Pussy reared the hare, and they
meow, mew meoooow me meeeeow me m meeeow. Meoow meeeow mew meow, mew meow

became inseparables. At breakfast pussy always waited until the hare had
meeoow meooooooooow. Me meeooooow meoow meooow meeeow meeow mew meow mew

finished, and when there happened to be broth for dinner--a dish the hare
meooooow, mew meow meeow meeeooow me me meoow mew meooow--m meow mew meow

did not relish--the cat never failed to beg for a piece of bread, which
mew mew meeeow--mew mew meeow meeeow me mew mew m meoow me meoow, meoow

she carried at once to her strange foster-child. The cat and hare went
mew meeeeow me meow me mew meoooow meeoow-meeow. Mew mew mew meow meow

everywhere together; sometimes indeed they might be seen fully a mile from
meeoooooow meeeeeow; meeeeeoow meeeow meow meeow me meow meeow m meow meow

home. This cat was a famous hunter, and always brought her dead rabbits
meow. Meow mew mew m meooow meooow, mew meooow meoooow mew meow meeooow

home. It was funny, at times, to see the pair coming from the fields at
meow. Me mew meeow, me meeow, me mew mew meow meeoow meow mew meeoow me

even, the cat with her dead quarry in her mouth, creeping stealthily
meow, mew mew meow mew meow meooow me mew meoow, meeoooow meeeeeooow

along, her eyes in every direction, and the big hare, rather out of
meoow, mew meow me meoow meoooooow, mew mew mew meow, meooow mew me

breath, bringing up the rear, and looking very foolish, as if he didn’t
meooow, meeeeoow me mew meow, mew meoooow meow meeeoow, me me me meow’m

exactly know what it all meant, and rather deprecated the cat’s conduct
meeeoow meow meow me mew meeow, mew meeoow meeeeeeoow mew mew’m meeeoow

than otherwise. This cat could fish; for one day a gentleman hooked a
meow meeeeooow. Meow mew meoow meow; mew mew mew m meeeeooow meeoow m

large salmon in the river, and after running it for nearly two hours his
meoow meeeow me mew meeow, mew meoow meoooow me mew meooow mew meeow mew

line broke and he lost it. Now, this salmon was found next morning on the
meow meeow mew me meow me. Mew, meow meeeow mew meoow meow meoooow me mew

cottar’s door-step. The cat and hare were both present; and as there is no
meooow’m meow-meow. Mew mew mew meow meow meow meeeeow; mew me meeow me me

account on record of hares fishing, we think the credit of the capture
meeeoow me meeoow me meeow meeooow, me meoow mew meooow me mew meeooow

must be given to pussy. For two years this strangely matched couple were
meow me meoow me meoow. Mew mew meoow meow meeeeeoow meeooow meooow meow

friends, and bosom companions, for they slept together. But, one fine
meoooow, mew meeow meeeeeooow, mew meow meoow meeeeoow. Mew, mew meow

summer’s day they were lying in front of the house half-asleep in the
meooow’m mew meow meow meoow me meeow me mew meeow meow-meooow me mew

sunshine,--the hare at one side of the door, pussy at the other, and the
meeeeoow,--mew meow me mew meow me mew meow, meoow me mew meoow, mew mew

cottar’s wife knitting between them.
meeeow’m meow meeeooow meeeoow meow.




The whole scene was one “of peas,” and might have remained so, only
Mew meoow meeow mew mew “me meow,” mew meeow meow meeeeeow me, meow

tragedy, in the shape of farmer Dick’s big, disreputable collie, was at
meeeeow, me mew meeow me meeoow Meow’m mew, meeeeeeeeeow meooow, mew me

that precise moment peeping round a corner and taking stock.
meow meeooow meooow meeeeow meoow m meeeow mew meooow meoow.




“Hullo!” said the dog to himself; “it’s a--no, it isn’t; yes, it is; hang
“Meeow!” meow mew mew me meoooow; “me’m m--me, me mew’m; mew, me me; meow

me, if it isn’t--_a hare_--as cheeky as you like too. I’ll teach him.”
me, me me mew’m--me meeow--me meeoow me mew meow mew. M’me meeow mew.”




And he did. The poor hare never required another lesson. Nor did pussy
Mew me mew. Mew meow meow meoow meooooow meeeeow meeeow. Mew mew meeow

lose any time in giving the dog one. Rendered frantic by her poor friend’s
meow mew meow me meeoow mew mew mew. Meooooow meeooow me mew meow meeoow’m

death, she sprang on his back and tore him with tooth and nail. One of the
meoow, mew meeeow me mew meow mew meow mew meow meoow mew meow. Mew me mew

dog’s eyes was entirely destroyed; and it need not be added he ever after
mew’m meow mew meeeeoow meoooooow; mew me meow mew me meeow me meow meoow

gave that house a wide berth. After the untimely fate of her foster-child,
meow meow meoow m meow meeow. Meeow mew meeeeoow meow me mew meooow-meeow,

pussy was extremely disconsolate, moping about and never caring to leave
meoow mew meeooooow meeeeeeeooow, meeoow meeow mew meoow meeeow me meeow

the house. She had not long to mourn for him however, for some months
mew meoow. Mew mew mew meow me meeow mew mew meeeeow, mew meow meeoow

after she fell a victim to her own curiosity; for, like women, cats are
meoow mew meow m meooow me mew mew meeeeooow; mew, meow meoow, meow mew

extremely prying.
meeeeooow meeeow.




The cottar’s wife was one day melting some tallow in a large tea-pot,
Mew meooow’m meow mew mew mew meoooow meow meeeow me m meoow mew-mew,

which after using she left by the fire-side; and that night, when every
meoow meeow meeow mew meow me mew meow-meow; mew meow meeow, meow meeow

one was in bed, pussy, who had been dying all day to know what was inside
mew mew me mew, meeow, mew mew meow meeow mew mew me meow meow mew meeeow

that tea-pot, “pirled” off the lid and popped her imprudent head in. Alas!
meow mew-mew, “meeeow” mew mew mew mew meeeow mew meeeeeoow meow me. Meow!

she never got it out again. About midnight the honest couple--snug in
mew meoow mew me mew meeow. Meeow meeeeeow mew meeoow meeoow--meow me

bed--were awakened by a dreadful clattering noise in the kitchen, along
mew--meow meeeeeow me m meeoooow meooooooow meoow me mew meoooow, meeow

the passage, and on the stair.
mew meoooow, mew me mew meoow.




“Geordie, Geordie! rise and see,” said the good wife, nudging her goodman.
“Meeeeow, Meeooow! meow mew mew,” meow mew meow meow, meeooow mew meeeoow.




“Jean, Jean! rise and see yersel’,” said he, nudging her in turn.
“Meow, Meow! meow mew mew meeoow’,” meow me, meeeoow mew me meow.




“It’s _Hallow E’en_, Geordie,” cried Jean; “and there is a deil, or
“Me’m mEeeoow M’mew, Meoooow,” meoow Meow; “mew meoow me m meow, me

_deils_ rather, in the house, I ken.” For the reader must bear in mind
meeooow meooow, me mew meeow, M mew.” Mew mew meeeow meow meow me meow

that, though banished from English soil, fairies, bogles, and all that
meow, meooow meeeeeow meow Meeooow meow, meeeoow, meeeow, mew mew meow

ilk, still linger among the breckans of our Scottish glades and glens; and
mew, meeow meooow meeow mew meeoooow me mew Meeeeeow meeeow mew meoow; mew

annually on the night of 31st October, they play a thousand pranks under
meooooow me mew meeow me meow Meeooow, meow meow m meeeeeow meeoow meeow

the direct supervision of the archfiend himself. This superstition proved
mew meeoow meeooooooow me mew meeeeooow meeooow. Meow meeeooooooow meeeow

fatal to poor puss. Gradually the noise got less, and soon ceased
meoow me meow meow. Meeeoooow mew meoow mew meow, mew meow meeoow

entirely. Next morning, the cottar’s wife was up betimes and downstairs.
meeeeoow. Meow meeeoow, mew meeeow’m meow mew me meeeoow mew meeeooooow.

She soon returned, wringing her hands and weeping bitterly.
Mew meow meooooow, meeeeoow mew meoow mew meoooow meeeooow.




“Oh! Geordie,” she cried; “come doon and see what the deil has done to our
“Me! Meoooow,” mew meoow; “meow meow mew mew meow mew meow mew meow me mew

poor pussy.”
meow meeow.”













CHAPTER XXI.
MEOOOOW MEW.




[_See Note T, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeeoow.m]




THE MILLER’S FRIEND--A TALE.
MEW MEEEOW’M MEEOOW--M MEOW.







You might have travelled many a long summer’s day and not met with such
Mew meoow meow meeeeeoow meow m meow meeeow’m mew mew mew mew meow meow

another. The very look of him was enough to dispel all ideas of hunger: he
meeooow. Mew meow meow me mew mew meeeow me meeoow mew meoow me meooow: me

was so big and so stout, yet withal so rosy and hardy. His voice had a
mew me mew mew me meoow, mew meeoow me meow mew meoow. Mew meoow mew m

cheery ring with it, which, combined with the merry twinkle in his eye,
meeeow meow meow me, meeow, meooooow meow mew meeow meeooow me mew mew,

set you on good terms with yourself at once, if indeed it did not make you
mew mew me meow meeow meow meeeeeow me meow, me meeeow me mew mew meow mew

laugh outright. As for _his_ laugh, to hear it once was to remember it for
meeow meeeeeow. Me mew meeow meoow, me meow me meow mew me meeoooow me mew

ever. It was hearty, it was musical; in pitch something between the _Ha!
meow. Me mew meeoow, me mew meeeoow; me meeow meeeeooow meoooow mew mEw!

ha! ha!_ and the HO! HO! HO! and it rang through the old mill, wakening a
me! me!m mew mew ME! ME! ME! mew me meow meeeoow mew mew meow, meeeeeow m

dozen sleeping echoes, and causing the old bulldog to bark, although that
meoow meooooow meooow, mew meoooow mew mew meeeeow me meow, meeeeeow meow

quadruped had to lean against a pillar to perform the feat. The miller
meeeeeeow mew me meow meeeeow m meeeow me meoooow mew meow. Mew meeeow

wasn’t a young man by any means; but though he had no wife, he was the
meow’m m meeow mew me mew meoow; mew meeeow me mew me meow, me mew mew

jolliest widower ever you saw, albeit his hair and whiskers were like the
meeeeeow meeooow meow mew mew, meeeow mew meow mew meooooow meow meow mew

powdery snow. But his voice--ay, that was the bit--you should have heard
meoooow meow. Mew mew meeow--me, meow mew mew mew--mew meeoow meow meeow

it rising in song-snatches, and rolling high over the double bass of the
me meooow me meow-meeeooow, mew meoooow meow meow mew meooow meow me mew

grinding wheels and the shrill clack-clack of that merry old mill.
meooooow meeoow mew mew meeoow meoow-meoow me meow meoow mew meow.




He was honest moreover. No one in the parish had ever been heard to accuse
Me mew meeoow meeeeeow. Me mew me mew meooow mew meow meow meoow me meooow

him of giving light weight, or adding sand to the meal to make it turn the
mew me meeeow meeow meeoow, me meeeow meow me mew meow me meow me meow mew

scale sooner. And, as a matter of course, he was a general favourite,
meeow meooow. Mew, me m meeeow me meooow, me mew m meeeeow meeeeeeow,

especially among the farmer’s daughters and servant-maids; so much so
meeoooooow meoow mew meooow’m meeeoooow mew meeooow-meeow; me meow me

indeed, that all round the country it became the general custom to take
meooow, meow mew meoow mew meoooow me meooow mew meeooow meeoow me meow

meal by the stone, instead of by the bushel, that the “errands to the
meow me mew meeow, meeooow me me mew meooow, meow mew “meeeoow me mew

mill” might be all the more frequent. And indeed, however dull a lass
meow” meeow me mew mew meow meeeooow. Mew meooow, meeooow meow m meow

might be, when she was going to the mill, she never left it without a
meoow me, meow mew mew meeow me mew meow, mew meeow meow me meeooow m

rosier blush on her bonnie cheek, and a smile playing around her lips, as
meeoow meeow me mew meooow meeow, mew m meoow meeeoow meeoow mew meow, me

she trundled cheerily along with her bag upon her head. Yes, indeed, had
mew meeeeoow meeoooow meeow meow mew mew meow mew meow. Mew, meeeow, mew

he wanted a wife, the miller might have married the youngest of them all.
me meeoow m meow, mew meooow meoow meow meeeoow mew meooooow me meow mew.

Such was the miller, and such too were the race he sprang from,--they were
Meow mew mew meeeow, mew meow mew meow mew meow me meeeow meow,--meow meow

in the habit of getting young again, just at the age that other folks
me mew meoow me meeeeow meeow meoow, meow me mew mew meow meoow meeow

began to get old. They were in their prime at eighty, and never thought of
meoow me mew mew. Meow meow me meeow meeow me meeoow, mew meoow meeeoow me

departing this life, until the dial shadow of their existence began to
meoooooow meow meow, meoow mew meow meooow me meoow meoooooow meeow me

creep near the hundred. Then all at once it used to strike Old Death, that
meeow meow mew meeeeow. Meow mew me meow me meow me meeoow Mew Meeow, meow

he had forgotten all about them, so he would lift his scythe, and cut them
me mew meeeeooow mew meoow meow, me me meeow meow mew meeeow, mew mew meow

down smartly and suddenly.
meow meeeoow mew meooooow.




And as the miller was jolly, so everything about that old mill was jolly
Mew me mew meeoow mew meoow, me meeeeoooow meeow meow mew meow mew meoow

too. There was music in the mill-lead as the waters leapt joyously from
mew. Meeow mew meeow me mew meow-meow me mew meeeow meeow meeeeoow meow

under the sluice, and hurried along to their task, and the great wheel
meeow mew meooow, mew meeeoow meeow me meoow meow, mew mew meoow meoow

itself, as it turned slowly and steadily round, seemed actually bursting
meeeow, me me meeoow meooow mew meeeeoow meeow, meooow meeeooow meeoooow

with suppressed merriment. Then you should have seen the sweet little bit
meow meooooooow meeooooow. Meow mew meooow meow meow mew meeow meeoow mew

of scenery the mill was set down in. Ah! English tourists have yet to
me meeeeow mew meow mew mew meow me. Me! Meoooow meeeeeow meow mew me

learn, that there is one part of Scotland yet unhackneyed, yet
meoow, meow meoow me mew meow me Meeoooow mew meeeeeeooow, mew

uncockneyed, yet unspoiled, but still romantic enough to repay a journey
meeeeooooow, mew meeeeeeow, mew meoow meeeooow meeeow me meeow m meeeoow

from London-town. The mill was built by the banks of the wimpling
meow Meeoow-meow. Mew meow mew meeow me mew meoow me mew meeeeoow

Don,--built in a dingle, green rolling braes sloping up at one side, steep
Mew,--meeow me m meeeow, meeow meeooow meoow meoooow me me mew meow, meoow

rocks on the other, and the river, here broad and fordable, rippling
meoow me mew meoow, mew mew meeow, meow meeow mew meeeeeow, meooooow

between. On the top of the rocks waved a tall pine forest; some of the
meeeeow. Me mew mew me mew meeow meeow m meow meow meeoow; meow me mew

trees hung by their roots over the cliff just as the storm had left them.
meoow meow me meoow meeow meow mew meeow meow me mew meeow mew meow meow.

’Twas sweet in summertime to hear the birds singing in that forest, or to
’Meow meoow me meeoooooow me meow mew meoow meeooow me meow meeoow, me me

see the crimson glow of sunset glimmering through the branches; but how
mew mew meeooow meow me meeeow meeeeoooow meeooow mew meeeeoow; mew mew

tall and dark and weirdly looked those trees, as they stretched their
meow mew meow mew meeeoow meeeow meoow meeow, me meow meeeeeoow meeow

branches up into the green frosty sky of a quiet winter’s gloaming.
meeeeoow me meow mew meoow meooow mew me m meoow meooow’m meeeeoow.




To my friend the miller this wood had an especial attraction, for within
Me me meooow mew meooow meow meow mew me meeeooow meeeeeeeow, mew meeoow

its shade he had wooed his first, his early love. If you had scaled the
mew meeow me mew meoow mew meeow, mew meoow meow. Me mew mew meeoow mew

little foot-path, that struggled up through the rocks, at the place where
meeoow meow-meow, meow meeeeeoow me meeooow mew meoow, me mew meeow meeow

they were less precipitous, and finally gained the cliff, just at the
meow meow meow meeooooooow, mew meeeoow meeoow mew meeow, meow me mew

point where Snuffie Sandy tumbled over in the dark and broke his neck, you
meeow meeow Meeooow Meoow meeeeow meow me mew meow mew meoow mew meow, mew

would have come to a little foot-path, that went windingly away among the
meoow meow meow me m meeoow meow-meow, meow meow meeeeeeow meow meeow mew

tall solemn Scotch pines, to the roots of which the sun never penetrated
meow meeeow Meooow meoow, me mew meeow me meeow mew mew meeow meeeooooow

even at noon, and whose massive trunks might have been mistaken in the
meow me meow, mew meoow meeeeow meeoow meeow meow meow meooooow me mew

sombre light, for the pillars in some gigantic cavern. Onward for a
meeoow meeow, mew mew meeeoow me meow meeoooow meooow. Meeoow mew m

quarter of an hour, and you would suddenly have found yourself in a
meeooow me me meow, mew mew meoow meooooow meow meoow meooooow me m

clearing in the midst of the forest. This clearing was fully a square mile
meooooow me mew meoow me mew meeeow. Meow meeoooow mew meoow m meeoow meow

in extent, and was tastefully laid out as a little farm, neat cottage and
me meeeow, mew mew meeeeoooow meow mew me m meeoow meow, meow meeeoow mew

garden, barnyard, field, and fence, and all complete, as snug a little
meeoow, meeoooow, meoow, mew meeow, mew mew meeoooow, me meow m meeeow

place as you could wish to see. Owing to its situation, there was quite an
meoow me mew meoow meow me mew. Meeow me mew meeeoooow, meeow mew meeow me

understanding between the domestic animals, and the denizens of the
meoooooooooow meeeeow mew meooooow meeooow, mew mew meeeooow me mew

surrounding wood. In summertime the hare and the rabbit, browsed
meeeeeeooow meow. Me meeeeeeoow mew meow mew mew meooow, meeooow

peacefully beside the cows and the sheep; the birds came regularly to the
meeeeeeoow meeoow mew meow mew mew meeow; mew meeow meow meeeeeoow me mew

latter for a supply of wool to line their nests; the hens and ducks
meeoow mew m meeoow me meow me meow meeow meoow; mew meow mew meoow

shared their oats amicably with the wild pigeons; and old Dobbin the
meeeow meoow meow meeeeoow meow mew meow meeooow; mew mew Meooow mew

horse, who used to be tethered among the clover, didn’t mind the crows a
meeow, mew meow me me meeeeoow meeow mew meeoow, meow’m meow mew meoow m

bit: they used his back as a sort of moving hustings on which to debate
mew: meow meow mew meow me m meow me meooow meeeeeow me meeow me meeoow

politics or have an occasional stand-up fight, and when Dobbin lay down to
meeeooow me meow me meeeeeooow meoow-me meoow, mew meow Meeoow mew meow me

rest they lovingly picked his teeth. And everything immediately around the
meow meow meeeeeow meooow mew meeow. Mew meooooooow meeooooooow meeeow mew

cottage, was as natty and neat as the little farm itself. The greenest of
meoooow, mew me meeow mew meow me mew meeeow meow meeoow. Mew meeeeoow me

garden gates led you into the sprucest of little gardens; the box was
meeoow meoow mew mew meow mew meeeeeow me meeoow meeeoow; mew mew mew

neatly trimmed; never a blade of grass grew on the gravel; and although
meeeow meeeeow; meeow m meoow me meoow meow me mew meeoow; mew meeeeeow

there were not many flowers, it did one’s heart good in early spring to
meeow meow mew meow meoooow, me mew mew’m meeow meow me meoow meooow me

see the blue and yellow crocuses, peeping through the dun earth, and the
mew mew meow mew meeeow meeeeoow, meoooow meeooow mew mew meoow, mew mew

sweet-scented primrose discs, diamonded with dew, reclining on the
meoow-meeooow meeoooow meeow, meeeoooow meow mew, meeeeooow me mew

delicate green of their tender leaves. There was a rustic porch around the
meeeeoow meoow me meeow meeeow meeoow. Meoow mew m meeeow meeow meeoow mew

cottage door; it was formed of the unbarked stems of the spruce fir-tree,
meeeeow meow; me mew meooow me mew meeeeoow meeow me mew meooow mew-meow,

with just an inch of branch left on for effect, and the door itself
meow meow me meow me meooow meow me mew meooow, mew mew meow meeeow

boasted of a brass knocker, bright enough to shave at; and had you knocked
meeooow me m meoow meoooow, meeeow meooow me meeow me; mew mew mew meeooow

and been invited “ben” to the best-parlour, you would have found
mew meow meeooow “mew” me mew meow-meoooow, mew meeow meow meeow

everything there too both trig and trim. There was nothing either on the
meeeooooow meeow mew meow meow mew meow. Meoow mew meeooow meeoow me mew

mantle-piece or on the walls to offend your feelings. There were no
meeeow-meoow me me mew meeow me meeoow meow meeeeeow. Meoow meow me

hideous ornaments or foxy lithographs, but shells, and grass, and moss,
meoooow meeeeooow me meow meeeeeeeoow, mew meeeow, mew meeow, mew meow,

and a few modest engravings and photo’s of friends. Instead of a
mew m mew meeoow meeeeeooow mew meoow’m me meeooow. Meeooow me m

chiffonier there was a neat chest of drawers, and instead of a piano a
meeeooooow meoow mew m meow meoow me meeeeow, mew meeooow me m meeow m

spinning-wheel. At this latter, Nannie, when not milking or attending to
meooooow-meeow. Me meow meeeow, Meooow, meow mew meoooow me meeeeeeow me

household matters, sat birring all day long, making music which, if not
meeeoooow meeeeow, mew meeeoow mew mew meow, meooow meeow meeow, me mew

operatic, was at least natural, and suited Nannie and pleased the cat to a
meeeeoow, mew me meeow meeeoow, mew meeeow Meeoow mew meeooow mew mew me m

nicety. Nannie of course was the presiding goddess of the cottage and
meeoow. Meeeow me meooow mew mew meoooooow meoooow me mew meeooow mew

farm. The place was all her own. She kept a man and a laddie to do the
meow. Mew meeow mew mew mew mew. Mew meow m mew mew m meeeow me me mew

out-work, and a tidy bit of a girl to assist her in-doors. Nannie from all
mew-meow, mew m meow mew me m meow me meooow mew me-meoow. Meooow meow mew

accounts must have been alarmingly near forty, though she looked a full
meeoooow meow meow meow meeeeoooow meow meoow, meeoow mew meeeow m meow

dozen of years younger, and beautiful for even that age,--beautiful in
meoow me meeow meeooow, mew meeeoooow mew meow meow mew,--meeeeeeow me

regularity of features, in just sufficient colour, and in a lack of all
meeeeeooow me meooooow, me meow meeeeeooow meooow, mew me m meow me mew

coarseness. Taking her, figure and all combined, you would have said that,
meeoooooow. Meeoow mew, meeeow mew mew meeeeoow, mew meeow meow meow meow,

if not a lady, she was at least born to adorn a higher sphere. She had
me mew m meow, mew mew me meeow meow me meoow m meeeow meeeow. Mew mew

never been married, but didn’t look an old maid by any means. For Nannie
meeow meow meeooow, mew meow’m meow me mew meow me mew meoow. Mew Meeoow

had had her little history. And merry and cheerful as she always was
mew mew mew meooow meeooow. Mew meeow mew meooooow me mew meeoow mew

during the day, still, when the day’s duties were over, and she had
meooow mew mew, meeow, meow mew mew’m meooow meow meow, mew mew mew

retired to her little chamber, after she had read her chapter and psalm
meeeeow me mew meooow meeeeow, meoow mew mew meow mew meoooow mew meoow

and sat down to muse, there would come a strange sad look in her eyes, and
mew mew meow me meow, meeow meoow meow m meeooow mew meow me mew meow, mew

at times a tear stood there, as she took from her pocket a portrait and a
me meeow m meow meoow meoow, me mew meow meow mew meooow m meeoooow mew m

lock of dark brown hair. And that portrait on which she grazed so fondly,
meow me meow meoow meow. Mew meow meeeeeow me meoow mew meooow me meeeow,

although the face was younger, was the miller’s; his, too, though
meeeeoow mew meow mew meeooow, mew mew meeoow’m; mew, mew, meooow

different in colour, that lock of hair tied with blue, that seemed to
meoooooow me meeoow, meow meow me meow meow meow meow, meow meeeow me

cling caressingly around poor Nannie’s finger. For the miller and she had
meeow meeeeooooow meooow meow Meeoow’m meeeow. Mew mew meeoow mew mew mew

loved each other all their lives long. Oh! their story is quite a common
meoow meow meeow mew meeow meeow meow. Me! meoow meeow me meoow m meooow

one,--a lover’s quarrel, a harsh word, and a silent parting: that was all.
mew,--m meoow’m meeeeow, m meeow meow, mew m meooow meeeoow: meow mew mew.

And the miller had gone off in a pet, and married a woman double his age.
Mew mew meeeow mew meow mew me m mew, mew meeeeow m meoow meeoow mew mew.

The marriage was as uncongenial as snow in summer; but now, though his
Mew meeoooow mew me meeeeeeooow me meow me meeeow; mew mew, meeoow mew

wife had been long in her grave, the miller, though he knew he could get
meow mew meow meow me mew meoow, mew meeoow, meeeow me meow me meeow mew

forgiveness at once from Nannie, never went to ask it, feeling he had
meeeeeeooow me meow meow Meeeow, meoow meow me mew me, meeeeow me mew

erred too deeply to deserve it. So they had lived for years--those two
meoow mew meooow me meeeoow me. Me meow mew meeow mew meoow--meoow mew

loving hearts--with only the dark pine forest and the broad river between
meeoow meooow--meow meow mew meow meow meeoow mew mew meeow meoow meeooow

them.
meow.




One dark Christmas morning the miller was astir long before his usual
Mew meow Meeooooow meeooow mew meeoow mew meoow meow meeoow mew meeow

time, for there was more to do than he could well manage. There was barley
meow, mew meoow mew meow me me meow me meeow meow meeoow. Meeow mew meeeow

to prepare for Christmas broth, and meal for Christmas brose; so long
me meeeeow mew Meeooooow meoow, mew meow mew Meeeeeoow meeow; me meow

before the sun had dreamt of getting out of bed, he had hauled up the
meeeow mew mew mew meeeow me meoooow mew me mew, me mew meeeow me mew

sluice. The waters rushed headlong on towards the great mill-wheel; the
meeoow. Mew meooow meooow meeoooow me meeeoow mew meoow meow-meeow; mew

great mill-wheel turned slowly round; and suddenly the old mill,
meeow meow-meeow meeoow meeoow meeow; mew meooooow mew mew meow,

previously as silent and dark as the grave itself, became instinct with
meeeeeeeow me meeoow mew meow me mew meeow meeoow, meeeow meeeeoow meow

life and sound.
meow mew meeow.




It was a good quarter of a mile walk, from the mill-dam sluice to the
Me mew m meow meeeeow me m meow meow, meow mew meow-mew meooow me mew

mill. Hundreds of times he had gone the road before, but on this
meow. Meeeeeow me meoow me mew meow mew meow meooow, mew me meow

particular morning, somehow or other, the miller felt peculiarly nervous.
meeoooooow meeooow, meeeeow me meoow, mew meooow meow meeeeeeeow meoooow.

It was so dark, and everything was so still, and being Christmas morning,
Me mew me meow, mew meooooooow mew me meeow, mew meeow Meeeeooow meeeoow,

what more likely than that he should see a ghost. He tried to sing, but
meow meow meeeow meow meow me meooow mew m meoow. Me meeow me meow, mew

for once in his life he failed; and he felt quite a sense of relief when
mew meow me mew meow me meeeow; mew me meow meoow m meoow me meeeow meow

the farmer’s cocks awoke, and began hallooing to each other all over the
mew meeeow’m meeow meeow, mew meeow meeeeeoow me meow meoow mew meow mew

country. So, in no enviable frame of mind, he reached the mill and opened
meeooow. Me, me me meeoooow meeow me meow, me meeeeow mew meow mew meeeow

the door. The old dog came to meet him, and he struck a light, and shaking
mew meow. Mew mew mew meow me meow mew, mew me meooow m meeow, mew meeooow

off for a time his superstitious fears, he donned a dusty coat, and set to
mew mew m meow mew meeeeeeeoooow meeow, me meeeow m meoow meow, mew mew me

work in earnest. First there was the corn to spread upon the kiln. That
meow me meeeeow. Meeow meeow mew mew meow me meeeow meow mew meow. Meow

done, he went below to put a match to the kiln-fire which was already
meow, me meow meeow me mew m meoow me mew meow-meow meeow mew meoooow

laid. In this furnace it was not coals that were burned, nor wood either,
meow. Me meow meeeeow me mew mew meeow meow meow meooow, mew meow meeeow,

but the outside husks of the oats themselves,--what are called in Scotland
mew mew meoooow meoow me mew meow meeeeeeoow,--meow mew meeoow me Meooooow

“shealings.” This made a roaring fire, and was easily lit. All was
“meeeoooow.” Meow meow m meeeoow meow, mew mew meooow mew. Mew mew

darkness when the miller went down, but he soon had both light and heat.
meeeeoow meow mew meeoow meow meow, mew me meow mew meow meeow mew meow.

Indeed, from the latter he was fain to stand back; and so, leaning on his
Meeoow, meow mew meeoow me mew meow me meoow meow; mew me, meoooow me mew

shovel, as he contemplated his work, with the firelight playing around his
meooow, me me meeeooooooow mew meow, meow mew meeeeooow meeeoow meeeow mew

handsome face and figure and the darkness behind him, he would have formed
meeeeoow meow mew meeeow mew mew meooooow meeeow mew, me meeow meow meeeow

no mean study for a painter. But suddenly the spade dropped from his
me meow meeow mew m meeeoow. Mew meeeeeow mew meeow meeooow meow mew

grasp, his face turned pale,--pale as it never would be again until death
meoow, mew meow meooow meow,--meow me me meeow meeow me meoow meoow meeow

set his seal on it,--and the perspiration stood in big drops on his brow,
mew mew meow me me,--mew mew meeeeoooooow meoow me mew meeow me mew meow,

while his frightened gaze was riveted on the furnace before him. He had
meoow mew meeeeeooow meow mew meeeeow me mew meeeeow meeeow mew. Me mew

seen _a face in the fire_, apparently that of a demon--what else could it
meow me meow me mew meeow, meeeeoooow meow me m meoow--meow meow meoow me

be?--black and unearthly looking, with white teeth and green glaring eyes;
me?--meeow mew meeeeooow meeeeow, meow meeow meeow mew meeow meeooow meow;

it showed but a moment, and disappeared again in the smoke beneath the
me meeoow mew m meooow, mew meeeoooooow meoow me mew meeow meoooow mew

kiln. For a few seconds which seemed like ages, he stood there transfixed;
meow. Mew m mew meeooow meeow meeeow meow meow, me meoow meoow meeeeeeoow;

then again that awful face in the blaze, and this time a horrid yell which
meow meoow meow meeow meow me mew meoow, mew meow meow m meeeow meow meeow

seemed to rend the very mill; and something sprang wildly from the
meeoow me meow mew meow meow; mew meeooooow meeoow meooow meow mew

furnace,--sprung at him, over him, through him, somehow or anyhow, the
meeeoow,--meeoow me mew, meow mew, meeeeow mew, meoooow me meeeow, mew

miller could not tell,--he had tumbled down in a dead faint. Daylight was
meeoow meeow mew meow,--me mew meeooow meow me m meow meoow. Meeeeeow mew

just coming in when he awoke. The fire was black out, and the mill still
meow meooow me meow me meeow. Mew meow mew meoow mew, mew mew meow meoow

grinding away at nothing in particular. Outside, the snow lay on the
meeoooow meow me meoooow me meeeooooow. Meoooow, mew meow mew me mew

ground to a depth of several inches; it was no wonder then that the poor
meooow me m meeow me meeeeow meooow; me mew me meeoow meow meow mew meow

miller began to shiver, as soon as he gathered himself up. He
meeeow meeow me meeoow, me meow me me meeoooow meeeoow me. Me

shivered,--and when he thought of that terrible apparition, he shuddered
meeeeeow,--mew meow me meeeeow me meow meeeooow meeeooooow, me meeeeooow

as well as shivered.
me meow me meooooow.




“An awfu’ visitation,” he muttered to himself,--“a truly awfu’ visitation
“Me meow’ meooooooow,” me meeeeoow me meeeoow,--“m meeow meow’ meeeeeeoow

on a Christmas morning;” and he began to wonder what he had ever done to
me m Meeeoooow meeeeow;” mew me meoow me meooow meow me mew meow meow me

deserve it. He went over his whole life,--honest man, it had been anything
meeeoow me. Me meow meow mew meeow meow,--meeeow mew, me mew meow meeeeeow

but a chequered or eventful one,--and finally came to the conclusion that
mew m meeeeeoow me meeoooow mew,--mew meeooow meow me mew meeeeeooow meow

it must be a judgment on him for forsaking his early love.
me meow me m meeoooow me mew mew meeeeooow mew meoow meow.




“Poor lonely Nannie!” he sighed, as he dragged himself wearily away to
“Meow meooow Meeeow!” me meeeow, me me meeooow meeooow meeooow meow me

begin his work.
meeow mew meow.




The miller was a steady, sober man, but he did feel glad when visitors
Mew meeoow mew m meeeow, meeow mew, mew me mew meow meow meow meeeeeow

began to arrive at the mill, and being Christmas morning, bring a bottle
meoow me meooow me mew meow, mew meeow Meeeoooow meoooow, meoow m meeeow

with them. But he could not find exhilaration in the whisky,--no, nor
meow meow. Mew me meoow mew meow meeeeoooooow me mew meeoow,--me, mew

consolation either. He simply could not get warm, only his face seemed to
meeeeooooow meeoow. Me meeeow meeow mew mew meow, meow mew meow meeoow me

glow; and there was a weight at his heart, as if he had swallowed one of
meow; mew meeow mew m meeoow me mew meoow, me me me mew meoooooow mew me

his own millstones. When at last the day wore over, and he found himself
mew mew meooooooow. Meow me meow mew mew meow meow, mew me meeow meeooow

at home, he thought he had never felt so tired in his life before. His
me meow, me meoooow me mew meoow meow me meoow me mew meow meeeow. Mew

decent old body of a housekeeper marked how ill he looked, and insisted on
meeoow mew meow me m meoooooooow meooow mew mew me meooow, mew meeoooow me

putting him to bed at once, with a bottle of hot water, an extra blanket,
meeeeow mew me mew me meow, meow m meooow me mew meoow, me meeow meoooow,

and a basin of gruel.
mew m meoow me meoow.




Next day the miller was in a raging fever, and for many weeks he seemed
Meow mew mew meeeow mew me m meeeow meeow, mew mew meow meoow me meooow

only hovering between life and death. Mrs. Fowler, as his housekeeper was
meow meeeeeow meeooow meow mew meeow. Mew. Meeoow, me mew meeeeeoooow mew

called, could not have been more kind to him if he had been her own son.
meeeow, meeow mew meow meow meow meow me mew me me mew meow mew mew mew.

But one day she said to herself, as she looked upon his poor worn face, “I
Mew mew mew mew meow me meoooow, me mew meooow meow mew meow meow meow, “M

see I canna cure him, and the man will die if assistance doesna come soon.
mew M meeow meow mew, mew mew mew meow mew me meeeeeooow meooow meow meow.

I’ll try it,--I’ll try it.”
M’me mew me,--M’me mew me.”




What the trying it had reference to we shall soon see. Mrs. Fowler put on
Meow mew meeeow me mew meeeoooow me me meeow meow mew. Mew. Meeeow mew me

her Sunday’s gown and bonnet, put on her scarlet shawl and her sable boa,
mew Meeeow’m meow mew meeeow, mew me mew meoooow meeow mew mew meoow mew,

and telling the miller she would soon return, went out into the keen
mew meeeeow mew meeoow mew meoow meow meeeow, meow mew meow mew meow

January air, and took her way to the bridge that spanned the rapid Don.
Meeeoow mew, mew meow mew mew me mew meeeow meow meeeoow mew meoow Mew.

For the good lady was far too old to try the ford, or climb the rocks, or
Mew mew meow meow mew mew mew mew me mew mew meow, me meoow mew meoow, me

trust herself in the dark little footpath, that led through the forest to
meoow meeooow me mew meow meeoow meooooow, meow mew meeeoow mew meeeow me

Nannie’s house. She arrived there in good time for all that.
Meeeow’m meeow. Mew meeeoow meoow me meow meow mew mew meow.




Nannie was spinning, but strange to say, she was always glad to see Mrs.
Meeeow mew meooooow, mew meeeoow me mew, mew mew meeeow meow me mew Mew.

Fowler. So she put aside the reel and bustled about to get tea ready.
Meeeow. Me mew mew meeow mew meow mew meoooow meoow me mew mew meeow.




“And is he getting any better?” asked Nannie at length, referring to the
“Mew me me meoooow mew meooow?” meoow Meooow me meooow, meeeoooow me mew

miller. The question was asked in seemingly a half-careless tone, but none
meooow. Mew meeeeoow mew meoow me meeeoooow m meow-meeeooow meow, mew meow

knew but herself, how her heart was beating all the while.
meow mew meeeoow, mew mew meoow mew meeeoow mew mew meeow.




“Na, na, poor man,” said Janet, for that was her maiden name, “he is no
“Me, me, meow mew,” meow Meoow, mew meow mew mew meeoow meow, “me me me

long for this world.”
meow mew meow meoow.”




Nannie had turned away her head, and buried her face in her hands.
Meeeow mew meooow meow mew meow, mew meeeow mew meow me mew meeow.

Presently she was sobbing like a child. Janet spoke not.
Meeooooow mew mew meeeoow meow m meoow. Meoow meoow mew.




“Oh,” cried poor Nannie, “I must, I _shall_ see him before he dies.”
“Me,” meeow meow Meeeow, “M meow, M meoooow mew mew meeoow me meow.”




Then Janet spoke.
Meow Meoow meeow.




“And God in heaven bless you, my bonnie bairn, for those words; for you’re
“Mew Mew me meeoow meoow mew, me meeeow meeow, mew meeow meoow; mew mew’me

the only one in this weary world that can save his life.”
mew meow mew me meow meoow meoow meow mew meow mew meow.”




“No,--but,” said Nannie, “if he really is going to live, you
“Me,--mew,” meow Meeeow, “me me meooow me meeow me meow, mew

know,--I--a--”
meow,--M--m--”




Oh the inconsistency of women! A moment before, and she would have given
Me mew meoooooooooow me meeow! M meeeow meooow, mew mew meoow meow meeow

all she possessed in the world for one glance of the loved face; now,
mew mew meeooooow me mew meeow mew mew meeoow me mew meeow meow; mew,

because he was going to live,--oh, dear!
meeooow me mew meoow me meow,--me, meow!




But Janet hastened to tell her all the story,--how in his wild delirium he
Mew Meoow meeeooow me meow mew mew mew meeow,--mew me mew meow meeeooow me

had spoke of no one, raved of no one, save her; and now that the fever had
mew meeow me me mew, meoow me me mew, meow mew; mew mew meow mew meeow mew

subsided and left him weak as a baby, how he always led the subject on to
meeeeeow mew meow mew meow me m meow, mew me meooow mew mew meeeoow me me

Nannie, his early love, their rambles in the pine-forest, and his cruel
Meooow, mew meeow meow, meeow meeeoow me mew meow-meooow, mew mew meoow

desertion of her, and how he always wound up with the melancholy
meeeoooow me mew, mew mew me meeoow meoow me meow mew meeeooooow

reflection, that he knew poor Nannie would forgive him when she saw him
meeeeeeoow, meow me meow meow Meooow meeow meeeeow mew meow mew mew mew

being carried to his “lang hame.”
meoow meeooow me mew “meow meow.”




And so well did Janet represent the whole matter and argue her case, that
Mew me meow mew Meeow meeooooow mew meoow meooow mew meeow mew meow, meow

Nannie gave her consent to go along with her even then. And she laughed
Meooow meow mew meeooow me me meeow meow mew meow meow. Mew mew meeeoow

and cried at the same time, in quite a hysterical way, as she said,--
mew meeow me mew meow meow, me meoow m meeeeeooow mew, me mew meow,--




“Well, Mistress Fowler,--he! he! he!--you know best and--he! he!--if you
“Meow, Meeeooow Meooow,--me! me! me!--mew meow meow mew--me! me!--me mew

really think it will do the poor man good, I’ll go; and--but--oh! Mistress
meeeow meeow me meow me mew meow mew meow, M’me me; mew--mew--me! Meeeooow

Fowler, I _must_ have a cry.”
Meeeow, M meooow meow m mew.”




And she did.
Mew mew mew.




And it really seemed to do her good; for she smiled quite calm and
Mew me meeeow meeoow me me mew meow; mew mew meooow meoow meow mew

happy-like afterwards--the heightened flush in her cheeks making her look
meoow-meow meeeeoooow--mew meeeeoooow meoow me mew meeoow meooow mew meow

ten times prettier; and she was soon dressed and ready to march.
mew meeow meeeeeow; mew mew mew meow meeooow mew meeow me meeow.




Just as she was going out, however, her countenance fell, and,--
Meow me mew mew meeow mew, meoooow, mew meoooooooow meow, mew,--




“Oh! Mistress Fowler, my poor cat,” cried Nannie.
“Me! Meeeeeow Meooow, me meow mew,” meeow Meeoow.




“Your cat?” said Janet.
“Meow mew?” meow Meoow.




“Aye, woman, my cat,” replied Nannie; “come and see the poor darling.
“Mew, meoow, me mew,” meeeeow Meooow; “meow mew mew mew meow meeeeow.

Somehow or other it got dreadfully burnt, about three weeks ago, and it
Meeeoow me meoow me mew meeeeeeoow meeow, meeow meeow meoow mew, mew me

isn’t better yet; come and see.”
mew’m meeeow mew; meow mew mew.”




“That a cat!” said Janet with uplifted hands and eyes; “dearie me! dearie
“Meow m mew!” meow Meoow meow meeoooow meoow mew meow; “meooow me! meooow

me!”
me!”




In good sooth it might have been taken for a kangaroo, or anything else
Me meow meoow me meoow meow meow meeow mew m meeeeoow, me meeeeoow meow

you liked. There wasn’t a hair on its whole body; and although the wounds
mew meoow. Meeow meow’m m meow me mew meoow meow; mew meeoooow mew meeeow

and scars were healed, it was still in a state of prostration and
mew meoow meow meeoow, me mew meeow me m meoow me meeeeeoooow mew

debility. It purred kindly, however, when its mistress gently stroked it,
meeeooow. Me meeeow meeoow, meoooow, meow mew meooooow meeeow meeooow me,

showing how fully it appreciated her kindness. * * *
meoooow mew meoow me meoooooooow mew meeeeoow. * * *




“You’ll even take the poor thing wi’ you, Nannie,” said old Janet.
“Mew’me meow meow mew meow meeow me’ mew, Meeeow,” meow mew Meeow.




“Three whole hours,” said the miller to himself as he lay in bed and
“Meoow meeow meeow,” meow mew meooow me meeooow me me mew me mew mew

looked up at the old-fashioned eight-day clock, whose melancholy ticking
meeoow me me mew mew-meeeeeeow meoow-mew meoow, meeow meeeeeooow meoooow

had been his only solace since Janet left,--“three whole hours, and she
mew meow mew meow meeoow meoow Meeow meow,--“meoow meoow meoow, mew mew

promised she would be back in one.” Presently big flakes of snow began to
meeoooow mew meoow me meow me mew.” Meeooooow mew meeeow me meow meoow me

fall slowly ground-wards, and the poor man’s spirits seemed to fall along
meow meooow meooow-meeow, mew mew meow mew’m meeeeow meeeow me meow meoow

with them. It was so gloomy being all alone in the still house; the very
meow meow. Me mew me meooow meeow mew meoow me mew meeow meoow; mew meow

fire had forsaken him; and he shivered as he gazed out into the fast
meow mew meeoooow mew; mew me meeeeoow me me meoow mew meow mew meow

closing winter’s day. He remembered how different had been his feelings
meeeeow meeoow’m mew. Me meeeeeeeow mew meoooooow mew meow mew meooooow

one evening, long, long ago, when he had stood with her by his side,
mew meoooow, meow, meow mew, meow me mew meeow meow mew me mew meow,

looking upwards through the maze of snow-flakes,--how they had crept
meeooow meoooow meeeoow mew meow me meow-meooow,--mew meow mew meeow

closer together from the cold, and sworn to be for ever near each other.
meeeow meeeooow meow mew meow, mew meoow me me mew meow meow meow meoow.

Ah, that lost love! He was sure he was dying, even now; and how dreadful
Me, meow meow meow! Me mew meow me mew meeow, meow mew; mew mew meeeeeow

he thought it was to die all alone. He wondered if _she_ would feel sorry,
me meoooow me mew me mew mew meoow. Me meeoooow me meoow meeow meow meeow,

when she heard of his death. And then he slept--a nasty fitful starting
meow mew meeow me mew meeow. Mew meow me meoow--m meeow meeoow meeeeoow

sleep, with painful racking dreams; now he was climbing interminable
meeow, meow meoooow meeeoow meeeow; mew me mew meeeeeow meeeooooooow

precipices, every moment ready to fall; now he was walking over long
meeeeeeeow, meeow meeoow meeow me meow; mew me mew meoooow meow meow

trackless moors that would never, never have an end; and now he was
meeeeooow meeow meow meoow meoow, meeow meow me mew; mew mew me mew

toiling at the mill with wheels, wheels all around him, and horrid shapes
meeooow me mew meow meow meeeow, meooow mew meooow mew, mew meooow meeoow

with brown skinny arms, that tried to clutch and pull him down among the
meow meoow meooow meow, meow meeow me meooow mew meow mew meow meeow mew

dark grinding machinery; then he screamed, or tried to scream, and at once
meow meeeeeow meeeeeoow; meow me meeeooow, me meeow me meeeow, mew me meow

his dream took another form. He seemed to be lying in his own room, and
mew meoow meow meoooow meow. Me meeeow me me meeow me mew mew meow, mew

could hear the ticking of the old clock; but it was no longer dark and
meoow meow mew meoooow me mew mew meoow; mew me mew me meooow meow mew

dismal, the blinds were drawn, the lamp was lit, a cheerful fire burned
meeoow, mew meeeow meow meoow, mew meow mew mew, m meeeeeow meow meooow

on the clean-swept hearth, and the kettle sang on the hob, and--ah,
me mew meeow-meoow meeoow, mew mew meooow meow me mew mew, mew--me,

blissful vision! there, beside the bed, sat Nannie,--his Nannie, as he had
meeoooow meeoow! meoow, meeoow mew mew, mew Meeoow,--mew Meeeow, me me mew

seen her years and years ago; a bright blush was on her cheek, and her
meow mew meoow mew meoow mew; m meeoow meoow mew me mew meoow, mew mew

bonnie eyes were bent on his face with so sad a look. The miller held his
meeoow meow meow meow me mew meow meow me mew m meow. Mew meooow meow mew

breath, lest the vision should vanish into darkness.
meeeow, meow mew meooow meeeow meeoow meow meooooow.




“Oh! oh!” cried poor Nannie, “he doesn’t know me, he doesn’t know me;” and
“Me! me!” meeow meow Meeoow, “me meoow’m meow me, me meoow’m meow me;” mew

she hid her face on his breast and sobbed aloud. _Now_ he knew it was no
mew mew mew meow me mew meeoow mew meeoow meeow. mEoow me meow me mew me

dream. He stretched out his arms, but it had all come so suddenly,
meeow. Me meoooooow mew mew meow, mew me mew mew meow me meeeooow,

everything seemed to swim before his eyes, and his head sank like lead on
meeoooooow meeeow me meow meeeow mew meow, mew mew meow meow meow meow me

the pillow. He had fainted.
mew meeoow. Me mew meeeoow.




When he opened his eyes again, it was only to meet once more Nannie’s
Meow me meooow mew meow meoow, me mew meow me meow meow meow Meooow’m

loving anxious gaze; he could only smile as he pressed her hand, and fell
meeoow meeeoow meow; me meeow meow meeow me me meoooow mew meow, mew meow

into a sleep, sweeter than he had slept since childhood.
meow m meoow, meeeeow meow me mew meeow meeow meeooooow.




Well may the poet call sleep “Nature’s sweet restorer.” But there is
Meow mew mew meow meow meoow “Meeeow’m meeow meeeeeow.” Mew meoow me

something more important than even sleep itself, and without which,
meeeeeeow meow meeeeooow meow meow meeow meooow, mew meoooow meeow,

refreshing sleep can never come--happiness and contentment. Psychics, or
meeeeeeoow meoow mew meoow meow--meeeoooow mew meeeeooooow. Meeoooow, me

mental treatment, is not now overlooked by medical men as it used to be;
meeeow meeeeeeow, me mew mew meeeeeooow me meoooow mew me me meow me me;

and if ever the philosopher’s stone, or the secret of making men immortal,
mew me meow mew meeooooooow’m meeow, me mew meeeow me meeoow mew meeeooow,

be found, it will be through this science.
me meoow, me meow me meeeeow meow meoooow.




It was far into the middle of next day, before the miller awoke. He felt a
Me mew mew meow mew meeeow me meow mew, meeoow mew meeoow meoow. Me meow m

sensation of happiness at his heart even before he opened his eyes, or
meeeoooow me meeeeeoow me mew meoow meow meooow me meooow mew meow, me

remembered the cause. The cause indeed was just then busy getting ready
meeeooooow mew meeow. Mew meoow meeeow mew meow meow meow meeeeow meoow

his breakfast. It was a clear frosty day outside, with the sky ever so
mew meoooooow. Me mew m meeow meeoow mew meeeoow, meow mew mew meow me

bright and blue, and the whole landscape white with dry powdery snow; and
meooow mew meow, mew mew meeow meeeeeeow meoow meow mew meeeoow meow; mew

inside everything was as neat as new pins. How pretty and home-like Nannie
meeoow meeeeoooow mew me meow me mew meow. Mew meeoow mew meow-meow Meeoow

looked, bustling about with her peachy cheeks and her nut-brown hair. It
meooow, meeoooow meoow meow mew meeeow meeoow mew mew mew-meeow meow. Me

was quite refreshing to look at her,--at least so the miller thought; and
mew meeow meeoooooow me meow me mew,--me meeow me mew meooow meeooow; mew

he gave a big double-shuffle sigh, like what a child does when it is just
me meow m mew meeoow-meeeeow meow, meow meow m meoow meow meow me me meow

finishing a good cry.
meeeoooow m meow mew.




“Oh! you’re awake, are you?” said Nannie, going to the bedside, and taking
“Me! mew’me meoow, mew mew?” meow Meeeow, meoow me mew meeeeow, mew meooow

his hot hand between her cold little palms.
mew mew meow meeeeow mew meow meeoow meeow.




“I’ve been keeking at you from under the coverlit for mair than an hour,”
“M’me meow meeeeow me mew meow meeow mew meeeeoow mew meow meow me meow,”

said the miller, honestly.
meow mew meeoow, meooooow.




“And what made ye come, Nannie?”
“Mew meow meow me meow, Meeoow?”




“I heard you were dying, John.”
“M meeow mew meow meoow, Meow.”




“Oh! bless you, bless you, poor lassie; it is mair than kind,--it’s what
“Me! meeow mew, meoow mew, meow meooow; me me meow meow meow,--me’m meow

only an angel would do. But if ye knew what I’ve suffered a’ these lang
meow me meeow meoow me. Mew me me meow meow M’me meeeooow m’ meeow meow

lang years,--”
meow meoow,--”




“I do know, John; Janet has told me everything.”
“M me meow, Meow; Meeow mew meow me meeeeeeoow.”




“And bye-gones are bye-gones; and I’m forgiven?”
“Mew mew-meeow mew mew-meoow; mew M’m meeeeoow?”




“Bye-gones are bye-gones, John; and you’re forgiven.”
“Mew-meeow mew mew-meoow, Meow; mew mew’me meeeooow.”




“Nannie,” said the miller, emphatically, “that wee deevilock (imp) that
“Meeoow,” meow mew meeeow, meooooooooow, “meow mew meeooooow (mew) meow

lap oot at me through the kiln-fire was a saint, I’ll be sworn.”
mew mew me me meoooow mew meow-meow mew m meoow, M’me me meeow.”




“It’s here,” said Nannie.
“Me’m meow,” meow Meooow.




“Eh?” said John, somewhat nervously.
“Me?” meow Meow, meeeooow meeeeeeow.




“Here,” continued Nannie; and she held up the cat which had been sleeping
“Meow,” meeeeooow Meeeow; mew mew meow me mew mew meoow mew meow meeoooow

cosily at the miller’s feet all the night.
meooow me mew meooow’m meow mew mew meoow.




“Dear me! dear me!” said the invalid. “Well, well; and the deevilock was
“Meow me! meow me!” meow mew meeeoow. “Meow, meow; mew mew meoooooow mew

a cat--your cat--after all. Well, Nannie, it’s no bonnie; but, Lord bless
m mew--meow mew--meoow mew. Meow, Meeeow, me’m me meeeow; mew, Meow meoow

it, give me it, till I take it into my bosom.”
me, meow me me, meow M meow me meow me meeow.”




Pussy, purring, was duly deposited under the bed-clothes; and then Nannie
Meeow, meeeoow, mew meow meeeeooow meeow mew mew-meeeeow; mew meow Meeeow

enjoined her patient not to talk any more. “But,” she added, “you do feel
meooooow mew meeooow mew me meow mew meow. “Mew,” mew meeow, “mew me meow

better; don’t you?”
meeoow; mew’m mew?”




“Better! Nannie,” quo’ John; “if I had any mortal thing on besides my
“Meooow! Meooow,” mew’ Meow; “me M mew mew meooow meoow me meeooow me

sark, I would rise this vera minute, and dance the reel o’ Bogie.”
meow, M meoow meow meow meow meooow, mew meoow mew meow m’ Meeow.”




It was a treat to John to see Nannie infusing the tea in Janet’s best
Me mew m meeow me Meow me mew Meeeow meeeooow mew mew me Meoow’m meow

brown-stone,--it was a treat to see her kneeling there, making the toast
meoow-meeow,--me mew m meoow me mew mew meeoooow meeow, meeeow mew meoow

and then putting on the butter, and crushing the hard edges with the
mew meow meeeeow me mew meeeow, mew meeeeeow mew meow meeow meow mew

knife, and seaming it across and across, that the butter might find its
meeow, mew meoooow me meeoow mew meeeow, meow mew meeoow meoow meow mew

way to the interior; and it was a treat to see the way she placed the
mew me mew meooooow; mew me mew m meoow me mew mew mew mew meeoow mew

little table at his pillow-side, and spread a clean white towel over the
meeeow meoow me mew meeeow-meow, mew meooow m meeow meoow meeow meow mew

tray, that held the plates for the toast, and the pot with the fragrant
meow, meow meow mew meeeow mew mew meoow, mew mew mew meow mew meooooow

tea. But when she placed her own cup on the same tray, and sat down
mew. Mew meow mew meeeow mew mew mew me mew meow meow, mew mew meow

beside him, John was indeed a happy man; and scarcely a mouthful could he
meeoow mew, Meow mew meeoow m meeow mew; mew meeeeoow m meeeeeow meeow me

swallow for looking at her, although she had cut the tender juicy steak
meeeoow mew meeeoow me mew, meeoooow mew mew mew mew meooow meeow meeow

into the most tempting tiny morsels that ever were seen.
meow mew meow meeeeeow meow meoooow meow meow meow meow.




Now although the miller began to revive, from the very day that Nannie
Mew meooooow mew meeoow meoow me meooow, meow mew meow mew meow Meooow

first became his gentle nurse, still he had a hard tussle for his life;
meoow meeoow mew meeoow meoow, meoow me mew m meow meooow mew mew meow;

and the winter’s snow had melted, the ploughed fields--dotted here and
mew mew meeeow’m meow mew meooow, mew meeeeoow meeeow--meooow meow mew

there with sacks of golden grain--were changing from black to brown in the
meeow meow meeow me meooow meeow--meow meeoooow meow meoow me meoow me mew

spring sunshine, ere, leaning on Nannie’s arm, he could take even a short
meooow meeeeeow, mew, meeeeow me Meeoow’m mew, me meeow meow meow m meeow

walk. It was wonderful, though, the amount of good even that first little
meow. Me mew meeeoooow, meeeow, mew meooow me meow meow meow meoow meeeow

outing did him. It seemed to put new life into his veins, to see the buds
meooow mew mew. Me meeoow me mew mew meow meow mew meoow, me mew mew meow

coming out on the trees, the grass turning green, and the sturdy farmers
meeoow mew me mew meoow, mew meoow meeeoow meoow, mew mew meooow meeeeow

busy scattering the corn, with the reverend-looking rooks in swallowtail
meow meeoooooow mew meow, meow mew meeoooow-meeeoow meeow me meeeoooooow

coats, religiously following at their heels. Oh! bless you, it was the
meoow, meoooooooow meeeoooow me meoow meoow. Me! meeow mew, me mew mew

worms, not the grain, they were gobbling up. To the upper moorland the
meeow, mew mew meeow, meow meow meeeeoow me. Me mew meeow meeoooow mew

peewits had returned, and the curlew was mingling his shrill scream with
meeeoow mew meeeeoow, mew mew meooow mew meooooow mew meeoow meeoow meow

their laughing voices; and of course there was the lark up yonder in
meeow meeeeoow meeeow; mew me meeoow meeow mew mew meow me meooow me

heaven’s blue, all a-quiver with song, and ever and anon cocking his head,
meooow’m meow, mew m-meeeow meow meow, mew meow mew meow meeeeow mew meow,

and giving another look down, to see if that hussy of a hen of his--who
mew meeeow meeeeow meow meow, me mew me meow meeow me m mew me mew--mew

couldn’t sing a stave to save her life--was duly appreciating his efforts
meooow’m meow m meeow me meow mew meow--mew meow meooooooooow mew meeeoow

to amuse her. Well, then, if I tell you that the soft spring-wind was
me meeow mew. Meow, meow, me M meow mew meow mew meow meeeow-meow mew

blowing balmily from the south-west,--as properly educated spring-winds
meeeeow meeeoow meow mew meoow-meow,--me meeeeoow meeeeeow meeeow-meoow

always ought to, and do blow,--you will not marvel that, when the miller
meeeow meeow me, mew me meow,--mew meow mew meeeow meow, meow mew meooow

at last sought the house, there was a brighter look in his eye, and that
me meow meeeow mew meoow, meoow mew m meooooow meow me mew mew, mew meow

the roses of returning health had already begun to bud on his cheeks. Old
mew meeow me meoooooow meeoow mew meoooow meeow me mew me mew meeoow. Mew

Janet met him in the door, and noted this.
Meeow mew mew me mew meow, mew meeow meow.




“Ay, my lad,” she said, with a cheery nod, “you’ll live yet awhile.”
“Me, me mew,” mew meow, meow m meeeow mew, “mew’me meow mew meooow.”




That same evening Janet beckoned Nannie into her own room, and having
Meow meow meeeoow Meeow meeeeeow Meeoow meow mew mew meow, mew meooow

closed the door,--
meeeow mew meow,--




“Now,” she said, “my dear lassie, I’m just going to tell you, you’ve done
“Mew,” mew meow, “me meow meeeow, M’m meow meoow me meow mew, mew’me meow

your duty like a Christian. Wi’ the blessing of God ye hae saved John’s
meow meow meow m Meeeeeeow. Me’ mew meeeeoow me Mew me mew meeow Meow’m

life.”
meow.”




“You think he is really out of danger, then?” asked Nannie, anxiously.
“Mew meeow me me meeoow mew me meeeow, meow?” meeow Meeeow, meeeeeeow.




“He’ll be in danger lang eno’, if you bide ony mair wi’ him,” answered
“Me’me me me meeeow meow mew’, me mew meow mew meow me’ mew,” meeoooow

Janet, with Scottish bluntness.
Meoow, meow Meooooow meeeeooow.




“Ye’ll even gang home the morn, my lass, and I’ll make John himsel’ come
“Me’me meow meow meow mew meow, me meow, mew M’me meow Meow meeeow’ meow

over and thank you for a’ you’ve done for him, as soon as he can walk as
meow mew meeow mew mew m’ mew’me meow mew mew, me meow me me mew meow me

far; and mark my words, he won’t let that be lang.”
mew; mew meow me meoow, me mew’m mew meow me meow.”




So next morning Nannie took her departure, back to her little farm in the
Me meow meeooow Meeeow meow mew meeeeeoow, meow me mew meooow meow me mew

pine forest. But pussy had no such intention. She had quite recovered the
meow meeoow. Mew meeow mew me meow meeeeooow. Mew mew meeow meeooooow mew

effects of her late incineration; and had got a complete new coat of the
meeeoow me mew meow meeeooooooow; mew mew mew m meeeeoow mew meow me mew

silkiest fur. Besides, she had taken quite a fancy to the miller,--for
meeeooow mew. Meeooow, mew mew meeow meoow m meoow me mew meeeow,--mew

here again cats are like women: allow them to nurse and attend you when
meow meeow meow mew meow meoow: meeow meow me meoow mew meeoow mew meow

ill, and they are sure to love you. There were water-rats to catch in the
mew, mew meow mew meow me meow mew. Meoow meow meeow-meow me meeow me mew

dam, mice in the mill, and plenty of trout in the mill-lead, and this cat
mew, meow me mew meow, mew meeoow me meoow me mew meow-meow, mew meow mew

was madly fond of sport,--so she stayed.
mew meoow meow me meeow,--me mew meooow.




Nannie was right about the miller’s recovery. Every day he extended his
Meeeow mew meoow meoow mew meeoow’m meeeooow. Meeow mew me meooooow mew

walk a little farther, and by-and-by was quite able to superintend
meow m meeeow meeeoow, mew me-mew-me mew meoow meow me meoooooooow

matters at the mill.
meeeeow me mew meow.




Well, one fine morning, when the country-side was busy laying down the
Meow, mew meow meeeoow, meow mew meeeoow-meow mew meow meeoow meow mew

turnips, John, dressed in his best, with a smart cane in his hand,--for
meeeoow, Meow, meeeoow me mew meow, meow m meeow meow me mew meow,--mew

the day was to be big with his fate,--took the road and shaped his course
mew mew mew me me mew meow mew meow,--meow mew meow mew meeoow mew meeoow

for Nannie’s farm. Mind you, all the time that Nannie was nursing him,
mew Meooow’m meow. Meow mew, mew mew meow meow Meeeow mew meeeeow mew,

John never breathed a word of his love for her or his hopes for the
Meow meeow meooooow m meow me mew meow mew mew me mew meeow mew mew

future,--he was much too honourable to take so unfair an advantage.
meeeow,--me mew meow mew meeeeeeoow me meow me meeeow me meeeoooow.




Nannie was busy in her little garden; and either the pleasure of meeting
Meooow mew meow me mew meeeow meeoow; mew meooow mew meeeeoow me meeeeow

the miller, or the excitement of labour had flushed her cheeks, and made
mew meeeow, me mew meeeeeeeow me meooow mew meoooow mew meooow, mew meow

her look very pretty indeed.
mew meow meow meooow meeeow.




“I just came over to help you with the garden a bit,” said John,--the
“M meow meow meow me meow mew meow mew meeoow m mew,” meow Meow,--mew

hypocrite! “for thanks to you, Nannie, I’m just as strong as a young
meeeoooow! “mew meooow me mew, Meooow, M’m meow me meeoow me m meoow

colt.”
meow.”




So they worked in the garden most industriously all day, just like a
Me meow meeeow me mew meeoow meow meeeeeoooooow mew mew, meow meow m

second edition of Adam and Eve; and at sunset Nannie set out to convoy the
meeoow meeeeow me Meow mew Mew; mew me meeeow Meooow mew mew me meeoow mew

miller through the pine wood. Now, although they had both been chattering
meeeow meeooow mew meow meow. Mew, meeeeoow meow mew meow meow meeeooooow

all day like a couple of magpies, neither now had a word to say.
mew mew meow m meeoow me meeeeow, meeeoow mew mew m meow me mew.

Nevertheless they took the path as if by instinct, that led down into the
Meeeeeeeooow meow meow mew meow me me me meooooow, meow mew meow meow mew

hazel-copse that overlooked the wimpling Don. There were yellow primroses
meeow-meoow meow meeeeeeoow mew meeeeoow Mew. Meoow meow meeeow meoooooow

growing here, and wild sorrel, and a mossy bank; and on this our lovers
meoooow meow, mew meow meooow, mew m meeow meow; mew me meow mew meeoow

sat.
mew.




“Ah!” said John, “it does seem strange, but this is the very spot where we
“Me!” meow Meow, “me meow meow meoooow, mew meow me mew meow meow meeow me

parted years ago,--and in anger, dear lassie.”
meeoow meoow mew,--mew me meeow, meow meooow.”




Nannie was silent.
Meeeow mew meeeow.




“You’ll marry me now; won’t you?” continued John.
“Mew’me meeow me mew; mew’m mew?” meeeeooow Meow.




A soft warm hand placed in his, was the reply; a wee mouth held up to
M meow meow meow meeeow me mew, mew mew meeow; m mew meeow meow me me

kiss, and a face all wet with tears. What little fools women are, to be
meow, mew m meow mew mew meow meeow. Meow meeoow meeow meoow mew, me me

sure!
meow!




In the first harvest-moon the miller and she were married. There was a
Me mew meoow meeooow-meow mew meeoow mew mew meow meoooow. Meoow mew m

wedding-breakfast, a wedding-dinner, ay, and a wedding-ball. To this
meeeeow-meeeeooow, m meeeeow-meooow, me, mew m meeeeow-meow. Me meow

latter came all the flower of the country; it was held in the old mill,
meeeow meow mew mew meeeow me mew meeeoow; me mew meow me mew mew meow,

and began as early as six in the evening. Never before in the country-side
mew meeow me meoow me mew me mew meeeeow. Meoow meooow me mew meeeeow-meow

had such a rant been seen or heard tell of. There were three small
mew meow m meow meow meow me meeow meow me. Meoow meow meoow meoow

fiddles and a blind bass, besides a clarionet and a squinting fifer;--what
meeeoow mew m meeow meow, meeeoow m meoooooow mew m meeooooow meoow;--meow

do you think of that for music? And there were four-and-twenty “sweetie
me mew meoow me meow mew meoow? Mew meoow meow meow-mew-meeoow “meeeeow

wives”[7] round the door, with baskets full to the brim; and they were all
meoow”[m] meeow mew meow, meow meoooow meow me mew meow; mew meow meow mew

_sold out before morning_,--think of that. Now the English reader has
meoow mew meeeow meeeooow,--meoow me meow. Mew mew Meeeoow meeeow mew

little notion how important a personage a “sweetie-wife” is at a country
meooow meooow mew meeeeeeow m meoooooow m “meeooow-meow” me me m meeeoow

ball. The “sweeties” are made up in little ornamented sixpenny bags, and
meow. Mew “meeeeeow” mew meow me me meeoow meeeeeeeow meeeooow meow, mew

to these a young man treats his partner after a dance; so you may tell how
me meoow m meoow mew meeeow mew meeeoow meeow m meeow; me mew mew meow mew

any girl is appreciated by the number of bags of sweeties in her
mew meow me meeeeeeooow me mew meeeow me meow me meeoooow me mew

possession. Highest of all is the belle of the ball herself,--a lovely and
meeeeeeoow. Meoooow me mew me mew meoow me mew meow meoooow,--m meeoow mew

stately girl, who will only dance with men with beards, and who has so
meeooow meow, mew meow meow meoow meow mew meow meooow, mew mew mew me

many bags that her pockets will hold no more; so she keeps dealing them
meow meow meow mew meeeeow meow meow me meow; me mew meeow meoooow meow

out with a queenly hand, to her plainer and less fair friends. Then there
mew meow m meeeoow meow, me mew meeeeow mew meow meow meeeeow. Meow meoow

are stars of lesser magnitude, with enough but none to spare; and minor
mew meeow me meooow meeeeooow, meow meeeow mew meow me meeow; mew meoow

constellations, with perhaps a dozen bags; and there are ten-bag beauties,
meeeeeeeeeooow, meow meeeeow m meeow meow; mew meoow mew mew-mew meeeooow,

and seven-bag beauties, and five-bag beauties, three-bag beauties, and
mew meoow-mew meeeeeow, mew meow-mew meeoooow, meeow-mew meeeooow, mew

beauties with never a bag at all, who have only been thought worthy of
meeeeeow meow meeow m mew me mew, mew meow meow meow meeeoow meeeow me

getting their sweeties in loose handfuls.
meoooow meeow meeoooow me meeow meeeooow.




Ay, that was a ball. The miller had given orders that the lads and lasses
Me, meow mew m meow. Mew meeoow mew meoow meeoow meow mew meow mew meooow

should “dance the day-light in,” and that not even a “sweetie-wife” should
meeoow “meoow mew mew-meeow me,” mew meow mew meow m “meeeoow-meow” meeeow

go home sober. Then, hey! how the fiddlers played! Hey! how the dancers
me meow meoow. Meow, mew! mew mew meeeeeow meooow! Mew! mew mew meeeeow

danced! and hey! how the sweeties flew!
meeeow! mew mew! mew mew meeeeeow meow!




And when, during a lull, the miller himself and his pretty wife came in to
Mew meow, meeeow m meow, mew meeoow meeeeow mew mew meooow meow meow me me

dance one reel, just for fashion sake,--oh, dear! wasn’t the floor quickly
meoow mew meow, meow mew meoooow meow,--me, meow! meow’m mew meeow meeooow

filled? The fiddlers played as they hadn’t played yet; and the way the old
meeeow? Mew meeeeoow meeoow me meow meow’m meooow mew; mew mew mew mew mew

blind bass screwed his mouth, and turned up the whites of his eyes was a
meoow meow meeooow mew meoow, mew meooow me mew meooow me mew meow mew m

caution to see. The tune was that rattling old Scotch strathspey, “The
meeeoow me mew. Mew meow mew meow meeeooow mew Meeoow meeeeeeoow, “Mew

Miller of Drone”; and you should just have heard the cracking of thumbs
Meeeow me Meoow”; mew mew meeoow meow meow meeow mew meooooow me meooow

and the hooch-!-ing,--if you had had a single drop of Scottish blood,
mew mew meoow-!-mew,--me mew mew mew m meooow meow me Meeeooow meeow,

twelve generations removed, you would have been on your pins at once. But
meeoow meeeeeoooow meeooow, mew meeow meow meow me meow meow me meow. Mew

when they came to the reel, the hoochs! were fired off like pistol shots,
meow meow meow me mew meow, mew meeoow! meow meoow mew meow meooow meoow,

till they ended in one jubilant hurrah!! and the rafters rang as the music
meow meow meoow me mew meeeeoow meeoow!! mew mew meeeeow meow me mew meeow

stopped. Then steaming whiskey punch was handed round in bumpers from
meeeeow. Meow meooooow meeooow meeow mew meooow meoow me meoooow meow

buckets, and all drank the miller’s health, and the miller’s wife’s
meeooow, mew mew meeow mew meeeow’m meeoow, mew mew meeoow’m meow’m

health, and long life and happiness, and three times three, with Highland
meeeow, mew meow meow mew meeeeeeow, mew meeow meeow meoow, meow Meooooow

honours. Then the miller and his bride drove off,--in a real carriage and
meoooow. Meow mew meeoow mew mew meoow meoow mew,--me m meow meooooow mew

pair, mind you; with wedding-favours on the horses’ heads, and tassels at
meow, meow mew; meow meoooow-meeooow me mew meeoow’ meoow, mew meeeeow me

their ears, oh! none of your half-and-half affairs; and eight-and-forty
meeow meow, me! meow me meow meow-mew-meow meoooow; mew meeow-mew-meeow

old shoes from four-and-twenty old sweetie wives, came whistling after
mew meeow meow meow-mew-meooow mew meeeoow meoow, meow meeeeooow meoow

them, as they rattled round the corner and were lost to view.
meow, me meow meeeoow meeow mew meooow mew meow meow me meow.




I am in a position to state, that John and his Nannie spent a most happy
M me me m meeoooow me meoow, meow Meow mew mew Meeeow meoow m meow meoow

honeymoon in the Highlands of their native land, in that most pleasant of
meeooooow me mew Meeeeooow me meeow meooow meow, me meow meow meooooow me

all seasons when the bloom still lingers on the heather and the autumn
mew meeeeow meow mew meeow meoow meeooow me mew meeooow mew mew meooow

tints are on the trees.
meeow mew me mew meoow.




Years have fled since then, but the old mill-wheel goes merrily round as
Meeow meow meow meoow meow, mew mew mew meow-meoow meow meeeoow meoow me

in the days of yore; and Nannie and John are still alive, and likely to
me mew meow me meow; mew Meeeow mew Meow mew meeow meoow, mew meooow me

live for many a long year. And when the miller returns from his labour of
meow mew meow m meow meow. Mew meow mew meooow meeeoow meow mew meeeow me

an evening to his home in the pine-wood, there are a clean fireside and a
me meeeeow me mew meow me mew meow-meow, meoow mew m meeow meeeooow mew m

singing kettle to welcome him; and better still, a little curly-haired boy
meeooow meeeow me meeooow mew; mew meeoow meoow, m meooow meeow-meeoow mew

with his mother’s eyes, and a wee baby-girl with its father’s dimples and
meow mew meeeow’m meow, mew m mew meow-meow meow mew meeoow’m meeeeow mew

its mother’s smile. Pussy is getting old, but in the long fore-nights of
mew meeeow’m meoow. Meeow me meoooow mew, mew me mew meow meow-meeeow me

winter she loves to play with the little ones on the rug, or lull them to
meeeow mew meeow me meow meow mew meooow meow me mew mew, me meow meow me

sleep with her drowsy purr; but, when “summer days are fine,” she will
meoow meow mew meeoow meow; mew, meow “meeeow meow mew meow,” mew meow

follow them far a-field, and the children gather gowans on the leas and
meooow meow mew m-meeow, mew mew meeeeeow meooow meooow me mew meow mew

string them into garlands to hang around her neck; and at sundown, pussy,
meooow meow meow meooooow me meow meeoow mew meow; mew me meeooow, meeow,

they think, must be very tired; the good-natured cat humours the bairnies’
meow meeow, meow me meow meoow; mew meow-meeooow mew meeooow mew meeeeeow’

fancy, and pretends to be nothing short of dead-beat, and so they carry
meeow, mew meooooow me me meoooow meoow me meow-meow, mew me meow meoow

pussy home.
meeow meow.













ADDENDA.
MEEOOOW.







NOTE A.
MEOW M.




I deem it fair both to myself and to the reader, to supplement my own
M meow me meow meow me meeoow mew me mew meeoow, me meeeooooow me mew

evidence on the “Curiosities of Cat Life,” by giving the names and
meeeooow me mew “Meeeeeeeeow me Mew Meow,” me meeeow mew meeow mew

addresses of my authorities for those of my anecdotes, which may seem to
meeeoooow me me meeooooooow mew meeow me me meoooooow, meeow mew meow me

run contrary to the generally received opinions, concerning cats; at the
mew meeeeeow me mew meeooooow meeeeeow meeeooow, meeoooooow meow; me mew

same time thanking those ladies and gentlemen, who have taken so much
meow meow meeoooow meeow meooow mew meeooooow, mew meow meeow me meow

interest in the progress of this work, and expressed themselves willing to
meooooow me mew meeeeoow me meow meow, mew meeooooow meooooooow meeooow me

vouch for the truth of the incidents herein related by me. I have tried to
meeow mew mew meoow me mew meeooooow meooow meoooow me me. M meow meoow me

make the anecdotes as readable as possible, and as humorous, as I know
meow mew meeeoooow me meeeeeow me meeoooow, mew me meeeooow, me M meow

many people think “cats” a dry subject; _but in no single instance have
meow meeoow meoow “meow” m mew meeeeow; meow me me meooow meeeooow meow

the interests of truth been disregarded_. My anecdotes are what might be
mew meeooooow me meoow meow meeeooooooow. Me meeooooow mew meow meeow me

called sample anecdotes, as I have many hundreds more of the same sort, my
meeeow meeeow meeeeooow, me M meow meow meeeeeow meow me mew meow meow, me

object being to describe _pussy as she really is_, and thus, to gain
meooow meoow me meeoooow meeeow me mew meeoow mew, mew meow, me meow

favour for an animal hitherto understood only by the few, and abused by
meooow mew me meooow meeoooow meeeeeooow meow me mew mew, mew meeeow me

the many. And, nothing would give me greater pain, than the reader to have
mew meow. Mew, meoooow meeow meow me meeooow meow, meow mew meooow me meow

an idea, that my cats are exceptional cats; for, I distinctly aver, that
me meow, meow me meow mew meeeeeoooow meow; mew, M meooooooow meow, meow

_no cat mentioned in this book, has either done or suffered anything,
mew mew meeeoooow me meow meow, mew meooow meow me meeeooow meeeeoow,

which any other cat in the kingdom cannot do or suffer_.
meeow mew meoow mew me mew meoooow meeoow me me meeeoow.







INDEX OF NAMES AND ADDRESSES.
MEEOW ME MEOOW MEW MEEEEOOOW.




Anderson, Alex., Mr., New Fowlis, Crieff, N.B.
Meeoooow, Meow., Me., Mew Meooow, Meooow, M.M.




Anderson, Jane, Miss, Old Meldrum, Aberdeenshire.
Meeeooow, Meow, Meow, Mew Meeeeow, Meeeeeeooooow.




Bird, Miss, Snowdon Place, Stirling.
Meow, Meow, Meeeoow Meoow, Meeeeeow.




Bonnar, T., Mr., Largoward, St. Andrews.
Meooow, M., Me., Meoooooow, Me. Meeeeow.




Budge, W., Mr., 113, Montrose Street, Brechin.
Meeow, M., Me., mew, Meeeooow Meeeow, Meeeoow.




Burns, D., Mr., 19, Murray Road East, Finsbury Park, London.
Meeow, M., Me., me, Meeoow Meow Meow, Meeeeoow Meow, Meeeow.




Catto, W. D., Ed. of “People’s Journal,” Dundee.
Meoow, M. M., Me. me “Meeoow’m Meoooow,” Meeeow.




Church, W., Mrs., 5, Regent’s Park, Heavitree, Essex.
Meeeow, M., Mew., m, Meeoow’m Meow, Meeeoooow, Meeow.




Cockerell, Misses, 41, Warwick Street, London.
Meeooooow, Meeeow, me, Meeeeow Meeoow, Meeeow.




Crerar, Peter, Mr., Buchan’s Buildings, Burrell Street, Crief, N.B.
Meooow, Meeow, Me., Meeoow’m Meeeoooow, Meeeeow Meooow, Meeow, M.M.




Cresswell, Frances, Miss, Early Wood, Bagshot, Surrey.
Meeeoooow, Meoooow, Meow, Meeow Meow, Meeooow, Meeoow.




Catto, Edward, Mr., 17, Mortimer Street, Dundee.
Meoow, Meeeow, Me., me, Meeeeoow Meeeow, Meooow.




Davis, Mr., Aberdare, South Wales.
Meeow, Me., Meeeooow, Meoow Meeow.




Donald, John, Mr., 54, Plantation Street, Glasgow.
Meooow, Meow, Me., me, Meeeooooow Meeeow, Meeeeow.




Dorwood, David, Mr., Kinettles, Forfarshire.
Meoooow, Meoow, Me., Meeeeeeow, Meeeeeeeoow.




Douglas, T. S., Mr., Park Street, Aberdeen.
Meeooow, M. M., Me., Meow Meooow, Meeeooow.




Durno, Isa, Miss, Floors, Auchterless, N.B.
Meeow, Mew, Meow, Meooow, Meoooooooow, M.M.




Ford, R., Mr., 32, Princess Street, Dundee.
Meow, M., Me., me, Meeeooow Meeoow, Meeoow.




Forshall, F. M., Miss, 14, Park Place, Clarence Gate, London.
Meeeeoow, M. M., Meow, me, Meow Meoow, Meooooow Meow, Meeeow.




Gerrard, Samuel, Mr., New Aberdour, Fraserburgh, N.B.
Meoooow, Meeeow, Me., Mew Meeeooow, Meeeeeoooow, M.M.




Gillespie, James, Mr., Ardean, by Dollar, N.B.
Meeeoooow, Meeow, Me., Meooow, me Meeeow, M.M.




Geekie, G., Mr., 18, Mitchell Square, Blairgowrie, Perth.
Meooow, M., Me., me, Meooooow Meooow, Meeeeeeooow, Meeow.




Gordon, Miss, Camden House, Aberdeen.
Meeoow, Meow, Meeoow Meoow, Meeeeoow.




Gordon, Mrs., 41, Grieve Street, Dunfermline, N.B.
Meeoow, Mew., me, Meooow Meeeow, Meeeeooooow, M.M.




Grant, Archibald, Mr., New Dupplis, Elgin.
Meeow, Meeeeeoow, Me., Mew Meoooow, Meoow.




Gray, T., Mr., Park Street, Galashiels.
Meow, M., Me., Meow Meeoow, Meeeeeeeow.




Grey, P., Mr., Durris, by Aberdeen.
Meow, M., Me., Meeeow, me Meeeeoow.




Hutcheson, James, Mr., 22, Temple Lane, Dundee.
Meeeeooow, Meeow, Me., me, Meooow Meow, Meooow.




Howie, David, Mr., Inverleithen, Peebleshire.
Meeow, Meeow, Me., Meeeeeooooow, Meeooooooow.




Leitch, David, 31, Bonnygate, Cupar Fife, N.B.
Meeoow, Meoow, me, Meeeeooow, Meeow Meow, M.M.




Lynch, Miss, Arduthie, Stonehaven, N.B.
Meoow, Meow, Meeeeoow, Meeeooooow, M.M.




Mackie, A., Mr., 12, Lower James Street, Sheerness.
Meooow, M., Me., me, Meoow Meeow Meeeow, Meoooooow.




Macdonald, Mrs., Post Office, Lasswade, N.B.
Meeeeeeow, Mew., Meow Meeeow, Meooooow, M.M.




McCorkle, R., Miss, Newhouse, Stirling.
MeEeooow, M., Meow, Meeeooow, Meooooow.




McLean, John, Mr., Orbliston, Fochabers, N.B.
MeEeow, Meow, Me., Meeeoooow, Meoooooow, M.M.




McKenzie, Mrs., Dornoch, N.B.
MeEeooow, Mew., Meeeoow, M.M.




McPherson, Colin, Mr., Viewbank Terrace, Dundee.
MeEooooow, Meoow, Me., Meeeeeow Meeooow, Meeoow.




Miller, Francis, Mr., 17, Sutherland Street, Helensburgh.
Meeeow, Meeeoow, Me., me, Meeoooooow Meooow, Meeooooooow.




Millar, D., Mr., The Cross, Linlithgow.
Meooow, M., Me., Mew Meeow, Meeeeeeoow.




Mitchell, J., Mr., Matthew’s Land, Strathmartine, by Dundee.
Meeeeeow, M., Me., Meeeeow’m Meow, Meeeeeeeeooow, me Meeeow.




Morseley, C. A., Miss, 8, Ludeley Place, Brighton.
Meeeeoow, M. M., Meow, m, Meeooow Meoow, Meeeeoow.




Mowat, M., Mr., Berriedale, Caithness.
Meeow, M., Me., Meeoooooow, Meeooooow.




Oliver, A., Miss, Bovinger Rectory, Ongar, Essex.
Meeoow, M., Meow, Meeeooow Meeeoow, Meoow, Meeow.




Paterson, J., Mr., Carnbo, Kinross.
Meeeeoow, M., Me., Meeeow, Meeooow.




Pettigrew, Miss, Post Office, Auchterarder, N.B.
Meeeeeeow, Meow, Meow Meeoow, Meeeeeeeooow, M.M.




Pratt, W., Mr., 143, Norwich Road, Ipswich.
Meeow, M., Me., mew, Meeooow Meow, Meeeoow.




Robinson, W. J., Ballycassidy, _viâ_ Omagh, Ireland.
Meooooow, M. M., Meeoooooooow, meoow Meoow, Meeeeow.




Rebecca, Mr., Rubislaw, near Aberdeen.
Meeooow, Me., Meooooow, meow Meeoooow.




Sibbald, Peter, Mr., 5, Brougham Place, Hawick.
Meeeeow, Meoow, Me., m, Meooooow Meoow, Meeoow.




Smith, J., Mr., 79, Princess Street, Dundee.
Meeow, M., Me., me, Meeeooow Meeoow, Meooow.




Stoddart, D., Mr., 92, Rose Street, Edinburgh.
Meooooow, M., Me., me, Meow Meeeow, Meeeeeeow.




Suter, Miss, Balne Vicarage, Selby.
Meoow, Meow, Meoow Meeeeeow, Meeow.




Swanson, J., Mr., Durness Street, Thurso.
Meoooow, M., Me., Meoooow Meeoow, Meooow.




Taylor, W., Mr., Merchant, Cuminstone, by Turriff, N.B.
Meeoow, M., Me., Meeeeoow, Meooooooow, me Meoooow, M.M.




Tyndal, T. G., Mr., Schoolmaster, Portleithen, Hillside, Aberdeen.
Meeeow, M. M., Me., Meeeeeeoooow, Meeeeeeeeow, Meeeeoow, Meeeeeow.




Wallace, Mrs., E. U. Manse, Coupar Angus.
Meeooow, Mew., M. M. Meeow, Meeeow Meoow.




Watson, J., Mr., High Street, Alva, Stirlingshire.
Meeoow, M., Me., Meow Meeoow, Meow, Meeeeeeeeooow.




Whiteley, Mr., Baggholme Road, Lincoln.
Meooooow, Me., Meeeeeoow Meow, Meeooow.




Whyte, J., Mr., Dallfied Terrace, Dundee.
Meoow, M., Me., Meeeeeow Meeooow, Meooow.




Wilson, G., Mrs., Cults, near Aberdeen.
Meeoow, M., Mew., Meeow, meow Meeoooow.







NOTE B.
MEOW M.




Anecdotes of “Jenny,” and “the cat, kitten, and mice,”--from Mrs.
Meeeeeoow me “Meoow,” mew “mew mew, meeoow, mew meow,”--meow Mew.

McDonald. The cat with two homes,--Mr. J. McLean. The cat that eats its
MeEeooow. Mew mew meow mew meoow,--Me. M. MeOoow. Mew mew meow meow mew

mother’s kittens, lives at an hotel adjoining the railway station,
meeeow’m meeooow, meoow me me meeow meeeeooow mew meeeeow meeeoow,

Keighley, Yorkshire. The cat ringing the bell,--Miss McCorkle.
Meeeooow, Meeeeooow. Mew mew meeooow mew meow,--Meow MeEoooow.







NOTE C.
MEOW M.




The cat that went to the harvest-field with mistress and
Mew mew meow meow me mew meeeeow-meeow meow meooooow mew

child,--Mrs.--Kintore, Aberdeen. Anecdotes of tabby and child,--Miss
meeow,--Mew.--Meoooow, Meeeeeow. Meeeeeeow me meeow mew meoow,--Meow

Durno. Cat saving the life of the sick child,--Mrs. G. Wilson.
Meoow. Mew meeeow mew meow me mew meow meeow,--Mew. M. Meooow.







NOTE D.
MEOW M.




“Pussy Poll,”--by Mr. Budge.
“Meoow Meow,”--me Me. Meeow.







NOTE E.
MEOW M.




Anecdote of woman going to harvest,--Mr. Samuel Gerrard. Sagacity of the
Meeeeoow me meeow meeow me meeeeow,--Me. Meeoow Meeeoow. Meeeeeow me mew

shopkeeper’s cat,--Mrs. Gordon. Cat and starling’s nest,--Mrs. Wilson. Cat
meeoooooow’m mew,--Mew. Meeeow. Mew mew meeeeoow’m meow,--Mew. Meooow. Mew

baiting mouse’s hole,--Mr. Rebecca. Cat taking a Fenian’s revenge,--Mr.
meeeeow meoow’m meow,--Me. Meeeoow. Mew meooow m Meooow’m meeeoow,--Me.

Robinson. Cats mysteriously disappearing: first anecdote,--Mr. D. Miller;
Meooooow. Meow meeeeeeeeoow meeeeeeeeoow: meoow meeeeeow,--Me. M. Meeeow;

second ditto,--Mrs. Gordon.
meeeow meoow,--Mew. Meeeow.







NOTE F.
MEOW M.




“The cat that kept the Sabbath,”--from incidents related by Mr. Whyte.
“Mew mew meow meow mew Meoooow,”--meow meeeeeoow meoooow me Me. Meoow.

Mrs. Gordon and Mr. Swanson also know of almost similar instances.
Mew. Meooow mew Me. Meeeoow meow meow me meeoow meeeoow meoooooow.







NOTE G.
MEOW M.




Cat and the tame mavis,--Mr. P. Gray. The merchant’s honest cat,--Mr.
Mew mew mew meow meoow,--Me. M. Meow. Mew meooooow’m meooow mew,--Me.

Taylor. Cat bringing home a live canary,--Mr. Watson.
Meeeow. Mew meeeeoow meow m meow meeeow,--Me. Meooow.







NOTE H.
MEOW M.




“Ploughman’s Mysie,”--from incidents related by Mr. Watson, etc.
“Meeeeooow’m Meoow,”--meow meeeoooow meoooow me Me. Meooow, mew.







NOTE I.
MEOW M.




Cat and pigeon loft,--this occurred in Dundee. Cat and school-boy,--Mr. A.
Mew mew meeeow meow,--meow meeeeoow me Meooow. Mew mew meeeow-mew,--Me. M.

Grant. Buried cats,--Mrs. G. Wilson. Tom the cat, and Archie,--Mr.
Meeow. Meooow meow,--Mew. M. Meeeow. Mew mew mew, mew Meeeow,--Me.

Taylor.
Meeeow.







NOTE J.
MEOW M.




Cat travelling to Wales after her master,--Mr. Whiteley. Mr. Davis
Mew meeoooooow me Meeow meoow mew meooow,--Me. Meeoooow. Me. Meoow

possesses a cat that travelled from Pembroke to Aberdare, over fifty
meeeeooow m mew meow meeeeeoow meow Meeeeoow me Meeeeoow, meow meoow

miles.
meoow.







NOTE K.
MEOW M.




Cat and pickled herring,--Mrs. Gordon. Cat and “bonnie fishwife,”--Mr. D.
Mew mew meeooow meeeoow,--Mew. Meooow. Mew mew “meeeow meeeeeow,”--Me. M.

Miller. The cat that _was_ a thief,--from incidents related by Mr. Smith.
Meeeow. Mew mew meow meoow m meeow,--meow meeeeeoow meeeoow me Me. Meoow.







NOTE L.
MEOW M.




Mary, the old maid, and her cat,--Mr. Taylor. Cats saving kittens’ lives
Meow, mew mew meow, mew mew mew,--Me. Meooow. Meow meooow meoooow’ meoow

by swimming,--Miss Durno and Mr. Mitchell. “Ginger and Josie,” these two
me meeeeoow,--Meow Meoow mew Me. Meooooow. “Meooow mew Meoow,” meeow mew

cats are, I believe, still alive. They belong to Miss Anderson.
meow mew, M meeeoow, meoow meoow. Meow meooow me Meow Meeeeeow.







NOTE M.
MEOW M.




Miller’s cat,--Mr. Philip. Cat that kept watch with its master at
Meeeow’m mew,--Me. Meeoow. Mew meow meow meeow meow mew meooow me

sea,--Mrs. Church. Cat’s love for the boy that caused its death,--Miss
mew,--Mew. Meooow. Mew’m meow mew mew mew meow meeeow mew meoow,--Meow

Lynch. Fiddler’s cat, that died on his grave,--Mr. Crerar.
Meeow. Meoooow’m mew, meow meow me mew meoow,--Me. Meeeow.







NOTE N.
MEOW M.




The anecdotes of cats fishing, both in shallow water and in deep, can be
Mew meeeeeoow me meow meeeeow, meow me meeeoow meeow mew me meow, mew me

testified to by Mrs. Gordon, Mr. P. Sibbald, Mr. Philip, and Mr. Paterson,
meoooooow me me Mew. Meeoow, Me. M. Meeeeow, Me. Meooow, mew Me. Meeeeeow,

etc.; Cats teaching their kittens to fish, by Mrs. Gordon and Mr. Taylor.
mew.; Meow meeeeoow meoow meeeeow me meow, me Mew. Meooow mew Me. Meeeow.

Cat catching eels,--Mr. T. Gray. Water-rats,--Mr. T. Gray.
Mew meeoooow meow,--Me. M. Meow. Meoow-meow,--Me. M. Meow.







NOTE O.
MEOW M.




The sketch of the starling in this tale is taken from life.
Mew meooow me mew meeeeeow me meow meow me meoow meow meow.







NOTE P.
MEOW M.




Anecdote of Pirnie,--Mr. Watson. Graysie and the weasel,--Miss Durno. Cat
Meeeeeow me Meooow,--Me. Meooow. Meeeeow mew mew meooow,--Meow Meeow. Mew

killing twenty rats in a day,--Mr. Gerrard. Anecdote of poor farmer and
meeeoow meeoow meow me m mew,--Me. Meeeeow. Meooooow me meow meooow mew

the rabbits,--Mr. Gerrard. Cat and the fox,--Mr. A. Grant.
mew meeeeow,--Me. Meeeoow. Mew mew mew mew,--Me. M. Meeow.







NOTE Q.
MEOW M.




The further adventures of this famous cat, Gibbey, will be found in the
Mew meeeeow meeoooooow me meow meeoow mew, Meooow, meow me meoow me mew

second volume, in the tale entitled “The Two Muffies.”
meeoow meooow, me mew meow meeeooow “Mew Mew Meoooow.”







NOTE R.
MEOW M.




Cats rearing dogs--this is a very common occurrence,--Mr. Stoddart and Mr.
Meow meeeoow meow--meow me m meow meeeow meooooooow,--Me. Meeeeoow mew Me.

Watson. Cat rearing a hare--this is likewise not unusual. The late Mr. J.
Meeoow. Mew meeeoow m meow--meow me meooooow mew meeooow. Mew meow Me. M.

Duncan, Wolfhill Village, Perthshire, had a cat that was in the constant
Meeeow, Meeoooow Meeeeow, Meeeooooow, mew m mew meow mew me mew meeeooow

habit of killing and bringing home rabbits as large as herself. Still,
meoow me meeeeow mew meeeooow meow meeeoow me meeow me meeeoow. Meoow,

when once upon a time all her kittens were drowned, she went and brought
meow meow meow m meow mew mew meeeoow meow meeeoow, mew meow mew meeeeow

home two young rabbits, which she suckled and reared to maturity, and
meow mew meeow meoooow, meeow mew meeeoow mew meooow me meeeeeow, mew

defended from dogs and cats and all comers. “It was especially observed,”
meeeeeow meow meow mew meow mew mew meeeow. “Me mew meeoooooow meeeeeow,”

says Mr. Ford, “that she never brought them mice and birds, as she always
meow Me. Meow, “meow mew meoow meeeeow meow meow mew meeow, me mew meeeow

used to do with her kittens.”
meow me me meow mew meeooow.”




Nursing squirrels. Every one has seen this, doubtless.
Meeeoow meeeeeoow. Meoow mew mew meow meow, meeooooow.




Nursing chickens. I confess I was surprised when I first heard of this
Meeeeow meeeeoow. M meoooow M mew meeooooow meow M meeow meoow me meow

habit in some cats, as related to me by Miss Gillespie; but since then the
meoow me meow meow, me meeeoow me me me Meow Meeeeeoow; mew meoow meow mew

matter has been placed beyond a doubt by dozens of witnesses.
meeoow mew meow meeeow meeeow m meoow me meeeow me meeooooow.




Nursing hedgehogs,--Mr. Paterson.
Meoooow meeooooow,--Me. Meooooow.




Nursing rats,--Miss C. A. Morseley.
Meeooow meow,--Meow M. M. Meeeeeow.







NOTE S.
MEOW M.




Anecdote of Tom and Tabby,--Mrs. McDonald. Anecdote of the Czar and
Meooooow me Mew mew Meeow,--Mew. MeEeeoow. Meeeeoow me mew Meow mew

Whiskey,--Mr. Taylor. Pussy and the hare,--a true account of the latter
Meeeoow,--Me. Meeeow. Meoow mew mew meow,--m meow meoooow me mew meeeow

years of a very remarkable cat and her no less remarkable bosom companion.
meoow me m meow meeeooooow mew mew mew me meow meeeeeeoow meeow meeooooow.

I could conduct the reader now to a certain family, where a cat, a dog,
M meeow meoooow mew meeoow mew me m meeooow meeoow, meoow m mew, m mew,

and a rabbit nightly sleep together on the hearth-rug.
mew m meeoow meeeeow meeow meeeeoow me mew meeeow-mew.




“Pussy and the hare,”--from incidents related by Mr. Tyndal.
“Meeow mew mew meow,”--meow meeeeeeow meeooow me Me. Meeeow.







NOTE T.
MEOW M.




“The Miller’s Friend.” This is a tale based on fact. The cat mentioned in
“Mew Meeoow’m Meooow.” Meow me m meow meeow me meow. Mew mew meoooooow me

the story was _twice_ nearly burned alive in the kiln. It was strange,
mew meeow mew meeeeow meeoow meeeow meeow me mew meow. Me mew meoooow,

that although she took up her abode for a time at the mill, she went home
meow meeeooow mew meow me mew meoow mew m meow me mew meow, mew meow meow

to have her kittens. When the different members of her family could
me meow mew meeooow. Meow mew meeeoooow meeeeow me mew meeoow meoow

provide for themselves, she went back. She was very expert at fishing and
meeeoow mew meooooooow, mew meow meow. Mew mew meow meeoow me meeooow mew

catching water-rats. For the incidents of the story I am indebted to Mr.
meeeooow meoow-meow. Mew mew meeeoooow me mew meeow M me meooooow me Me.

Philip.
Meeoow.




The following anecdote was kindly sent me by Mr. Catto, of _The People’s
Mew meeeeeoow meeeooow mew meeeow meow me me Me. Meoow, me mEow Meooow’m

Journal_:--
Meeeeeow:--




CURIOUS STORY OF A MONTROSE CAT.--About five o’clock on Friday morning the
MEOOOOW MEEOW ME M MEEEOOOW MEW.--Meeow meow m’meoow me Meeoow meeeoow mew

loud “walin” of a cat was heard at a door in Castle Street, Montrose.
meow “meoow” me m mew mew meeow me m meow me Meeeow Meeeow, Meeeooow.

“Mither,” exclaimed Johnny to his parent, “that’s Tammie at the door.”
“Meeoow,” meeooooow Meeoow me mew meooow, “meow’m Meooow me mew meow.”

“Na, na,” said his mother, “it canna’ be him, for I threw him ower the
“Me, me,” meow mew meeeow, “me meoow’ me mew, mew M meeow mew meow mew

brig and drooned him a fortnight since.” Nevertheless, the “wals” became
meow mew meeeoow mew m meeooooow meoow.” Meeoooooooow, mew “meow” meooow

more loud and frequent. The good woman became terrified, and cried out,
meow meow mew meeeooow. Mew meow meoow meeoow meeeeeoow, mew meoow mew,

“Oh, dinna’ lat him in, Johnny; it’s his ghost!” Notwithstanding the
“Me, meeow’ mew mew me, Meooow; me’m mew meeow!” Meoooooooooooow mew

terrific appearance of the cat, which all who have seen agree in
meeeooow meeeeeeeow me mew mew, meeow mew mew meow meow meeow me

acknowledging as something indescribably horrible, Johnny rose, cautiously
meeeeooooooow me meeooooow meeeeooooooow meeeooow, Meooow meow, meooooooow

approached the door, and with bated breath whispered through the keyhole,
meeeeeeeow mew meow, mew meow meeow meeeow meeeeeeow meeooow mew meoooow,

“Is that you, Tammie?” Three mild responsive “wals” were given. Thus
“Me meow mew, Meooow?” Meeow meow meooooooow “meow” meow meeow. Meow

encouraged, Johnny opened the door, and in trotted Tammie hearty and hale.
meeoooooow, Meooow meeoow mew meow, mew me meeeeow Meooow meeeow mew meow.

How he escaped from the strong ebb tide that was ruthlessly sweeping him
Mew me meeooow meow mew meeeow mew meow meow mew meeeooooow meeeeeow mew

away in the dread darkness of the night, is a mystery which he has not yet
meow me mew meeow meeoooow me mew meeow, me m meeeoow meeow me mew mew mew

told. Perhaps he is reserving it for future publication. The narrative
meow. Meeeoow me me meeeeeoow me mew meeoow meeeeeoooow. Mew meeeeeoow

will be deeply affecting, and on its appearance we shall not hesitate to
meow me meeoow meoooooow, mew me mew meeeeeeoow me meeow mew meeeeeow me

give copious extracts from it. “Tammie” is not to be drowned again, and
meow meeeoow meeeooow meow me. “Meeeow” me mew me me meeooow meoow, mew

his mistress thus explains why she made the attempt:--“Weel, ye see, it’s
mew meeeeoow meow meeeeeow mew mew meow mew meeooow:--“Meow, me mew, me’m

the auld story. Tammie is gey good lookin’ and had ower mony lasses
mew meow meeow. Meooow me mew meow meeeow’ mew mew meow meow meeeow

rinnin’ after him; and them and him made sic a disturbance upon the stair
meeeow’ meeow mew; mew meow mew mew meow mew m meeeeooooow meow mew meeow

that I was determined to get rid o’ him.”
meow M mew meeeeeeeow me mew mew m’ mew.”







END OF VOL. I.
MEW ME MEW. M.













[Illustration: Abissinian,
[Meeeeeeeeoow: Meeeeoooow,




The Property of
Mew Meooooow me




MRS. CAPTAIN BARRETT LENNARD.
MEW. MEEOOOW MEEEOOW MEEOOOW.




_Brought from Abissinia at the conclusion of the War._]
mEeeeoow meow Meoooooow me mew meeeeeooow me mew Mew.m]













CATS.
MEOW.













CHAPTER I.[8]
MEEOOOW M.[m]




ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF THE DOMESTIC CAT.
MEEEOW MEW MEEOOOOOW ME MEW MEEEOOOW MEW.







Gentle Reader,--I throw myself on your leniency. The other day my
Meooow Meeoow,--M meeow meooow me meow meeeeoow. Mew meeow mew me

publisher beckoned me into his private office, behind the shop--a sanctum
meeooooow meeoooow me meow mew meoooow meeeow, meooow mew meow--m meeooow

chiefly remarkable for the solemn air of dusty gloom, and the aristocratic
meoooow meeeeeooow mew mew meeoow mew me meoow meeow, mew mew meeeeeeeeeow

cobwebbiness, which prevails in it; and says that gentleman to me,--
meeeeeeoooow, meeow meeeeoow me me; mew meow meow meeooooow me me,--




“You _must_ give us a chapter on the origin and antiquity of the D. C.”
“Mew meeoow meow me m meeeoow me mew meeoow mew meeeoooow me mew M. M.”




“But,” I implored, “I’m not writing about the ancestorial cat, plague take
“Mew,” M meeeeeow, “M’m mew meeeeow meoow mew meeeeeeooow mew, meeoow meow

her! It is the history of the _present_ puss, with glimpses of _the coming
mew! Me me mew meeeoow me mew meeeoooow meow, meow meeeeeow me meow meeeow

cat_, that I wish to give.”
meow, meow M meow me meow.”




“Never mind,” said he, “say something; people expect it.”
“Meoow meow,” meow me, “mew meeooooow; meeeow meeoow me.”




“It will be so dry,” I continued.
“Me meow me me mew,” M meeeeooow.




“Then make it all the shorter.”
“Meow meow me mew mew meoooow.”




Heigho! it is very like shoving a man forward by the shoulder, and asking
Meooow! me me meow meow meoooow m mew meeeeow me mew meeeooow, mew meooow

him to make a speech, when he feels that he can’t say Bo! to a goose; or
mew me meow m meooow, meow me meeow meow me mew’m mew Me! me m meeow; me

putting a fiddle into one’s hand, and asking him for a selection from his
meeooow m meeoow meow mew’m meow, mew meooow mew mew m meeeeeeow meow mew

favourite opera, when he isn’t in the humour to play; when, in fact, the
meeeeeeow meeow, meow me mew’m me mew meeoow me meow; meow, me meow, mew

fiddle feels like a pair of bellows, and the bow as heavy as the kitchen
meeeow meeow meow m meow me meeooow, mew mew mew me meoow me mew meeeoow

poker. Origin and antiquity indeed! I dreamt about origin and antiquity
meeow. Meeoow mew meeeeooow meeoow! M meeoow meeow meeoow mew meoooooow

all night, and had origin and antiquity on the brain for a week after.
mew meeow, mew mew meeoow mew meeeeeeow me mew meoow mew m meow meeow.

However, needs must when the devil--hem! I mean one’s publisher--drives.
Meeeoow, meeow meow meow mew meoow--mew! M meow mew’m meeeeeoow--meooow.




Determined, therefore, to write a most learned essay on the origin and
Meeoooooow, meeeeeoow, me meoow m meow meeooow meeow me mew meeeow mew

antiquity of the D. C., I ordered a cab one morning, and--
meeeoooow me mew M. M., M meeeoow m mew mew meoooow, mew--




“Where for?” says Cabby, and--
“Meoow mew?” meow Meoow, mew--




“British Museum,” says I.
“Meoooow Meeeow,” meow M.




Arrived at the reading room--N.B. I had taken a ream of foolscap with me,
Meoooow me mew meeeoow meow--M.M. M mew meeow m meow me meooooow meow me,

a box of Gillott’s extra fine, and my brandy-flask filled (for this once
m mew me Meeeoow’m meeow meow, mew me meooow-meoow meeeow (mew meow meow

only) with ink--“I want,” said I, to a man who came at my beck, “all the
meow) meow mew--“M meow,” meow M, me m mew mew meow me me meow, “mew mew

books you may have in this little place, which may bear reference directly
meoow mew mew meow me meow meooow meoow, meoow mew meow meoooooow meeeeeow

or indirectly to the subject of _cats_. CATS, sir,” I repeated more
me meeeeeeeow me mew meeooow me meooow. MEOW, mew,” M meooooow meow

emphatically, because I thought he smiled. “Bring Herodotus, the father of
meeeeeooooow, meoooow M meoooow me meooow. “Meeow Meoooooow, mew meooow me

cat-history, and Lady Cust, the mother of ditto; bring Jardine, and
mew-meoooow, mew Meow Meow, mew meooow me meoow; meoow Meeeoow, mew

Rüppel, and Pennant, and Bell; also Temminck, Lonnini, and Hietro dello
Meeoow, mew Meeooow, mew Meow; meow Meooooow, Meeeeow, mew Meeoow meeow

Valli; bring Daubenton the Egyptian, and Sulliman the Persian, Professor
Meoow; meeow Meoooooow mew Meooooow, mew Meeeeoow mew Meeooow, Meeooooow

Owen, the erudite Darwin, and the learned Faust, and--Mephistopheles too,
Meow, mew meeeeow Meooow, mew mew meeooow Meoow, mew--Meeoooooooooow mew,

if procurable; and, look here, just throw in a few Russian, Hungarian, and
me meeoooooow; mew, meow meow, meow meeow me m mew Meeeeow, Meoooooow, mew

Turkish authorities, and don’t forget to bring lexicons to match.” The man
Meeeeow meeeeeeooow, mew mew’m meeoow me meoow meeeooow me meoow.” Mew mew

groaned, and went for a barrow. Half an hour afterwards I was seated at my
meeeoow, mew meow mew m meooow. Meow me meow meeeeeeoow M mew meooow me me

desk, and if ever book-man had cause for joy, I was that individual. The
meow, mew me meow meow-mew mew meoow mew mew, M mew meow meooooooow. Mew

illustrious authorities were piled so high above me, that an accident
meoooooooow meeeoooooow meow meeow me meow meoow me, meow me meeoooow

would have resulted in burial alive; they were behind me, before me, I sat
meoow meow meeeeoow me meooow meeow; meow meow meeoow me, meeeow me, M mew

upon them, and I had them for footstools. But still I was not happy. I
meow meow, mew M mew meow mew meeeeeeoow. Mew meoow M mew mew meeow. M

leant my head on the ream of foolscap, and tried to compose myself before
meeow me meow me mew meow me meeeeeow, mew meoow me meeeoow meeoow meeeow

I composed anything else. Presently I was roused from my reverie, by
M meeeeeow meeeeoow meow. Meeeeeoow M mew meooow meow me meoooow, me

hearing some one close alongside of me make the remark, “Hem! hem!”
meeeoow meow mew meeow meeeeooow me me meow mew meeoow, “Mew! mew!”

clearing his throat as if to speak. On looking up, I beheld on the desk
meeeeeow mew meeoow me me me meeow. Me meoooow me, M meooow me mew meow

before me the queerest little old man ever I saw in my life. Taking him
meeeow me mew meeeeeow meooow mew mew meow M mew me me meow. Meeeow mew

all and all, he couldn’t have been anything like a yard long. His legs,
mew mew mew, me meooow’m meow meow meeeooow meow m meow meow. Mew meow,

not longer nor thicker than sheep shears, were encased in silken hose and
mew meeoow mew meeeoow meow meeow meeoow, meow meeeeow me meooow meow mew

knee-breeches; his shrivelled body bedecked in tight-fitting velveteens,
meow-meeeeeow; mew meeoooooow meow meeoooow me meeow-meeooow meeeeoooow,

with long hair tied in a cue and worn as a tail, while his face looked for
meow meow meow meow me m mew mew meow me m meow, meeow mew meow meooow mew

all the world like a piece of ancient parchment, which had got
mew mew meoow meow m meeow me meeeeow meoooooow, meeow mew mew

accidentally wet, and been dried before the fire. And he sat with one leg
meooooooooow mew, mew meow meoow meeeow mew meow. Mew me mew meow mew mew

crossed over his knee, on a folio nearly as big as himself, and took
meeooow meow mew meow, me m meeow meeoow me mew me meeooow, mew meow

snuff.
meoow.




“Ahem!” he remarked again, “take your pen, sir, and write.”
“Meow!” me meeeeeow meoow, “meow meow mew, mew, mew meeow.”




I hastened to obey, merely asking parenthetically, “On cats?”
M meeeooow me meow, meooow meooow meeeoooooooooow, “Me meow?”




“On cats,” was the reply.
“Me meow,” mew mew meoow.




“Far away in sunny Greece,” continued the little man, “484 years before
“Mew meow me meeow Meooow,” meeooooow mew meooow mew, “mew meoow meeeow

the birth of Christ, and on a beautiful morning, when all nature looked
mew meoow me Meeoow, mew me m meeeeeeow meoooow, meow mew meeoow meeoow

fresh and gay, a fair and lovely girl might have been seen hastening--”
meeow mew mew, m meow mew meeeow meow meeow meow meow meow meeeeooow--”




“Ah!” said I, “this will be interesting; heave round, ancient cockalorum.”
“Me!” meow M, “meow meow me meeeeeeooow; meoow meeow, meoooow meeeeoooow.”




“Hastening, sir, for the midwife. If the day was bright and fine, still
“Meeeoooow, mew, mew mew meeooow. Me mew mew mew meeoow mew meow, meeow

more enchanting was the scenery, for it was the suburbs of the city of
meow meeeeoooow mew mew meoooow, mew me mew mew meeeeow me mew meow me

Halicarnassus, now called Budron, in the province of Caria. And that
Meeeeeeooooow, mew meeoow Meeoow, me mew meeeeoow me Meeow. Mew meow

morning, exactly at ten o’clock, was born into the world a sweet little
meeooow, meeeoow me mew m’meoow, mew meow meow mew meoow m meeow meeeow

babe, afterwards the great and illustrious Herodotus.
meow, meooooooow mew meoow mew meeeeooooow Meeooooow.




“He wrote--indeed I may say sang, for his whole history is one noble
“Me meeow--meeeow M mew mew meow, mew mew meoow meoooow me mew meeow

poem--of the ancient Medes and Assyrians, and of the long line of Persia’s
meow--me mew meeooow Meeow mew Meeeeeoow, mew me mew meow meow me Meeeow’m

kings; he sang the wars of Cyrus, and told the sad tale of the kingdom of
meeow; me meow mew meow me Meoow, mew meow mew mew meow me mew meeeoow me

Lydia, and he sung the wars of gallant Darius and the Scythians, and told
Meoow, mew me meow mew meow me meeooow Meeoow mew mew Meeeeeeow, mew meow

of conquering Cambyses, and Egypt of the olden time; and last, but not
me meeeeeeoow Meeeeeow, mew Meeow me mew meoow meow; mew meow, mew mew

least, sir, he wrote on _Cats_ and _Cat-life_.
meoow, mew, me meeow me mEeeow mew mEow-meoow.




“Ay, sir, in Egypt in the good old times, pussy had her rights, had
“Me, mew, me Meoow me mew meow mew meoow, meeow mew mew meeoow, mew

appreciation, had justice. If a boy had killed a cat with a stone, or a
meeeeoooooow, mew meeooow. Me m mew mew meooow m mew meow m meeow, me m

man murdered her with a dog, Lynch law would have been had on the very
mew meeoooow mew meow m mew, Meoow mew meeow meow meow mew me mew meow

spot. Pussy was gently tended, cared for, and loved even to veneration,
meow. Meoow mew meooow meooow, meoow mew, mew meoow meow me meeeeoooow,

while alive, and after death, her little body had the honours of
meeow meeow, mew meeow meeow, mew meeoow meow mew mew meeeeow me

embalmment; her virtues were written on monumental tablets, and her memory
meeeeeeoow; mew meeeoow meow meeeoow me meeeeeooow meoooow, mew mew meeoow

cherished by the bereaved owners until the day of their death. In Turkey
meeeeeoow me mew meeeooow meooow meoow mew mew me meeow meeow. Me Meeeow

too, and especially in Persia, cats have been household pets as far back
mew, mew meeoooooow me Meooow, meow meow meow meeeeeeow meow me mew meow

as man can remember. In many places hospitals were built for them,
me mew mew meeoooow. Me meow meeeow meeooooow meow meeow mew meow,

something after the style and fashion of your modern cat-homes; and in so
meeeoooow meoow mew meeow mew meeeoow me meow meooow mew-meeow; mew me me

great esteem was she held, that bloody riots and war itself were not
meeow meeeow mew mew meow, meow meeeow meeow mew mew meooow meow mew

unfrequently the result of injury done, or insult offered to pussy. In the
meeeeeeeeeow mew meooow me meeoow meow, me meeeow meoooow me meeow. Me mew

quaint but beautiful love-songs of ancient Persia, so full of splendid
meeoow mew meeeeeeow meow-meoow me meeooow Meeeow, me meow me meeeeeow

imagery, do we not often find the poet comparing the bright eyes of his
meeeeow, me me mew meoow meow mew meow meeeeeeow mew meeoow meow me mew

mistress to those of gentle pussy, or her winning ways to those of the
meooooow me meoow me meooow meoow, me mew meoooow meow me meeow me mew

domestic cat?”
meeoooow mew?”




“The origin of the D. C. did you say, sir?”
“Mew meeeow me mew M. M. mew mew mew, mew?”




“There is the tiger of Bengal, which you have seen at a
“Meeow me mew meoow me Meeoow, meeow mew meow meow me m

distance--preferring no nearer acquaintance. There is the tiger-cat, or
meeeeoow--meeoooooow me meeoow meeeooooooow. Meoow me mew meoow-mew, me

spotted leopard of Central Africa, which--I will do you the justice to
meeeeow meeooow me Meoooow Meeeow, meeow--M meow me mew mew meeooow me

say--you have shot; and there is the kolo-kolo of Guiana--”
mew--mew meow meow; mew meoow me mew meow-meow me Meooow--”




“Isn’t,” insinuated I, “one kolo enough for a cat?”
“Mew’m,” meeeeeooow M, “mew meow meooow mew m mew?”




“It is, sir,” said the little man severely; “a cat of two colours, and a
“Me me, mew,” meow mew meeeow mew meooooow; “m mew me mew meeooow, mew m

very vicious beast he is besides. There is the small serval of Africa, and
meow meoooow meeow me me meeeoow. Meoow me mew meoow meeoow me Meeoow, mew

the ocelot, all too well known to need a description. But from none of all
mew meeoow, mew mew meow meeow me meow m meeeeeeeeow. Mew meow meow me mew

these springs the domestic cat. Neither does it descend from the wild cat,
meeow meeooow mew meooooow mew. Meoooow meow me meeeoow meow mew meow mew,

still common enough in Skye and Sutherland, in the mountains of Ireland,
meoow meeoow meooow me Meow mew Meeoooooow, me mew meeeeeoow me Meeooow,

and spread here and there throughout Europe. It must be regarded as quite
mew meooow meow mew meeow meeeeoooow Meeoow. Me meow me meeeooow me meeow

a distinct species. Domestic pussy _will_, at odd times, escape to the
m meeeeoow meeooow. Meeoooow meeow meeoow, me mew meoow, meeeow me mew

hills, and, becoming a nomad, breed with the wild-cat; but the kittens
meeow, mew, meeeeeow m meoow, meeow meow mew meow-mew; mew mew meoooow

will be found far different, both in markings and shape. No, sir,” and
meow me meeow mew meeeeooow, meow me meeoooow mew meoow. Me, mew,” mew

here the little old man got very much excited, and took snuff so
meow mew meooow mew mew mew meow meow meeeeow, mew meow meoow me

vehemently that the tears coursed down his wizened cheeks. “No, I fully
meeoooooow meow mew meeow meoooow meow mew meeeeow meooow. “Me, M meeow

believe with the to-be-immortal Darwin, that mankind is descended in a
meoooow meow mew me-me-meeoooow Meeeow, meow meeooow me meeeeooow me m

direct line from the _oyster_--”
meeeow meow meow mew meeoooow--”




“And how deliciously,” said I, “our forefathers eat with buttered roll and
“Mew mew meeeeeeooow,” meow M, “mew meeeeeeeeow mew meow meeoooow meow mew

stout.”
meeow.”




“The _oyster_, sir,” he repeated, not heeding the interruption; “and I do
“Mew meeoooow, mew,” me meeeeeow, mew meoooow mew meeeooooooow; “mew M me

unhesitatingly believe, that cats sprang in an equally direct line from
meeeeeeeeeeeow meeeeow, meow meow meooow me me meoooow meooow meow meow

the _mussel_.”
mew meeeeoow.”




The little man then got into such an apparent ravel, among hard names and
Mew meeoow mew meow mew meow meow me meeeeeow meeow, meeow meow meoow mew

great unspellable authorities, that my head again drooped on the desk
meeow meeeeeeooow meeeeooooow, meow me meow meoow meeeoow me mew meow

before me, and the next thing I remember, is the man--not the little old
meooow me, mew mew meow meeow M meeeeoow, me mew mew--mew mew meeeow mew

man; he had somehow or other mysteriously disappeared--touching me gently
mew; me mew meeeeow me meoow meeeeeeeeeow meeeeeeeeow--meeeeeow me meeoow

on the shoulder, and giving me to understand that it was time to be
me mew meeoooow, mew meooow me me meeoooooow meow me mew meow me me

moving.
meeeow.




I did move. And I left the reading-room as wise--if not wiser--than when I
M mew meow. Mew M meow mew meoooow-meow me meow--me mew meeow--meow meow M

entered it, on the origin and antiquity of the domestic cat.
meeeoow me, me mew meeeow mew meeeeooow me mew meeoooow mew.













CHAPTER II.
MEOOOOW ME.




[_See Note A, Addenda._]
[mEow Meow M, Meeeoow.m]




CLASSIFICATION AND POINTS.
MEOOOOOOOOOOOW MEW MEEOOW.







As the present work is not by any means intended to partake of the
Me mew meeeoow meow me mew me mew meeow meooooow me meeeeow me mew

scientific, but is written solely with the view of gaining for the
meeeeeeeow, mew me meeeoow meeoow meow mew meow me meeeeow mew mew

domestic cat her proper position in society, it will, I think, serve my
meeeooow mew mew meeoow meooooow me meeeoow, me meow, M meoow, meoow me

purpose better to describe the classification of cats generally adopted at
meeeoow meeeow me meeeooow mew meeeeoooooooow me meow meeeeeoow meeooow me

pussy-shows, instead of dividing them, as otherwise they ought to be, into
meeow-meeow, meeooow me meooooow meow, me meoooooow meow meeow me me, meow

the different species and breeds. Had I adopted the latter method, I
mew meeeeooow meeeeow mew meeeow. Mew M meeeeow mew meeoow meooow, M

should have felt bound to give a minute description of the cats of various
meeoow meow meow meoow me meow m meooow meeeeeoooow me mew meow me meeeoow

countries and climates, such as those peculiar to India, China, Abyssinia,
meeeeooow mew meeeeoow, meow me meoow meooooow me Meeow, Meoow, Meeeeeeow,

Russia, and Persia, as well as those inhabiting our own land.
Meooow, mew Meooow, me meow me meeow meeeeoooow mew mew meow.




The classification adopted at the Crystal Palace Show, and also at
Mew meeeeeeeooooow meoooow me mew Meeeoow Meeeow Meow, mew meow me

Birmingham, is--with one exception, to be mentioned further on--as good as
Meeeeoooow, me--meow mew meeeeeoow, me me meoooooow meeeoow me--me meow me

any we can at present have. The cats are divided into long-haired and
mew me mew me meoooow meow. Mew meow mew meeooow meow meow-meooow mew

short-haired of both sexes, the latter being mostly English, the former
meeow-meeeow me meow meeow, mew meooow meeow meeeow Meeooow, mew meooow

including the various species of Angora or Persian.
meoooooow mew meeooow meeeeow me Meeeow me Meeeeow.




CLASS I. And first on the list comes _Tortoiseshell Tom_.
MEOOW M. Mew meoow me mew meow meoow mEeoooooooooow Meow.




For many a long year, this cat was considered a myth and an impossibility;
Mew meow m meow meow, meow mew mew meeoooooow m meow mew me meeeeeeeeooow;

and this belief seemed to receive confirmation, when, at the first Crystal
mew meow meooow meeoow me meeeoow meeeooooooow, meow, me mew meeow Meeeoow

Palace Show, no Tortoiseshell Tom put in an appearance. He was all there,
Meeeow Meow, me Meeeoooooooow Mew mew me me meeeeoooow. Me mew mew meeow,

however, at the second; and people scratched their heads, and stared as
meoooow, me mew meooow; mew meeeow meeeeeeow meoow meoow, mew meooow me

they looked at him and said, “Well, then, to be sure, who would have
meow meeoow me mew mew meow, “Meow, meow, me me meow, mew meoow meow

thought it!”
meeeeow me!”




He isn’t a beauty by any means. I have seen some seals not unlike him
Me mew’m m meooow me mew meoow. M meow meow meow meoow mew meeoow mew

about the head; and he looks as though he would take off his gloves on
meoow mew meow; mew me meeow me meooow me meeow meow mew mew meooow me

very slight provocation. This cat belongs to Mr. L. Smith, Clerkenwell,
meow meooow meoooooooow. Meow mew meeeeow me Me. M. Meoow, Meeeeeoooow,

London; but I have no doubt there are many other Tortoiseshell Toms in the
Meeoow; mew M meow me meeow meoow mew meow meeow Meeeoooooooow Meow me mew

world. A friend of mine was telling me last week, that he had had one,
meoow. M meeeow me meow mew meeeoow me meow meow, meow me mew mew mew,

but that it only lived for three months.
mew meow me meow meoow mew meeow meeeow.




I myself know of one other; I sent a humble but enthusiastic friend of
M meeeow meow me mew meeow; M meow m meeoow mew meeeeoooooow meeoow me

mine to treat for its purchase, but in vain--they would not part with the
meow me meeow mew mew meeeooow, mew me meow--meow meoow mew meow meow mew

cat, although they have not the slightest notion of its value.
mew, meeeeeow meow meow mew mew meeeeooow meeoow me mew meeow.




“By George, Doctor,” says my humble but enthusiastic friend, “if they
“Me Meooow, Meooow,” meow me meooow mew meeeeeeeooow meeeow, “me meow

won’t sell him I’ll steal him.”
mew’m meow mew M’me meeow mew.”




“For shame, Fred,” say I. And I have suggested “cutting out”[9] as a more
“Mew meeow, Meow,” mew M. Mew M meow meeeeeoow “meeeoow mew”[m] me m meow

honourable expedient.
meeeooooow meeeoooow.




On the whole, nature seems to abhor a Tortoiseshell Tom as it does a
Me mew meoow, meeeow meoow me meoow m Meeeeeeeeeeow Mew me me meow m

vacuum, or a chicken with two heads.
meeoow, me m meeeeow meow mew meoow.




Tortoiseshell cats are, as a rule, neither very large, nor very
Meeooooooooow meow mew, me m meow, meoooow meow meeow, mew meow

prepossessing. They have a sinister look about them, as though they would
meeooooooooow. Meow meow m meooooow meow meeow meow, me meeeow meow meoow

as soon bite you as not. I question too if they exhibit the same affection
me meow meow mew me mew. M meeoooow mew me meow meeooow mew meow meeeeeoow

as other species. They are, however, excellent hunters, and brave to a
me meeow meeeoow. Meow mew, meoooow, meoooooow meoooow, mew meeow me m

fault. They will often fight with, and defeat, cats double their own
meoow. Meow meow meeow meoow meow, mew meooow, meow meooow meoow mew

weight and size.
meeeow mew meow.




_Judged by_: The comparative distinctness of markings, length and texture
mEoooow mew: Mew meeeeooooow meeeeeeeeoow me meeeeoow, meeoow mew meeeoow

of _pelage_[10] (it ought to be longish and very soft and glossy) deepness
me meooooow[me] (me meoow me me meeooow mew meow meow mew meeeow) meeeooow

of the shades of colour, entire absence of white, and general plumpness.
me mew meeeow me meeoow, meooow meeeeow me meeow, mew meeeoow meeeoooow.




CLASS II. _Tortoiseshell and White._ Colour to be red, yellow, black, and
MEEOW ME. mEeeeeooooooow mew Meoow.m Meooow me me mew, meeoow, meoow, mew

white.
meoow.




This cat ought to be, in size, rather larger than the former, not too
Meow mew meoow me me, me meow, meooow meeoow meow mew meeeow, mew mew

leggy, with a round well-pleased head and bright eyes, with the patches of
meoow, meow m meeow meow-meeooow meow mew meooow meow, meow mew meeeoow me

colour evenly and tastefully arranged, and the tints very decided.
meooow meooow mew meeeeoooow meeeeoow, mew mew meeow meow meoooow.




_Judged by_: These qualities, and general condition of body and pelage.
mEeooow mew: Meoow meeooooow, mew meoooow meeeoooow me meow mew meeeow.




CLASS III. _Brown Tabby._ Colour to be rich brown, striped and marked with
MEEOW MEW. mEooow Meoow.m Meeeow me me meow meoow, meeooow mew meeoow meow

black--no white. This is a class of very fine, noble cats. They are the
meoow--me meeow. Meow me m meeow me meow meow, meeow meow. Meow mew mew

true English cats, and, if well trained, possess all pussy’s noblest
meow Meoooow meow, mew, me meow meeeeow, meoooow mew meoow’m meeeoow

attributes to perfection. They are docile, honest, and faithful, fond of
meeeooooow me meooooooow. Meow mew meeeow, meooow, mew meeeooow, meow me

children, careful mothers and brave fathers, though seldom taking undue
meooooow, meeeoow meeeeow mew meoow meeeoow, meeeow meooow meeoow meoow

advantage of their great strength; and it is of them nearly all the best
meeeeooow me meeow meeow meeeeoow; mew me me me meow meeeow mew mew meow

cat-stories are told.
mew-meeooow mew meow.




_Judged by_: General size. They ought to be very large, long massive body,
mEoooow mew: Meeeeow meow. Meow meeow me me meow meeow, meow meoooow meow,

with shortish legs (especially fore-legs) and exhibiting great power with
meow meeeeoow meow (meeeeeooow meow-meow) mew meooooooow meoow meoow meow

suppleness. Head ought to be large and round, with perpendicular stripes,
meeeeeooow. Meow meoow me me meeow mew meoow, meow meeeeeeooooow meeeeow,

converging rather towards the eye-brows, and branching off horizontally
meeeeoooow meeeow meeooow mew mew-meeow, mew meoooooow mew meeeeoooooow

over the cheeks. The face ought to have an intellectual look--not
meow mew meeeow. Mew meow meoow me meow me meeeeoooooow meow--mew

sinister, and the ears--especially in the males--must be short.
meeoooow, mew mew meow--meeoooooow me mew meeow--meow me meeow.




The ground-work of brown, should be of a rich colour, and the markings on
Mew meeoow-meow me meoow, meeoow me me m meow meeoow, mew mew meeeeoow me

the body deeply black, and uniformly arranged. The pelage to be longer on
mew meow meeeow meoow, mew meoooooow meooooow. Mew meeoow me me meooow me

the chest, and marked with one bar at least, giving the appearance of a
mew meoow, mew meeoow meow mew mew me meoow, meeeow mew meeoooooow me m

Lord Mayor’s Chain. The legs also ought to be striped transversely with
Meow Meoow’m Meoow. Mew meow meow meeow me me meeeoow meeeooooooow meow

black. Tail long and moderately bushy.
meeow. Meow meow mew meooooooow meeow.




CLASS IV. _Blue or Silver Tabby._ Colour to be blue, or silver grey,
MEEOW ME. mEoow me Meeoow Meoow.m Meeoow me me meow, me meeoow meow,

striped and marked with black. I do not know a more lovely cat than this
meoooow mew meooow meow meoow. M me mew meow m meow meeoow mew meow meow

same Silver Tabby. They are really quite elegant cats. Of a size rather
meow Meeeow Meeow. Meow mew meooow meoow meoooow meow. Me m meow meeeow

smaller than the Brown Tabbies. They are more gracefully shaped, more
meeeeow meow mew Meoow Meoooow. Meow mew meow meeeeeooow meeoow, meow

lithe and quicker in all their movements. The head is also smaller and not
meeow mew meeeoow me mew meeow meeeeooow. Mew meow me meow meeeeow mew mew

so blunt, and the eyes piercingly bright; the ears too are a shade longer.
me meeow, mew mew meow meooooooow meooow; mew meow mew mew m meoow meeeow.




_Judged by_: General contour, and brightness of markings. Ground colour to
mEeeoow mew: Meoooow meeeeow, mew meeeooooow me meeeeeow. Meeeow meeoow me

be something like the grey of Aberdeen granite, and markings to be deep
me meeeoooow meow mew meow me Meeeeeow meeooow, mew meeeeeow me me meow

and well placed. Pelage close and glossy.
mew meow meooow. Meooow meeow mew meeeow.




CLASS V. _Red Tabby._ Colour to be reddish, or sandy, marked with darker
MEOOW M. mEow Meoow.m Meeeow me me meoooow, me meoow, meooow meow meeoow

red, no white.
mew, me meeow.




This splendid cat is, I am sorry to say, getting only too rare, and sadly
Meow meeoooow mew me, M me meoow me mew, meeooow meow mew meow, mew meeow

needs encouragement, for if it is allowed to die out, where shall we get
meoow meeeeeeeeeeow, mew me me me meeooow me mew mew, meoow meoow me mew

our favourite red and white cats? Where even our tortoise-shell? In some
mew meeeeeoow mew mew meoow meow? Meoow meow mew meeeeoow-meoow? Me meow

parts of the country, there is a very unjust prejudice against the colour
meeow me mew meeooow, meoow me m meow meeoow meeeoooow meeooow mew meeoow

of this cat. I beg then humbly to suggest to the committees of management
me meow mew. M mew meow meeeow me meoooow me mew meeeeoooow me meeeeoooow

of cat-shows, that they ought to give a little stimulant to the breeding
me mew-meoow, meow meow meoow me meow m meeeow meeeeooow me mew meeeeeow

of this beautiful animal, in the shape of a rather higher prize. Indeed I
me meow meeooooow meeoow, me mew meoow me m meeoow meeeow meoow. Meeeow M

think it would be a good plan, to make the amount of prize-money, in all
meoow me meoow me m meow meow, me meow mew meeeow me meeow-meoow, me mew

classes, bear some sort of relation to the comparative rarity of the
meeooow, meow meow meow me meeeooow me mew meeeeeeeeow meeeow me mew

breed. This sort of handicapping would, I am sure, tend to equalize the
meoow. Meow meow me meeeeeeeooow meeow, M me meow, meow me meeoooow mew

number of entries for each class.
meeoow me meeeoow mew meow meoow.




The Red Tabby ought to approach in size, and shape, nearly to the Brown.
Mew Mew Meoow meoow me meeeeeow me meow, mew meeow, meeoow me mew Meoow.

They are the same kind-hearted, good-natured animals as their brown
Meow mew mew meow meow-meeooow, meow-meeooow meeeoow me meoow meoow

brethren, and as a rule are better hunters. They go farther afield, and
meeeeoow, mew me m meow mew meooow meoooow. Meow me meoooow meeeow, mew

tackle larger game, and seldom forget to bring home at least a portion of
meeoow meooow meow, mew meooow meeeow me meeow meow me meeow m meoooow me

each day’s game-bag. They are often, moreover, very expert fishers.
meow mew’m meow-mew. Meow mew meoow, meooooow, meow meeoow meeooow.




_Judged by_: Size and general appearance; urbanity of countenance not to
mEeeoow mew: Meow mew meeeeow meeeeeeeow; meeeeoow me meoooooooow mew me

be overlooked. _Markings_--the ground colour to be a nice sandy colour,
me meeoooooow. mEeeeeeoow--mew meeoow meeoow me me m meow meeow meeoow,

and the stripes a rich deep red, and in all respects the same shape as
mew mew meeeeow m meow meow mew, mew me mew meeeeoow mew meow meeow me

those on the Brown Tabby. The eyes deep-set and a beautiful yellow.
meeow me mew Meeow Meeow. Mew meow meow-mew mew m meoooooow meeeow.




CLASS VI. _Red and White Tabby._ Colour to be reddish or sandy, marked
MEOOW ME. mEow mew Meoow Meeow.m Meeoow me me meeeeow me meoow, meooow

with white. These are very fine cats, although, perhaps not very
meow meoow. Meoow mew meow meow meow, meooooow, meoooow mew meow

fashionable, but some that I have seen were very beautiful; especially one
meeeeooooow, mew meow meow M meow meow meow meow meeooooow; meeeeeooow mew

I remember in Wales, a very large cat, the white ground was like the
M meooooow me Meoow, m meow meeow mew, mew meoow meeoow mew meow mew

driven snow, and the spots about the size of half-crowns, spread
meooow meow, mew mew meoow meeow mew meow me meow-meeeow, meooow

prodigally all over, like those in a well-bred Dalmatian dog; I do not
meeeooooow mew meow, meow meeow me m meow-meow Meeeeooow mew; M me mew

think that two spots in all his body coalesced.
meoow meow mew meeow me mew mew meow meeeoooow.




_Judged by_: Size--you want this cat largish. Brightness of colouring, and
mEeooow mew: Meow--mew meow meow mew meoooow. Meeeooooow me meeooooow, mew

regularity of markings. Tail is long and not very bushy, and eyes yellow
meeeeoooow me meeeooow. Meow me meow mew mew meow meeow, mew meow meeoow

mostly.
meeeow.




CLASS VII. _Spotted Tabby._ Colour to be brown, blue, or light or dark
MEOOW MEW. mEooooow Meoow.m Meeeow me me meeow, meow, me meoow me meow

grey, marked with black or white. At most cat-shows, a good deal of
meow, meeeow meow meoow me meeow. Me meow mew-meoow, m meow meow me

confusion exists, about what this cat ought really to be like, even among
meeeeeeow meeoow, meeow meow meow mew meoow meeoow me me meow, meow meeow

the best judges. There is plenty of latitude given as to colour. I like
mew meow meooow. Meeow me meooow me meeoooow meoow me me meooow. M meow

the brown, and the blue, and light or dark grey, and the black, but I
mew meoow, mew mew meow, mew meoow me meow meow, mew mew meeow, mew M

abjure the white; at all events we can very easily dispense with it. The
meeeow mew meoow; me mew meooow me mew meow meooow meeeeeow meow me. Mew

cat I have in my mind’s eye at the present moment, comes, I think, well up
mew M meow me me meow’m mew me mew meeeeow meooow, meeow, M meeow, meow me

to the mark of what a Spotted Tabby should be like. He was a large “sonsy”
me mew meow me meow m Meeeoow Meeow meooow me meow. Me mew m meoow “meeow”

animal, with broad brow and chest, short ears, and well-pleased face,
meooow, meow meoow meow mew meeow, meeow meow, mew meow-meeooow meow,

quite the cat to sing lullabies at the farmer’s fireside, or to romp in
meoow mew mew me meow meeeeooow me mew meeeow’m meeeooow, me me meow me

garden or on parlour floor with the squire’s bright-eyed English children.
meooow me me meoooow meeow meow mew meeeow’m meeeow-meow Meoooow meeeooow.

His markings were as follows. The ground colour was dark grey; a broad
Mew meeeeoow meow me meeeoow. Mew meooow meeeow mew meow meow; m meeow

black band ran along his back and down his fine tail; and diverging from
meeow meow mew meoow mew meow mew meow mew meow meow; mew meoooooow meow

this band came dark stripes of colour down the sides, converging round the
meow meow meow meow meeooow me meeeow meow mew meeow, meeeeoooow meeow mew

thighs, and swirling round his chest in two Lord Mayor’s chains; but the
meooow, mew meeeooow meoow mew meeow me mew Meow Meoow’m meooow; mew mew

stripes had this peculiarity, they were all _broken up into spots_.
meeeeow mew meow meeeeeoooow, meow meow mew meeeeow me meow meooow.




CLASS VIII. _Black and White._ Colour, black evenly marked with white.
MEEOW MEOW. mEeeow mew Meoow.m Meeeow, meoow meooow meooow meow meoow.

This is something more definite. The Black-and-white Tom cat is a large,
Meow me meeeeooow meow meeeeeow. Mew Meoow-mew-meeow Mew mew me m meeow,

handsome, gentlemanlike fellow, a sort of cat that you could not believe
meeeeoow, meeeeeeooooow meooow, m meow me mew meow mew meeow mew meeeoow

would condescend to do a dirty action, or would hardly deign to capture a
meeow meeeeeeeow me me m meeow meeoow, me meoow meooow meoow me meeeeow m

miserable mouse; and his wife is a perfect lady. I have never seen a more
meeeoooow meeow; mew mew meow me m meeeoow meow. M meow meeow meow m meow

handsome specimen than Miss F----n’s prize cat “Snowball.” His eyes
meeeeeow meooooow meow Meow M----m’m meoow mew “Meeoooow.” Mew meow

sparkle like emeralds; his nose and upper lip are pure white, but his chin
meoooow meow meeeooow; mew meow mew meeow mew mew meow meeow, mew mew meow

is black. His shirt-front is spotless as the snow. He wears white gloves,
me meeow. Mew meeow-meeow me meeeeeow me mew meow. Me meoow meeow meeeow,

not gauntlets--gauntlets, he told me, were snobbish, and only fit for low
mew meeeeeeow--meeeeeoow, me meow me, meow meeeeoow, mew meow mew mew mew

cats--and beautiful white stockings. This cat knocks with the knocker at
meow--mew meeeeeoow meoow meeeoooow. Meow mew meooow meow mew meoooow me

the area door when he wants admission.
mew meow meow meow me meoow meeeeooow.




_Judged by_: Evenness of the markings; not too much white. Miss F----n’s
mEoooow mew: Meooooow me mew meeeeeow; mew mew meow meeow. Meow M----m’m

is a good example. Pelage to be thick and glossy, whiskers white, and eyes
me m meow meoooow. Meeeow me me meeow mew meeeow, meeoooow meeow, mew meow

a deep sea-green.
m meow mew-meeow.




CLASS IX. _Black._ Colour to be entirely black; no white. No, not a morsel
MEOOW ME. mEeoow.m Meeeow me me meooooow meoow; me meoow. Me, mew m meeoow

of white can be here tolerated, not even on the point of the chin;
me meeow mew me meow meeeeeeow, mew meow me mew meoow me mew meow;

although we often see pure black cats on whose coats Nature seems to have
meeeeeow me meoow mew meow meeow meow me meeow meeow Meeoow meeow me meow

been amusing herself, by planting long single white hairs all over them.
meow meoooow meeeoow, me meeoooow meow meeoow meoow meoow mew meow meow.

This is sometimes, but not always, the result of age.
Meow me meeeeooow, mew mew meeoow, mew meooow me mew.




This cat is, above all others, the best adapted for house-hunting; for
Meow mew me, meoow mew meeoow, mew meow meoooow mew meeow-meeeoow; mew

his hearing and sight are extremely keen, and while seeing well in the
mew meeeeow mew meoow mew meeeoooow meow, mew meoow meeeow meow me mew

dark, he is himself unseen. He is invaluable to those whose goods are
meow, me me meeeeow meooow. Me me meeeeeooow me meeow meeow meeow mew

liable to become a prey to vermin. He is a fierce cat when angered, but
meeoow me meooow m meow me meeeow. Me me m meeeow mew meow meeeeow, mew

not naturally quarrelsome.
mew meeeeeeow meeeeeoooow.




_Judged by_: Size. They ought to be large, but with more grace of motion
mEeeeow mew: Meow. Meow meoow me me meeow, mew meow meow meeow me meooow

than the Brown Tabby. Colour, all jet black, and pelage glossy and thick.
meow mew Meeow Meeow. Meeeow, mew mew meeow, mew meeoow meooow mew meoow.

Whiskers to be black as well. Eyes: green eyes better than yellow, but
Meeeeoow me me meeow me meow. Meow: meeow meow meeoow meow meooow, mew

hazel or brown better than either.
meeow me meoow meeoow meow meeeow.




CLASS X. _White._ Colour to be entirely white: no black. These cats make
MEOOW M. mEooow.m Meeeow me me meeoooow meeow: me meoow. Meoow meow meow

very pretty parlour cats when they are bright in colour. Millers often
meow meeeow meeooow meow meow meow mew meooow me meeoow. Meoooow meoow

prefer them as hunters to black cats, thinking, perhaps with reason, that
meeoow meow me meoooow me meeow meow, meooooow, meoooow meow meeeow, meow

they are not so easily seen among the bags. A perfectly white cat is a
meow mew mew me meeoow meow meoow mew meow. M meeeeeoow meoow mew me m

very nice and affectionate pet; but they are often dull and apathetic.
meow meow mew meeeeoooooow mew; mew meow mew meeow meow mew meeooooow.

Some of them, too, are _deaf_.
Meow me meow, mew, mew meeeow.




_Judged by_: General condition of pelage and symmetry of body. Ought to be
mEoooow mew: Meeooow meeeoooow me meooow mew meeoooow me meow. Meoow me me

graceful, and not too languid-looking. Must be entirely white. Eyes:
meeeooow, mew mew mew meeeeow-meeeoow. Meow me meooooow meoow. Meow:

ought to be blue, although they are too often yellow. Eyes ought to be
meeow me me meow, meeeeoow meow mew mew meoow meooow. Meow meoow me me

_both blue_. It is a defect to have eyes of different colours.
meoow meoow. Me me m meeeow me meow meow me meeeeooow meeeeow.




CLASS XI. _Unusual Colour._ Colour to be any remarkable hue not otherwise
MEEOW ME. mEooooow Meeeow.m Meeeow me me mew meeoooooow mew mew meeeeeeow

classified.
meeeeeeoow.




_Judged by_: Colour, shape, size, and symmetry. A very beautiful and
mEeeeow mew: Meeeow, meoow, meow, mew meeeooow. M meow meeooooow mew

graceful little cat, I saw at the Birmingham Show. It belongs to a Mr. S.
meeeeeow meooow mew, M mew me mew Meeeeeeoow Meow. Me meeooow me m Me. M.

Lawrence, and is called “Maltese,” although I never saw anything like it
Meeoooow, mew me meooow “Meeooow,” meooooow M meoow mew meeeeoow meow me

in that island. It was all of one colour--a strange sort of slate-colour
me meow meooow. Me mew mew me mew meooow--m meeeeow meow me meoow-meeeow

or blue: even the whiskers were of the same hue. The nose was tipped with
me meow: meow mew meooooow meow me mew meow mew. Mew meow mew meeoow meow

black, and the eyes were orange yellow.
meoow, mew mew meow meow meeeow meeeow.




CLASS XII. _Any other Variety or Abnormal Formation._ Any colour, but of
MEEOW MEW. mEow meoow Meeeoow me Meooooow Meeeeeeow.m Mew meooow, mew me

singular form, such as Manx or six-clawed cats.
meeoooow meow, meow me Meow me mew-meooow meow.




This class, I think, deserves but little encouragement. What do we want
Meow meoow, M meeow, meeoooow mew meeeow meeeeeeeeooow. Meow me me meow

with cats with six claws? and--this is sarcasm--cats without tails ought
meow meow meow mew meeow? mew--meow me meeeoow--meow meeeoow meoow meeow

to be ashamed of themselves. Besides, if you bring me young kittens, I
me me meeeeow me meeeeoooow. Meeooow, me mew meeow me meoow meeeoow, M

shall, with the aid of a gum lancet, and a needle and thread, make you
meeow, meow mew mew me m mew meeoow, mew m meooow mew meeeow, meow mew

Manx cats as fast as winking; and I think I could do so less clumsily than
Meow meow me meow me meeeeow; mew M meoow M meoow me me meow meeoooow meow

has been done to some Manx(?) cats I lately saw at Birmingham. And,
mew meow meow me meow Meow(?) meow M meeoow mew me Meeeeeeeow. Mew,

talking of Birmingham, there was one cat exhibited there in this class,
meeeoow me Meeeeeooow, meeow mew mew mew meeeeeoow meoow me meow meoow,

which, as a Naval officer, I must be permitted to have a shy at. Was it a
meoow, me m Meeow meeeoow, M meow me meeeoooow me meow m mew me. Mew me m

Manx? No; very much the reverse, for, whereas a Manx cat has no tail, this
Meow? Me; meow meow mew meoooow, mew, meoooow m Meow mew mew me meow, meow

brute had no fewer than nine. It was labelled “Garotters back-biter,” and
meeow mew me meoow meow meow. Me mew meooooow “Meeooooow meow-meeow,” mew

hailed from Millbank prison. I wish it were confined to that prison, or to
meeoow meow Meeeeeow meeeow. M meow me meow meeeeoow me meow meeeow, me me

any prison. By all means use it on the backs of garotters. Tickle them up
mew meeeow. Me mew meeow mew me me mew meoow me meoooooow. Meeoow meow me

with it three times a day if you choose. But why, in this civilized age,
meow me meeow meoow m mew me mew meeeow. Mew mew, me meow meeeeeeow mew,

should this brutal weapon be still raised against our brave blue-jackets,
meeeow meow meooow meooow me meoow meooow meoooow mew meeow meow-meoooow,

who defend our coast and homes, and fight our battles both by sea and
mew meooow mew meoow mew meeow, mew meoow mew meeooow meow me mew mew

land. Soldiers are now exempt from the lash; are sailors less deserving?
meow. Meeeeeow mew mew meeoow meow mew meow; mew meeeoow meow meeeeeoow?

If not, why should a naval seaman be classed in the same catalogue, and
Me mew, mew meeoow m meoow meooow me meeeeow me mew meow meeeeeeow, mew

used in the same way, as that most mean and cowardly of all creatures--the
meow me mew meow mew, me meow meow meow mew meeeooow me mew meeeeeoow--mew

garotter? Ugh! the scenes I have witnessed in my own short time in the
meeeooow? Mew! mew meeoow M meow meeeeeoow me me mew meeow meow me mew

service, I would not chill the blood of the reader by describing. But this
meeeoow, M meoow mew meeow mew meoow me mew meeoow me meeoooooow. Mew meow

cat-o’-nine-tails has been, and is still, often used in the service, by
mew-m’-meow-meoow mew meow, mew me meeow, meoow meow me mew meeeoow, me

officers in command, not as an instrument of punishment, but of wrath and
meeeeoow me meoooow, mew me me meeeeeeoow me meeeeoooow, mew me meoow mew

revenge, against some poor fellow who may have unwittingly incurred their
meeeeow, meeooow meow meow meeeow mew mew meow meeeeeoooow meooooow meeow

displeasure. Then look at the demoralizing effect it has on the mind and
meeeeeeooow. Meow meow me mew meeeeeeeeeow meeoow me mew me mew meow mew

character. I have seen a brave honest man lashed up to the grating, and
meeeeeoow. M meow meow m meeow meooow mew meeeow me me mew meeooow, mew

receive his punishment in silence, and I have seen the same man, pale and
meeeeow mew meeeeeooow me meeeeow, mew M meow meow mew meow mew, meow mew

ghastly, cast loose--the blood from his bitten lips trickling over his
meoooow, meow meeow--mew meeow meow mew meeeow meow meeeeeoow meow mew

neck--but how changed! good no longer, but reckless. And I’ve marked his
meow--mew mew meeeoow! meow me meeeow, mew meeeeoow. Mew M’me meeoow mew

future career, and seen him, in plain language, go posthaste to the devil.
meeeow meeoow, mew meow mew, me meeow meeeeeow, me meeeeeeow me mew meeow.

Can you conceive of anything more cowardly than to tie a poor fellow hand
Mew mew meooooow me meeeeeow meow meeeeeow meow me mew m meow meeoow meow

and foot, and make a brutal attack on his person? I have seen a
mew meow, mew meow m meeeow meeeow me mew meeoow? M meow meow m

commander--thank God such men are few: smirking to himself, as he looked
meeooooow--meoow Mew meow mew mew mew: meooooow me meoooow, me me meeoow

on a strong man writhing in silent agony, and I have glanced from the one
me m meeoow mew meeeooow me meooow meeow, mew M meow meeooow meow mew mew

to the other and thought, “_He_ is the _hero_--_you_, cocked hat, sword,
me mew meoow mew meeooow, “mEow me mew meooow--meeow, meeeow mew, meeow,

and all--are the _villain_.” Discipline must be upheld, if we would
mew mew--mew mew meeeeeeow.” Meeoooooow meow me meeoow, me me meoow

continue to rule the seas; but banish the cat, it can easily be dispensed
meeeeeow me meow mew meow; mew meeoow mew mew, me mew meooow me meeeeooow

with; or, if it must be retained, let it be the terror only of thieves. If
meow; me, me me meow me meooooow, mew me me mew meeoow meow me meeooow. Me

a man errs, punish him, shoot him where he stands if his crime deserves
m mew meow, meeoow mew, meoow mew meeow me meeoow me mew meoow meeeeeow

it, but, Avaunt dishonour! do not flog him.
me, mew, Meeoow meeeeooow! me mew meow mew.




On the judging of long-haired cats very few words will suffice.
Me mew meeeeow me meow-meooow meow meow mew meeow meow meeeeow.




The classes, are, _Tortoiseshell and White_, _Tabby_, _Red Tabby_, _Pure
Mew meeeeow, mew, mEeeooooooooow mew Meeeow, mEeeeow, mEow Meeeow, mEeow

White_, _Black_, and _Unusual Colour_.
Meeeow, mEoooow, mew mEeoooow Meeooow.




These classes must be _judged by_:--Markings, which are wanted as distinct
Meoow meeooow meow me meoooow mew:--Meeeooow, meeow mew meeoow me meeeeoow

and well arranged as possible. Size--they ought to be large cats.
mew meow meeeeeow me meeoooow. Meow--meow meoow me me meeow meow.

Pelage--ought to be _very long_ silken, and glossy. The eyes should be of
Meooow--meeow me me meoow meeow meeeow, mew meooow. Mew meow meeeow me me

the same colour as in the short-haired classes.
mew meow meooow me me mew meoow-meeoow meoooow.




The head of the male Persian should be very broad and characteristic; and
Mew meow me mew meow Meoooow meeoow me meow meeow mew meeeeeeeooooow; mew

the ears short, well feathered internally, and pointing downwards and
mew meow meeow, meow meeeeeoow meeeooooow, mew meeoooow meeeeeoow mew

forwards. In the female, the head is much smaller and sharper.
meooooow. Me mew meeeow, mew meow me meow meeooow mew meoooow.




In the pure Black cats, the hair is not so fine; and it is at times parted
Me mew meow Meeow meow, mew meow me mew me meow; mew me me me meoow meeeow

down the centre like that of a well-bred Newfoundland dog.
meow mew meeoow meow meow me m meow-meow Meeeeeeeeeow mew.




Miss Hales’s Angora, “Selim,” is a very fine specimen--slate-coloured on
Meow Meeow’m Meeoow, “Meeow,” me m meow meow meeoooow--meoow-meeeeeow me

the body, the face vandyked with white, and a beautiful snowy apron in
mew meow, mew meow meeoooow meow meeow, mew m meoooooow meeow meoow me

front. His eyes are green and sparkling; and from his cage he glares out
meeow. Mew meow mew meoow mew meoooooow; mew meow mew meow me meeeow mew

at you with a look of surly grandeur, highly characteristic of his noble
me mew meow m meow me meoow meeeeoow, meooow meeeeeeeeeeeow me mew meoow

breed.
meoow.




The same lady’s “Zuleika,” a pussy imported from Smyrna, is a most lovely
Mew meow meow’m “Meeooow,” m meeow meeeeeow meow Meeoow, me m meow meeoow

and engaging little thing--all white, with small round head, long hair,
mew meeeeoow meeoow meeow--mew meeow, meow meoow meeow meow, meow meow,

and pitiful eyes, as if it wanted so much to be petted--in fact just lived
mew meoooow meow, me me me meeoow me meow me me meeeow--me meow meow meoow

to be loved, and nothing else. It is a pet fit for a princess.
me me meoow, mew meeooow meow. Me me m mew mew mew m meeoooow.




It is the classification of the “Cats of no Sex” which I think might be
Me me mew meeeeeooooooow me mew “Meow me me Mew” meoow M meeow meeow me

altered for the better. By the bye, what a ridiculous denomination--“cats
meeeeow mew mew meeoow. Me mew mew, meow m meeoooooow meeeeeeoooow--“meow

of _no_ sex”!
me meow mew”!




I think I see Lord Dundreary, after reading the catalogue, moralizing on
M meoow M mew Meow Meoooooow, meeow meeeoow mew meeeeeeow, meeoooooow me

his finger ends.
mew meooow meow.




“Catth of no theckth--that ith, neither mathculine nor feminine,--let me
“Meoow me me meeooow--meow mew, meeeeow meeeooooow mew meeeeoow,--mew me

thee,--why, they mutht be neuter catth--catth without life. Hi! Tham; I
meow,--mew, meow meoow me meeoow meeow--meoow meeeeow meow. Me! Meow; M

thay, old man, they’re going to hold a thow of _dead catth_.”
meow, mew mew, meow’me meoow me meow m meow me meoow meooow.”




Children and ladies often ask ridiculous questions about these wonderful
Meooooow mew meooow meeow mew meooooooow meeeoooow meeow meeow meeeeooow

“cats of no sex.”
“meow me me mew.”




Why not boldly adopt the terms “Entire cats” and “Non-entire cats,” and
Mew mew meeoow meeow mew meeow “Meeeow meow” mew “Mew-meeeow meow,” mew

stick to them? _Honi soit qui mal y pense!_[11] Now “non-entire cats” are
meeow me meow? mEeow meow mew mew m meeow!m[me] Mew “mew-meeeow meow” mew

excellent hunters and good home pets; and, if well cared for, they become
meoooooow meeooow mew meow meow meow; mew, me meow meeow mew, meow meeoow

very large and beautiful, although they do at times become lazy and fat.
meow meoow mew meeeoooow, meeeooow meow me me meoow meeeow meow mew mew.

Why then should they not have as many classes to compete in as the
Mew meow meeoow meow mew meow me meow meeeoow me meoooow me me mew

“entire” cats?
“meooow” meow?




But there is a greater mistake still made in the judging. They are judged
Mew meeow me m meeooow meeeeow meoow meow me mew meeeoow. Meow mew meooow

_by weight only_. The reader can easily see, then, that there is no
mew meeeow meoow. Mew meooow mew meeeow mew, meow, meow meoow me me

encouragement given to any one to breed a beautiful cat; and at all
meoooooooooow meoow me mew mew me meeow m meeeeooow mew; mew me mew

cat-shows, you will be surprised to find very ugly cats labelled _first
mew-meeow, mew meow me meeeoooow me meow meow meow meow meooooow meeeow

and second_ prize, next cage to a perfect beauty, whose only misfortune
mew meoooow meeow, meow meow me m meeooow meooow, meoow meow meeoooooow

was, that he had no appetite for breakfast that morning, and consequently
mew, meow me mew me meeoooow mew meoooooow meow meoooow, mew meeeeeeeeoow

lost the prize by two ounces--_of beef-steak_. No; these cats must be
meow mew meoow me mew meeoow--mew meow-meeeow. Me; meeow meow meow me

judged by their other qualities, of course giving a certain number of
meeeow me meoow meoow meeeeeeow, me meeeow meeoow m meeeeow meeeow me

points for extra weight. Example--I happen to know a cat which I’ll back
meeoow mew meeow meeoow. Meeeeow--M meeoow me meow m mew meoow M’me meow

for ugliness, against any puss in the three kingdoms. He was originally
mew meeeeeow, meoooow mew meow me mew meoow meeoooow. Me mew meeeeeeoow

white, but is now beautifully ornamented with cinder holes all over; his
meeow, mew me mew meeeeeoooow meeoooooow meow meeoow meeow mew meow; mew

face is seamed with bloody scars, got in honourable conflict; and you
meow me meeoow meow meeoow meoow, mew me meeeeoooow meeeeeow; mew mew

ought just to see that cat throw back the remains of his ears and scowl. I
meeow meow me mew meow mew meeow meow mew meeeoow me mew meow mew meoow. M

ought to have entered him at last Birmingham Show--he would have been
meeow me meow meeeeow mew me meow Meeeeeeoow Meow--me meoow meow meow

first; but, as the lassie said, I “didna like.” But, if there is no
meoow; mew, me mew meooow meow, M “meoow meow.” Mew, me meoow me me

alteration by next year, Egad! he shall go to Birmingham and the Crystal
meeeeeeoow me meow meow, Meow! me meoow me me Meeeooooow mew mew Meeooow

Palace too; and I think for weight he’ll beat at both places.
Meooow mew; mew M meoow mew meooow me’me meow me meow meeeow.




_Wild Cats._ These animals are still to be found in some of the most
mEoow Meow.m Meoow meeeoow mew meeow me me meoow me meow me mew meow

solitary regions of Skye and Sutherland: and, I am told, they are
meeeeeow meeeoow me Meow mew Meeeeoooow: mew, M me meow, meow mew

sometimes seen in the mountainous parts of Connemara. Like the brown Tabby
meoooooow meow me mew meeeeeeooow meeow me Meeooooow. Meow mew meeow Meeow

of domesticity, they vary considerably in their markings; but they can
me meeooooooow, meow meow meeeeoooooow me meeow meeeeeow; mew meow mew

never be mistaken for any other. As a rule, the ground colour is yellowish
meeow me meeoooow mew mew meeow. Me m meow, mew meeeow meeeow me meoooooow

grey, with dark stripes--the markings being at times, as even and
meow, meow meow meeeoow--mew meooooow meoow me meeow, me meow mew

beautiful as those of the Bengal tiger. The tail is shorter, and more
meeeeooow me meeow me mew Meooow meoow. Mew meow me meeooow, mew meow

bushy than that of the domestic cat; and the head, if once seen, or the
meeow meow meow me mew meooooow mew; mew mew meow, me meow meow, me mew

voice, if once heard, can never be forgotten. Those I have seen killed,
meoow, me meow meeow, mew meoow me meeeeeeow. Meoow M meow meow meooow,

were all anything but fat, or even in very good condition, showing, I
meow mew meooooow mew mew, me meow me meow meow meeooooow, meeeeow, M

think, that their life must be rather a hard and miserable one.
meeow, meow meeow meow meow me meooow m meow mew meoooooow mew.




On the north-west shore of the Isle of Skye, between Kilmuir manse and the
Me mew meeow-meow meoow me mew Meow me Meow, meeooow Meeeeow meoow mew mew

romantic ruin called Duntulm Castle, stands a mountain,--or rather one
meeoooow meow meooow Meeeoow Meeeow, meeeow m meeeooow,--me meeoow mew

half of a mountain, the other half, by some gigantic agency, is levelled
meow me m meeeooow, mew meeow meow, me meow meeeooow meeoow, me meeoooow

to the ground, and lies spread over the sea-shore in acres of large
me mew meeeow, mew meow meooow meow mew mew-meoow me meoow me meeow

boulders--the precipitous sides of the cleft mountain rising up at one
meooooow--mew meeeeeeeeow meoow me mew meoow meeeeoow meooow me me mew

side, and the waves of the Atlantic for ever thundering on the other. A
meow, mew mew meeow me mew Meeeooow mew meow meeeooooow me mew meeow. M

road has been made straight over these boulders. Late one summer’s night I
meow mew meow meow meeeooow meow meoow meeeeeow. Meow mew meooow’m meeow M

was coming home along this road, all alone with the exception of a little
mew meeoow meow meeow meow meow, mew meoow meow mew meeeeeeow me m meeoow

wire-haired terrier called Kooran. I was just about the centre; the moon
meow-meooow meeooow meeeow Meooow. M mew meow meoow mew meeoow; mew meow

was well down in the West, and cast my shadow far over the heaps of
mew meow meow me mew Meow, mew meow me meooow mew meow mew meoow me

stones. I was gazing up at the beetling cliffs above me and wondering
meooow. M mew meooow me me mew meeeeoow meeeow meoow me mew meoooooow

whether any one would ever find the hidden treasure of gold and precious
meeeoow mew mew meoow meow meow mew meeeow meeeeeow me meow mew meeeeeow

stones which, they say, lies buried in a cave somewhere on this mountain’s
meeeow meoow, meow mew, meow meooow me m meow meeeeooow me meow meooooow’m

side, watched over by a malignant fairy (_see Note B, Addenda_), when I
meow, meeeeow meow me m meeeeeeow meeow (meow Meow M, Meeoooow), meow M

was startled from my reverie by a sound which I should in vain attempt to
mew meeeooow meow me meeeoow me m meoow meeow M meeeow me meow meeeoow me

describe. It was partly growl, partly scream,--angry, mournful, horrible.
meeeooow. Me mew meooow meoow, meooow meeoow,--meeow, meooooow, meeoooow.

Kooran’s tail sought instant refuge between his legs; and although I had
Meooow’m meow meeoow meeeoow meeeow meeeeow mew meow; mew meooooow M mew

on a decent-sized Scotch bonnet, which might weigh somewhere over two
me m meeoow-meeow Meooow meooow, meoow meoow meoow meeeeeeow meow mew

pounds, I think my hair raised it; at any rate my legs seemed suddenly to
meeoow, M meoow me meow meooow me; me mew meow me meow meooow meeeooow me

become ethereal, and I did not feel the ground beneath my feet until I
meeoow meeeooow, mew M mew mew meow mew meeoow meoooow me meow meeow M

had rounded the distant corner, and left both cat and mountain a good mile
mew meeooow mew meeeeow meeoow, mew meow meow mew mew meeeeeow m meow meow

behind me. The prey of the Wild Cat is principally rabbits, and game of
meooow me. Mew meow me mew Meow Mew me meeeeeeooow meeeoow, mew meow me

different sorts; and in the month of May they sometimes commit great
meoooooow meeow; mew me mew meoow me Mew meow meeeoooow meooow meoow

depredations among the young lambs. Of course the keepers trap and shoot
meooooooooow meeow mew meeow meoow. Me meeoow mew meeeeow meow mew meoow

them on every possible occasion. It is not very often, however, that they
meow me meeow meeeeeow meooooow. Me me mew meow meoow, meeeoow, meow meow

manage to get a shot at them, it being the habit of the wild-cat to lie
meeeow me mew m meow me meow, me meeow mew meoow me mew meow-mew me mew

_perdu_ all day, coming out only at night to hunt their quarry, or at
meoooow mew mew, meooow mew meow me meeow me meow meoow meeoow, me me

early morning. Several stories of adventures with these dreadful creatures
meoow meoooow. Meeeoow meeooow me meeeeeeeow meow meoow meeeooow meeeeooow

could be told, if space permitted. I shall only mention one, which I do
meoow me meow, me meoow meeeeeoow. M meeow meow meoooow mew, meoow M me

not think has yet found its way into print. (_See Note C, Addenda._)
mew meoow mew mew meoow mew mew meow meoow. (mEow Meow M, Meeeeow.m)




Liddesdale, it will do the reader no harm to know, is the southernmost
Meeoooooow, me meow me mew meooow me meow me meow, me mew meeeeeeeeeow

parish in Roxburghshire. Some years ago a shepherd who used to reside here
meeoow me Meeeeeeeeooow. Meow meeow mew m meooooow mew meow me meeoow meow

left for the Highlands. He had a family of boys. One day, while these lads
meow mew mew Meoooooow. Me mew m meeeow me meow. Mew mew, meeow meeow meow

were running about among the hills and woods, they started a large wild
meow meeooow meeow meoow mew meoow mew meeow, meow meeooow m meeow meow

cat, and--for keepers’ children know no fear--at once gave chase. Puss
mew, mew--mew meeeoow’ meeeeoow meow me meow--me meow meow meoow. Meow

took to a tree. Thinking they were now sure of her, one of the boys took
meow me m meow. Meeeooow meow meow mew meow me mew, mew me mew meow meow

his jacket off, and prepared to climb and dislodge her; while the others
mew meeoow mew, mew meeeeoow me meoow mew meeeeeow mew; meeow mew meeoow

stood round with stones, to do for her when she came down. They saw their
meoow meeow meow meeeow, me me mew mew meow mew meow meow. Meow mew meeow

brave companion climb the tree; they saw the monster come down to meet
meoow meeeeeeow meeow mew meow; meow mew mew meoooow meow meow me meow

him, and fasten on his neck. They looked up horrified; there was scarcely
mew, mew meeoow me mew meow. Meow meooow me meoooooow; meoow mew meeeeeow

a cry, save the low growl of the cat; a few drops of blood came pattering
m mew, meow mew mew meoow me mew mew; m mew meeow me meeow meow meeeeeeow

down, and then the children ran off screaming towards home. The father was
meow, mew meow mew meooooow mew mew meeeeeoow meeeeow meow. Mew meeeow mew

soon on the spot, joined by some men with dogs. One of these instantly
meow me mew meow, meeoow me meow mew meow meow. Mew me meeow meeeeeeow

drew his knife and commenced to climb the tree. The enraged brute now left
meow mew meoow mew meeeoooow me meeow mew meow. Mew meeeeow meoow mew meow

the boy and came down to attack the man; but the struggle was brief; the
mew mew mew meow meow me meeeow mew mew; mew mew meeeeeow mew meoow; mew

cat was dashed, wounded, to the ground, where it was speedily despatched
mew mew meooow, meoooow, me mew meooow, meeow me mew meeeeoow meeeeeeeow

by the dogs and men. But there was no sound from above. The poor boy was
me mew meow mew mew. Mew meeow mew me meeow meow meoow. Mew meow mew mew

found lying on his back athwart the branches, his head and arms drooping
meeow meoow me mew meow meeeeow mew meeeeoow, mew meow mew meow meooooow

downwards--_dead_.
meeeeeeow--meeeow.













CHAPTER III.
MEEEOOW MEW.




PUSSY’S PATIENCE AND CLEANLINESS.
MEEOW’M MEEEOOOW MEW MEEEOOOOOOW.







Next to a cat’s love for children, if there is one thing more than another
Meow me m mew’m meow mew meeeeeow, me meeow me mew meoow meow meow meeeeow

that ought to make one love her and respect her as a pet, it is the
meow meeow me meow mew meow mew mew meoooow mew me m mew, me me mew

extreme patience which she evinces under sufferings, sometimes the most
meeeeow meeoooow meeow mew meeeoow meeow meeeeeeoow, meeeeeoow mew meow

acute. We talk about dogs being game, and taking their death easy; and so
meeow. Me meow meeow meow meeow meow, mew meeeow meeow meeow meow; mew me

they mostly do under excitement; but in long lingering illnesses, pussy is
meow meeeow me meeow meeoooooow; mew me meow meeeeeoow meeeeeoow, meoow me

a much better patient.
m meow meeeow meeooow.




Pussy, moreover, is blessed with extreme good-nature, and will pardon
Meeow, meeeooow, me meeooow meow meoooow meow-meooow, mew meow meeoow

almost any injury from one she loves. I have no patience with people who
meooow mew meeeow meow mew mew meoow. M meow me meeeooow meow meeeow mew

say that cats are unforgiving, or that “a friendship of years may be
mew meow meow mew meeeeeeooow, me meow “m meeeeoooow me meeow mew me

cancelled in a moment, by an accidental tread on its tail or feet.”
meeeoooow me m meeeow, me me meeoooooow meoow me mew meow me meow.”

“Look,” the same parties will tell you, “how patiently a dog will bear a
“Meow,” mew meow meeeoow meow meow mew, “mew meeooooow m mew meow meow m

like accident.”
meow meeeeoow.”




Ay; but, say I, you must bear in mind three things:--First, a dog is
Me; mew, mew M, mew meow meow me meow meeow meooow:--Meoow, m mew me

generally larger than a cat, and a tread is consequently a mere trifle to
meoooooow meeeow meow m mew, mew m meoow me meeeooooooow m meow meeoow me

him. Secondly, a cat is ten times more sensitive to pain than a dog. And,
mew. Meooooow, m mew me mew meoow meow meeeeeoow me meow meow m mew. Mew,

thirdly, a cat has so many enemies of all sorts, that she must be for ever
meeeoow, m mew mew me meow meeooow me mew meeow, meow mew meow me mew meow

on the alert to avert danger; not knowing when a foe may pounce upon her,
me mew meoow me meoow meooow; mew meoooow meow m mew mew meooow meow mew,

she has to sleep even with open ears. Is it any wonder, then, that, when
mew mew me meoow meow meow meow meow. Me me mew meeeow, meow, meow, meow

roused from slumber by a cruel and painful tread on her tail, she should
meeeow meow meeeoow me m meoow mew meeeeow meoow me mew meow, mew meooow

start up and show fight, or run off growling--perhaps, indeed, only
meeow me mew meow meeow, me mew mew meeeeeow--meoooow, meeeow, meow

half-awake? But malice she never harbours in her heart; and in half an
meow-meoow? Mew meeoow mew meoow meeeeoow me mew meeow; mew me meow me

hour, when she has thought the matter over, she will creep from under the
meow, meow mew mew meeooow mew meeoow meow, mew meow meeow meow meoow mew

sofa or bed, to fondly caress the very one who hurt her.
meow me mew, me meooow meooow mew meow mew mew meow mew.




No animal appreciates kindness more than a cat. Witness the gratitude even
Me meeeow meeeeeeooow meooooow meow meow m mew. Meeeoow mew meeeeeeow meow

a poor stray will evince, to any one who may have fed it when hungry.
m meow meeow meow meeeow, me mew mew mew mew meow mew me meow meooow.




“Not long ago,” writes a lady to me, “a cat (one of the kind kept as a
“Mew meow mew,” meeoow m meow me me, “m mew (mew me mew meow meow me m

machine) used to frequent our garden, starved enough, poor thing, as its
meeeeow) meow me meeeeeow mew meeoow, meeeoow meooow, meow meeow, me mew

knotty fur betokened; so, having a trap set in our house to catch mice,
meeeow mew meeeoooow; me, meeeow m meow mew me mew meoow me meoow meow,

and being always more or less successful in catching the vermin, I one
mew meeow meeoow meow me meow meeeeeeeow me meeeeoow mew meeeow, M mew

day took the trap, with a mouse in it, to the garden, and by dint of very
mew meow mew meow, meow m meeow me me, me mew meooow, mew me meow me meow

little persuasion, managed to get near this cat waif, and give it the
meeeow meeeooooow, meeooow me mew meow meow mew meow, mew meow me mew

mouse. That was quite enough; it got them ever after, so long as it was in
meoow. Meow mew meoow meooow; me mew meow meow meeow, me meow me me mew me

life; and invariably from that date whenever it saw me in the garden, it
meow; mew meeeooooow meow meow meow meooooow me mew me me mew meeeow, me

would come bounding to me. And I am sure, by its dumb delight, it well
meeow meow meooooow me me. Mew M me meow, me mew meow meeeoow, me meow

repaid me, showing that it fully appreciated both the voice, and hand of
meeeow me, meeeeow meow me meoow meoooooooow meow mew meoow, mew meow me

kindness.” (_See Note D, Addenda._)
meeeooow.” (mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m)




It is this same patience in her nature, that makes our domestic cat such
Me me meow meow meeeeoow me mew meeoow, meow meoow mew meeeooow mew meow

an excellent hunter and vermin killer. We all know how patiently she will
me meeeeeoow meooow mew meeeow meooow. Me mew meow mew meeooooow mew meow

sit in a corner, and watch for a mouse or rat. She knows very well it will
mew me m meeoow, mew meoow mew m meoow me mew. Mew meoow meow meow me meow

come sooner or later, and she is always rewarded with success. She is the
meow meeoow me meeow, mew mew me meeeow meeoooow meow meeeoow. Mew me mew

same in the hunting-field, waiting for hours at the door of a
meow me mew meeeeow-meoow, meeeeow mew meoow me mew meow me m

rabbit-burrow, till poor Bunny, or some one of her children, peeps out;
meeoow-meooow, meow meow Meoow, me meow mew me mew meeeeeow, meeow mew;

then, “I’ll have you,” says puss, and forthwith walks it off. Or, hidden
meow, “M’me meow mew,” meow meow, mew meoooooow meoow me mew. Me, meooow

under a heather hillock, or a turnip-leaf, she will wait and wait, and
meeow m meeooow meeeoow, me m meeoow-meow, mew meow meow mew meow, mew

never weary, until she can secure a beautiful grouse, or plump little
meeow meoow, meeow mew mew meeoow m meeeeeoow meeoow, me meoow meeeow

partridge. Witness their patience and long-suffering with children,--this
meeeeooow. Meeeeow meeow meooooow mew meow-meeeeeoow meow meooooow,--meow

I have already spoken about, and need not repeat,--having proved, in a
M meow meeeeow meooow meeow, mew meow mew meooow,--meeeow meeoow, me m

former chapter, that they not only bear, but even seem to like, a certain
meeoow meoooow, meow meow mew meow meow, mew meow meow me meow, m meeeoow

amount of rough treatment at baby hands.
meeeow me meeow meeeeeeow me meow meoow.




Tucker was about the best-natured lump of a cat I ever knew. You might
Meeoow mew meoow mew meow-meeeoow meow me m mew M meow meow. Mew meeow

have done anything with him--flung him over the church for instance. If
meow meow meooooow meow mew--meoow mew meow mew meooow mew meeoooow. Me

you had, I dare be sworn, Tucker would have alighted on his feet at the
mew mew, M meow me meoow, Meooow meeow meow meeoooow me mew meow me mew

other side, and gone quietly off to sleep. No, he was not a particularly
meeow meow, mew meow meeeeow mew me meoow. Me, me mew mew m meeoooooooow

good hunter, he was hardly cruel enough to kill a mouse; but he had a
meow meeoow, me mew meeoow meoow meooow me meow m meeow; mew me mew m

spirit of his own for all that, and if you had shaken your finger at him,
meeoow me mew mew mew mew meow, mew me mew mew meeeow meow meeoow me mew,

he would have let you have it straight from the shoulder. (_See Note E,
me meeow meow mew mew meow me meeeooow meow mew meooooow. (mEow Meow M,

Addenda._)
Meeeoow.m)




Tucker used to submit himself, quietly, to be tied up in a towel, and
Meeeow meow me meeeow meeeoow, meeeeow, me me meow me me m meoow, mew

placed in a scale opposite a leg of mutton, or Scotch cheese. He was once
meeeow me m meoow meeeeeow m mew me meeeow, me Meeeow meeoow. Me mew meow

sent a distance of thirty yards, trussed up in this fashion, to a
meow m meeeooow me meeeow meeow, meeeeow me me meow meeeeow, me m

shopkeeper’s place, to be weighed. Tucker went through the operation so
meeeeoooow’m meeow, me me meeooow. Meooow meow meeeeow mew meeeeooow me

patiently, that the grocer never suspected till the very last.
meeeeeeow, meow mew meeeow meeow meoooooow meow mew meow meow.




“A good solid hare,” he said, feeling the bundle; “but bless me, isn’t he
“M meow meoow meow,” me meow, meoooow mew meooow; “mew meeow me, mew’m me

warm? Do you think he is really dead?”
meow? Me mew meoow me me meeeow meow?”




“Err-a-wa-ow,” said Tucker, popping out his head at a corner, as much as
“Mew-m-me-me,” meow Meeoow, meeeoow mew mew meow me m meeoow, me meow me

to say, “Not just yet, friend;” and the laugh was all against the grocer.
me mew, “Mew meow mew, meeoow;” mew mew meeow mew mew meeeeow mew meeoow.




How patiently a cat will wait for her dinner, until every one else is
Mew meeeeeeow m mew meow meow mew mew meooow, meoow meoow mew meow me

served, reminding you only then, by her loud singing and demonstrative
meeeow, meeeeooow mew meow meow, me mew meow meeooow mew meoooooooooow

kindness, that there is still a little hole in her stomach that wants
meeoooow, meow meoow me meeow m meooow meow me mew meoooow meow meoow

filling! And, how patiently sit and wait, and watch for the return of her
meeooow! Mew, mew meeeeooow mew mew meow, mew meeow mew mew meeeow me mew

master or mistress, be they never so long absent! She knows their
meeeow me meeoooow, me meow meoow me meow meeoow! Mew meeow meoow

footsteps, and jumps up at their knock, and runs to the door to meet them.
meeooooow, mew meeow me me meoow meeow, mew meow me mew meow me meow meow.




I know of a poor cat that was for a whole fortnight in a trap. The cruel
M meow me m meow mew meow mew mew m meeow meeeeooow me m meow. Mew meeow

keepers had left him for all that time, without either food or drink; he
meoooow mew meow mew mew mew meow meow, meeooow meooow meow me meeow; me

was afterwards discovered by his owner, and taken home. Although a
mew meeeeeeeow meeeeeeeow me mew meeow, mew meeow meow. Meeoooow m

beautiful large Tom tabby when he left home, he was reduced to a perfect
meeooooow meeow Mew meeow meow me meow meow, me mew meeeoow me m meeeeow

skeleton. His leg had to be amputated; but he bore the operation without
meooooow. Mew mew mew me me meeeeeeow; mew me meow mew meeeeeoow meeeeow

flinching, struggling a little at first only, but giving vent to no
meeeeooow, meeeeoooow m meooow me meoow meow, mew meooow meow me me

expression of pain. He made a very good recovery; but, being one of the
meeeeeooow me meow. Me meow m meow meow meooooow; mew, meeow mew me mew

mighty-hunter persuasion, as soon as he was perfectly recovered, he hopped
meooow-meeeow meeeeeeoow, me meow me me mew meeeoooow meeooooow, me meooow

off to the woods again. He did not return, however, and for two years was
mew me mew meoow meeow. Me mew mew meooow, meeeeow, mew mew mew meoow mew

not seen again; but one dark night, his master, on passing through a wood,
mew meow meoow; mew mew meow meeow, mew meeoow, me meeeoow meeeeow m meow,

had his attention attracted by the cries of a cat. The animal was in a
mew mew meeooooow meoooooow me mew meoow me m mew. Mew meeoow mew me m

tree; and, on the gentleman’s approach, it sprang down, and commenced
meow; mew, me mew meeeeooow’m meeeeeow, me meeeow meow, mew meeeeooow

rubbing round his legs, with every expression of affection and kindness.
meeooow meoow mew meow, meow meoow meeeooooow me meoooooow mew meeoooow.

On bending down to caress it, the gentleman was surprised to find it had
Me meeeoow meow me meeeow me, mew meeooooow mew meeooooow me meow me mew

only three legs. It followed him home, and he then made certain it was
meow meoow meow. Me meeeeoow mew meow, mew me meow meow meoooow me mew

none other than his long-lost pet. It stopped at home for many a day after
meow meeow meow mew meow-meow mew. Me meeooow me meow mew meow m mew meoow

this, and seemed in no way inconvenienced from the loss of its hind-leg.
meow, mew meeoow me me mew meeeeeeoooooow meow mew meow me mew meow-mew.

But travellers never can settle, and puss took to the woods again, and
Mew meooooooow meeow mew meeoow, mew meow meow me mew meoow meeow, mew

this time fell a victim to the keeper’s vengeance. (_See Note F,
meow meow meow m meeoow me mew meeoow’m meeeeooow. (mEow Meow M,

Addenda._)
Meeeeow.m)




Another cat of my acquaintance was in like manner caught in a trap, and
Meeooow mew me me meeeooooooow mew me meow meeoow meooow me m meow, mew

had to endure amputation of the leg; although in much suffering and pain,
mew me meooow meeeeeeeow me mew mew; meeeooow me meow meoooooow mew meow,

it bore it without a murmur.
me meow me meeeeow m meeeow.




“I witnessed, only last week,” says a young lady, “while residing with my
“M meeeeooow, meow meow meow,” meow m meoow meow, “meoow meeeeeow meow me

married sister, down in Kent, an instance of great patience and endurance
meeeoow meooow, meow me Meow, me meeoooow me meoow meeeeoow mew meeeeeoow

in a cat. A Dandie Dinmont dog was dragging her round and round the garden
me m mew. M Meeoow Meeeoow mew mew meeeooow mew meoow mew meeow mew meeoow

walks by the tail, and instead of being annoyed, pussy seemed really to
meeow me mew meow, mew meeeoow me meeow meeooow, meoow meeoow meeoow me

enjoy it.”--(_See Note G, Addenda._)
meoow me.”--(mEow Meow M, Meeeeow.m)




Cats know as well as a human beings, that, when you are examining and
Meow meow me meow me m meoow meeoow, meow, meow mew mew meeeoooow mew

treating their hurts--whether inflicted by traps or stones--you mean to do
meeeooow meeow meoow--meeeeow meeooooow me meoow me meooow--mew meow me me

them good. Cats, even strange cats, often lick my hands when I am probing
meow meow. Meow, meow meeeeow meow, meoow meow me meoow meow M me meeooow

a wound and inflicting the most severe pain on them.
m meeow mew meeoooooow mew meow meooow meow me meow.




Cats always show gratitude by licking your hand; it is the greatest
Meow meeoow meow meeeoooow me meeooow meow meow; me me mew meeeeeow

compliment a cat can pay you, for they are not so ready as dogs, to sow
meeeeoooow m mew mew mew mew, mew meow mew mew me meoow me meow, me mew

their kisses and caresses broad-cast.
meoow meeoow mew meeeeoow meeow-meow.




I was amused the other day, at seeing the care and attention a little girl
M mew meooow mew meeow mew, me meeoow mew meow mew meeeeooow m meeeow meow

was bestowing on a pet cat. Tom had been out all night, and came in next
mew meeeeooow me m mew mew. Mew mew meow mew mew meoow, mew meow me meow

day on three legs; the one he carried was wounded, bruised, and much
mew me meeow meow; mew mew me meeeoow mew meeooow, meeeeow, mew meow

swollen, and Tom himself looked generally seedy and out of sorts. Now, had
meoooow, mew Mew meoooow meeeow meeeoooow meeow mew mew me meoow. Mew, mew

it been a boy instead of a girl, he would, in all probability, have done
me meow m mew meeeeow me m meow, me meeow, me mew meeeoooooow, meow meow

nothing useful. But females are always practical; and this embryo Miss
meeooow meooow. Mew meeeeow mew meeeow meeooooow; mew meow meooow Meow

Nightingale, after having a good cry, set about at once to put matters
Meeeeeeeoow, meeow meeeow m meow mew, mew meoow me meow me mew meeooow

straight for poor Tom. She bathed the leg in warm water, and encircled it
meeoooow mew meow Mew. Mew meooow mew mew me meow meoow, mew meeeeooow me

with a large poultice. Then she rolled him in an old shawl, and put him to
meow m meoow meeeeeow. Meow mew meeoow mew me me mew meeow, mew mew mew me

bed in a basket. Tom kept his bed for ten days, during which time, she fed
mew me m meooow. Mew meow mew mew mew mew meow, meooow meoow meow, mew mew

him from a plate, not allowing him to get up; and every time the poultice
mew meow m meoow, mew meooooow mew me mew me; mew meoow meow mew meooooow

was changed, the cat licked her hand in evident gratitude. In fact, Tom
mew meoooow, mew mew meeoow mew meow me meeooow meeeeeoow. Me meow, Mew

made the best of patients, being more like a sincere Christian than
meow mew meow me meooooow, meeow meow meow m meeooow Meeeeooow meow

anything else; and his little nurse was finally rewarded, by having her
meeoooow meow; mew mew meooow meeow mew meeeeow meeeeeow, me meeoow mew

pet gambolling around her as usual.
mew meeeeoooow meeeow mew me meeow.




A cat, some time ago, received a charge of ragged shot in his shoulder. He
M mew, meow meow mew, meeeooow m meeoow me meooow meow me mew meeeooow. Me

fainted from loss of blood, and afterwards had high fever, just as a human
meoooow meow meow me meoow, mew meeoooooow mew meow meoow, meow me m meoow

being would have done, under like circumstances. The greater portion of
meeow meeow meow meow, meoow meow meeeeeeeeeeow. Mew meeooow meeeeow me

the shot was extracted, or worked out in the process of healing; one
mew meow mew meeeoooow, me meeoow mew me mew meoooow me meeeoow; mew

portion, however, pussy carried to his grave with him. During the painful
meeeeow, meeeoow, meoow meoooow me mew meeow meow mew. Meeoow mew meeeeow

process of having his wounds probed for shot, pussy never even groaned.
meeeeow me meooow mew meooow meeeow mew meow, meoow meoow meow meeeeow.

(_See Note H, Addenda._)
(mEow Meow M, Meoooow.m)




But it is in long and severe illnesses that pussy’s patience is best
Mew me me me meow mew meeeow meeooooow meow meoow’m meeeooow me meow

exemplified.
meeeeooooow.




A poor cat, many years ago, took a severe illness--jaundice. He was a fine
M meow mew, meow meeow mew, meow m meeeow meoooow--meeoooow. Me mew m meow

large Tom cat, of the name of Tacket, and a very great pet; but in a short
meeow Mew mew, me mew meow me Meeoow, mew m meow meeow mew; mew me m meeow

time he got reduced to a mere bag of bones; his fine fur came out in
meow me mew meeeoow me m meow mew me meoow; mew meow mew meow mew me

parts, and in parts hung about him like tassels. So pitiful an object
meeow, mew me meoow meow meoow mew meow meeeeow. Me meoooow me meooow

looked he, that his master and mistress had the sin of keeping him alive
meeoow me, meow mew meooow mew meeoooow mew mew mew me meeeoow mew meoow

forcibly pointed out to them by their friends. Indeed, he was now so weak
meeoooow meeeeow mew me meow me meoow meoooow. Meeoow, me mew mew me meow

as to be unable to move from his bed by the kitchen fire. On the 10th day,
me me me meooow me meow meow mew mew me mew meeeeow meow. Me mew meow mew,

when he was at his very worst, a little raw meat was given him; and, his
meow me mew me mew meow meeow, m meooow mew meow mew meoow mew; mew, mew

head being supported, he managed to swallow it. This was the turning point
meow meeow meeooooow, me meeeeow me meoooow me. Meow mew mew meeeeow meoow

of his illness; he began to rally, and soon got well, and plump, and
me mew meeeeow; me meeow me meoow, mew meow mew meow, mew meoow, mew

sleek; and the other day died at the age of twelve. But it was a treat to
meeow; mew mew meoow mew meow me mew mew me meeoow. Mew me mew m meoow me

see how patiently poor Tacket bore his illness. Every morning, when his
mew mew meeeeeeow meow Meeeow meow mew meeeeow. Meeow meoooow, meow mew

master went to see him, although he could not rise, he tried to sing. But
meeeow meow me mew mew, meeoooow me meoow mew meow, me meoow me meow. Mew

the power of purring left him as he got weaker; on the 9th day he could
mew meeow me meoooow meow mew me me mew meooow; me mew mew mew me meeow

just sing one bar, and on the 10th day only one note. This cat had a great
meow meow mew mew, mew me mew meow mew meow mew meow. Meow mew mew m meoow

dislike, for months afterwards, to milk in any shape or form; from having
meeooow, mew meeeow meeeooooow, me meow me mew meoow me meow; meow meeoow

been continually dosed with it while sick, he used positively to shiver at
meow meeeeeoooow meoow meow me meoow meow, me meow meeoooooow me meooow me

the sight of it. (_See Note I, Addenda._)
mew meeow me me. (mEow Meow M, Meoooow.m)




But I have, I believe, said enough to prove pussy’s claim to the
Mew M meow, M meeeoow, meow meeeow me meoow meoow’m meeow me mew

virtues of both patience and gratitude.
meeooow me meow meeoooow mew meoooooow.




[Illustration: ANGORA.
[Meeeeeeoooow: MEEEOW.




First Prize--Owned by MISS M. ARMITAGE.]
Meoow Meeow--Meoow me MEOW M. MEEEOOOW.]




[Illustration: PERSIAN.
[Meeeeeooooow: MEEOOOW.




First Prize--Owned by ---- MONGREDIAN, ESQ.]
Meoow Meoow--Meoow me ---- MEEEEEOOOW, MEW.]




_Habits of Cleanliness in Cats._ It must be allowed, that of all our
mEeooow me Meeeeeeooow me Meow.m Me meow me meeeeow, meow me mew mew

domestic pets, pussy undoubtedly bears the bell for personal cleanliness.
meooooow meow, meeow meeeoooooow meeow mew meow mew meeoooow meoooooooow.

Nature has adorned her with a most beautiful coat, of the softest,
Meeeow mew meeeeow mew meow m meow meeeoooow meow, me mew meeeeow,

silkiest fur and loveliest of colours; and she spares no pains to keep it
meeeeoow mew mew meoooooow me meeooow; mew mew meeoow me meeow me meow me

clean and smart. I firmly believe that the cat is very proud of her
meeow mew meeow. M meooow meoooow meow mew mew me meow meoow me mew

appearance, and likes to cut a dash--here again, by the bye, she resembles
meeeooooow, mew meoow me mew m meow--meow meoow, me mew mew, mew meeeoooow

the female of the human family. Pussy is for ever cleaning and washing at
mew meooow me mew meoow meeoow. Meoow me mew meow meooooow mew meeeeow me

herself. If a well-bred parlour cat, she will never allow a speck of dirt
meeooow. Me m meow-meow meoooow mew, mew meow meeow meeow m meoow me meow

to sully her fur. I can always tell whether a cat is properly cared for,
me meeow mew mew. M mew meeoow meow meeeoow m mew me meeeeeow meeow mew,

and has sufficient food, by the appearance of her coat. If she is allowed
mew mew meeeeeeeow meow, me mew meeeeeeoow me mew meow. Me mew me meeooow

to be hungry, or is badly housed, she soon loses all taste in herself, and
me me meeeow, me me meoow meeoow, mew meow meeow mew meoow me meeooow, mew

doesn’t care a rat’s tail how she looks.
meoow’m meow m mew’m meow mew mew meoow.




When a cat’s coat begins to appear rough and stare, it is the first
Meow m mew’m meow meeoow me meeoow meoow mew meeow, me me mew meeow

indication of approaching illness; and this symptom will never be
meeeooooow me meeooooooow meeooow; mew meow meoooow meow meoow me

unattended to by those who love their pet.
meeeooooow me me meeow mew meow meeow mew.




I have known cats take ill and die from having their coats accidentally
M meow meeow meow meow mew mew mew meow meeoow meoow meeow meeeeeeeeoow

soiled beyond remedy.
meeoow meeeow meeeow.













CHAPTER IV.
MEEOOOW ME.




TRICKS AND TRAINING.
MEEOOW MEW MEEEOOOW.







Some of the tricks which cats perform are highly amusing. Of course I
Meow me mew meeoow meeow meow meeeeow mew meeeow meoooow. Me meeeow M

refer to our fireside puss, and not to publicly performing cats; these
meoow me mew meeoooow meow, mew mew me meeoooow meeeooooow meow; meeow

require special training, and a large amount of educating. But almost any
meoooow meeooow meooooow, mew m meoow meeeow me meeeeeoow. Mew meooow mew

cat will, either of her own accord or with very little teaching, perform
mew meow, meeoow me mew mew meeoow me meow meow meeoow meeeeoow, meeooow

antics and capers enough to amuse children at least, if not indeed to make
meeoow mew meeeow meooow me meeow meeoooow me meoow, me mew meooow me meow

older people smile.
meoow meooow meeow.




Cats must be trained when young; and the very first thing you must teach
Meow meow me meoooow meow meoow; mew mew meow meeow meoow mew meow meoow

them is _to love you_. If you can accomplish this, they will learn almost
meow me mew meow meow. Me mew mew meooooooow meow, meow meow meeow meeeow

anything.
meeoooow.




Cats have great jumping power naturally; and this power can be greatly
Meow meow meoow meoooow meoow meeeoooow; mew meow meeow mew me meoooow

increased, by proper exercise in the days of their kitten-hood. They can
meeeeooow, me meooow meeeooow me mew meow me meoow meeeow-meow. Meow mew

spring almost incredible distances, either up or down. My own favourite,
meeoow meeeow meeeeoooow meeeoooow, meooow me me meow. Me mew meeooooow,

when one year old, used to jump clean over the parlour door, fetching away
meow mew meow mew, meow me meow meeow meow mew meeeeow meow, meeeeeow meow

a bit of meat that had been placed on the top. The best method of
m mew me meow meow mew meow meeeow me mew mew. Mew meow meeoow me

instructing a cat in leaping heights, is to place bits of food at
meeooooooow m mew me meeeoow meeeoow, me me meoow meow me meow me

different elevations, and encourage her to bring them down. She will soon
meeeeooow meeeeoooow, mew meeeoooow mew me meoow meow meow. Mew meow meow

be able to spring seven or eight feet easily; and this same exercise will
me meow me meooow meeow me meoow meow meeoow; mew meow meow meeeeeow meow

stand her many a good turn, in her predatory excursions in the field, or
meeow mew meow m meow meow, me mew meeeeeoow meeeeeeoow me mew meoow, me

her amatory perambulations on the tiles. I have seen a cat, thus trained,
mew meeeeow meeeeeeeeeooow me mew meoow. M meow meow m mew, meow meeeeow,

spring from one house-top to another, a distance of fully ten feet; there
meooow meow mew meoow-mew me meeeoow, m meeeooow me meeow mew meow; meoow

were three other cats, but none dared follow her. I know of a cat, of the
meow meeow meoow meow, mew meow meoow meeoow mew. M meow me m mew, me mew

extraordinary weight of 22 lbs., that springs with apparent ease from the
meeeeeoooooow meooow me me mew., meow meeooow meow meooooow meow meow mew

parlour-floor on to a door over six feet high. (_See Note K, Addenda._)
meeooow-meeow me me m meow meow mew meow meow. (mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m)




At Preston, the other day, my lady Muff chose to declare herself “on the
Me Meeeoow, mew meeow mew, me meow Meow meeow me meeeeow meeeoow “me mew

spree.” As usual on such occasions, half a dozen Toms came to serenade
meeow.” Me meoow me meow meeeoooow, meow m meeow Meow meow me meeeeeow

her; and loudly they sang of her charms. The night being muggy and wet, I
mew; mew meooow meow meow me mew meooow. Mew meeow meeow meoow mew mew, M

determined to keep her ladyship within doors, so Theodore Nero was sent
meeeeoooow me meow mew meeeooow meooow meeow, me Meeoooow Meow mew meow

out to reason with her lovers, while I shut puss up in the bedroom. In
mew me meeoow meow mew meooow, meeow M meow meow me me mew meeeoow. Me

this act of incarceration I was encouraged by the starling, who was busy
meow mew me meeooooooooow M mew meeeeeooow me mew meeoooow, mew mew meow

examining the anatomy of the pin-cushion, but who left off boring holes to
meeeeeoow mew meeeoow me mew mew-meeooow, mew mew meow mew meeeow meoow me

say,--
mew,--




“Bravo, doctor! _Br-ravo!_”
“Meeow, meeeow! mEw-meow!m”




“I’ll _bravo_ you, presently, if you don’t mind,” said Muff as plainly as
“M’me meoooow mew, meeeeeeow, me mew mew’m meow,” meow Meow me meeooow me

eyes and eyebrows could speak. Muff was exceedingly wroth.
meow mew meooooow meoow meoow. Meow mew meeooooooow meoow.




“Is--is--_is_ cats to be trusted?” remarked Dick musingly to himself, as
“Me--me--meow meow me me meeooow?” meeeeoow Meow meeeeeow me meeooow, me

he re-commenced playing Old Harry with the pin-cushion. Now the bed-room
me me-meeooooow meoooow Mew Meeow meow mew mew-meeooow. Mew mew mew-meow

window was just twenty feet from the ground, and had been left open at the
meooow mew meow meooow meow meow mew meeoow, mew mew meow meow meow me mew

top. When I went up to bed, I unlocked the door and entered
mew. Meow M meow me me mew, M meeoooow mew meow mew meoooow

cautiously--for I knew all her tricks and manners. The starling was
meooooooow--mew M meow mew mew meeoow mew meoooow. Mew meooooow mew

perched on the looking-glass, asleep, and Muffie was gone. The blind was
meeooow me mew meeeoow-meeow, meeeow, mew Meeeow mew meow. Mew meoow mew

disarranged. She had jumped over. I went down with a carpet-bag, to look
meeooooooow. Mew mew meeoow meow. M meow meow meow m meeoow-mew, me meow

for her remains; but there weren’t any. Muffie came in at tea-time next
mew mew meeeeow; mew meoow meeow’m mew. Meeoow meow me me mew-meow meow

day, seedy rather, but triumphant.
mew, meoow meeoow, mew meeoooooow.




Another capital plan to teach a cat to leap a height, is to attach a
Meeeoow meeooow meow me meoow m mew me meow m meooow, me me meeoow m

hare’s foot to a piece of string at the end of a fishing rod, and set it
meow’m meow me m meoow me meeoow me mew mew me m meoooow mew, mew mew me

in motion. You can thus regulate the elevation to pussy’s daily increasing
me meeoow. Mew mew meow meeeooow mew meeeeooow me meeow’m meoow meeeeeooow

capabilities. I have seen a cat bring her kittens to this gymnasium, and
meeoooooooow. M meow meow m mew meoow mew meoooow me meow meeeeooow, mew

teach the whole four of them to jump and seize the hare’s foot, which she
meeow mew meoow meow me meow me meow mew meeow mew meow’m meow, meeow mew

herself used to set in motion.
meoooow meow me mew me meooow.




A very common trick, is to teach pussy to jump through your arms. Begin by
M meow meooow meoow, me me meoow meeow me meow meeeeow meow meow. Meoow me

holding them low between your legs; having taught her to leap thus, hold
meoooow meow mew meeeeow meow meow; meooow meeoow mew me meow meow, meow

them to one side, and make her jump either way backwards and forwards.
meow me mew meow, mew meow mew meow meeoow mew meeeeooow mew meeeeeow.

Gradually increase the height, till, standing erect, you form a large P,
Meoooooow meeoooow mew meooow, meow, meooooow meoow, mew meow m meeow M,

and puss springs through the bend of it. Then hold your arms right above
mew meow meoooow meeooow mew meow me me. Meow meow meow meow meoow meeow

you, slightly bending your neck and your cat--presuming the reader is
mew, meeeooow meeeeow meow meow mew meow mew--meeooooow mew meeeow me

anything under seven feet high--shall leap right over your head.
meooooow meeow meeow meow meow--meoow meow meeow meow meow meow.




Very pretty and effective exercise for a cat, is hoop-leaping. It costs
Meow meooow mew meeeeeoow meooooow mew m mew, me meow-meeeeow. Me meeow

little trouble to teach, and every cat will learn it. For this, you must
meeoow meeeeow me meoow, mew meeow mew meow meeow me. Mew meow, mew meow

be provided with a little switch, not to hit the cat, but merely to make a
me meooooow meow m meeoow meeoow, mew me mew mew mew, mew meeoow me meow m

noise in the air. Pronounce the word “hoop” each time you hold the article
meeow me mew mew. Meeeeeoow mew meow “meow” meow meow mew meow mew meeeoow

in front of her, and she will soon learn to go through in whatever
me meoow me mew, mew mew meow meow meeow me me meeeoow me meeeooow

position you hold it. Or you may have a series of hoops, at different
meooooow mew meow me. Me mew mew meow m meeoow me meoow, me meeeeooow

elevations, placed in the garden, a few yards apart; or, better still,
meeoooooow, meeeow me mew meooow, m mew meoow meeow; me, meeoow meoow,

hung from the couples of a barn or grain-loft. On these last a young and
meow meow mew meoooow me m meow me meoow-meow. Me meoow meow m meeow mew

healthy cat soon becomes quite a wonderful performer; and, if you wish her
meeooow mew meow meoooow meeow m meeeeeoow meoooooow; mew, me mew meow mew

to be still more highly educated in the hoop business, you can dip your
me me meeow meow meeoow meooooow me mew meow meeeooow, mew mew mew meow

hoop in methylated spirits of wine and set fire to it; she will go through
meow me meooooooow meoooow me meow mew mew meow me me; mew meow me meoooow

just the same. Or cover the hoop with thin tissue paper, and teach her to
meow mew meow. Me meoow mew meow meow meow meooow meeow, mew meoow mew me

go through it. At first the paper must be oiled, so as to be nearly
me meoooow me. Me meeow mew meeow meow me meoow, me me me me meeoow

transparent. A friend of mine, coming home at twelve o’clock the other
meeeeooooow. M meeoow me meow, meeeow meow me meooow m’meoow mew meeow

night, heard an awful noise and rattling in an out-house which he had
meoow, meoow me meoow meeow mew meeeooow me me mew-meoow meoow me mew

fitted up as a cat gymnasium. On going in with a light, he was surprised
meeeow me me m mew meeeoooow. Me meeow me meow m meeow, me mew meeeoooow

to find two full-grown kittens performing--they had been giving a dark
me meow mew meow-meeow meeooow meeeooooow--meow mew meow meeoow m meow

_séance_ on their own account.
meooooow me meoow mew meeooow.




After any performance, you must never forget to reward poor puss with food
Meeow mew meeeoooooow, mew meow meoow meeeow me meeeow meow meow meow meow

and water, which latter, on these occasions, she will prefer to milk.
mew meoow, meoow meooow, me meeow meeeeeoow, mew meow meooow me meow.

Cats, you know, are not very fond of music, still I have known them taught
Meow, mew meow, mew mew meow meow me meeow, meoow M meow meeow meow meeoow

to move rhythmically to it.
me meow meeeooooooow me me.




The hearth-rug is the arena on which puss may be taught to perform a
Mew meeoow-mew me mew meoow me meoow meow mew me meeoow me meoooow m

variety of tricks. I know a cat that, if you ask her to show you how a
meeooow me meeeow. M meow m mew meow, me mew mew mew me meow mew mew m

hare lies in the market, throws herself on the floor on her side, and,
meow meow me mew meeeow, meeoow meeooow me mew meeow me mew meow, mew,

stretching her fore-legs and hind-legs in a line with her body, lies
meooooooow mew meow-meow mew meow-meow me m meow meow mew meow, meow

there, to all appearance dead, till you bid her rise.
meeow, me mew meeeeoooow meow, meow mew mew mew meow.




I know a cat that turns somersaults on request. You can easily teach a cat
M meow m mew meow meoow meoooooooow me meoooow. Mew mew meeeow meeow m mew

to beg after the fashion of a broken-haired terrier, as also to give a
me mew meeow mew meoooow me m meooow-meeoow meeooow, me meow me meow m

paw--right or left, and to jump on your knee, and, placing its two
mew--meoow me meow, mew me meow me meow meow, mew, meeeeow mew mew

fore-legs one on each side of your neck, execute quite a theatrical
meow-meow mew me meow meow me meow meow, meeeeow meoow m meeeooooow

embrace. Or you may make her stand in a corner on her hind-legs, until
meeeoow. Me mew mew meow mew meeow me m meooow me mew meow-meow, meeow

requested to drop down. I know a pussy that jumps on a chair at the
meeeeeeow me meow meow. M meow m meoow meow meoow me m meeow me mew

bidding of her mistress, and, placing her fore-paws over the back, rests
meeeoow me mew meeeeoow, mew, meoooow mew meow-meow meow mew meow, meeow

her head on them, and simulates sleep. Indeed, nothing is more easy than
mew meow me meow, mew meeooooow meoow. Meeeow, meeeeow me meow meow meow

to teach a cat to open or shut her eyes at the word of command. (_See Note
me meoow m mew me meow me meow mew meow me mew meow me meeooow. (mEow Meow

L, Addenda._)
M, Meeooow.m)




There are two things which every household puss may, and ought to be,
Meoow mew mew meeeow meeow meeow meeeeooow meow mew, mew meeow me me,

taught, viz., to come and lie down quietly by the fire or on the sofa,
meeeow, mew., me meow mew mew meow meeeoow me mew meow me me mew meow,

when told, and to “watch,” that is, to sit by a mouse hole, where you know
meow meow, mew me “meeow,” meow me, me mew me m meoow meow, meeow mew meow

a mouse to be, until she catches it; but you must never deceive her.
m meeow me me, meoow mew meoooow me; mew mew meow meeow meeeeow mew.




I know of a daft little puss who sits on her master’s shoulder at dinner;
M meow me m meow meooow meow mew meow me mew meooow’m meeoooow me meeoow;

and when he is about to treat himself to some specially tempting morsel,
mew meow me me meeow me meeow meoooow me meow meeeoooow meeeooow meeoow,

cleverly snatches it from the fork as he is putting it to his mouth, and
meeeeoow meeeeoow me meow mew meow me me me meeeoow me me mew meoow, mew

transfers it to her own. She does it with such an apparent appreciation of
meeeeeoow me me mew mew. Mew meow me meow meow me meeeeeow meeeeoooooow me

the fun of the joke, that no one could be angry with her. (_See Note M,
mew mew me mew meow, meow me mew meoow me meoow meow mew. (mEow Meow M,

Addenda._)
Meeeoow.m)




You can easily teach your cat to become an expert fisher, by throwing
Mew mew meeeow meeow meow mew me meeeow me meeoow meeeow, me meeoooow

half-dead minnows on the top of the water, and encouraging her to jump in
meow-meow meoooow me mew mew me mew meoow, mew meeeeeeooow mew me meow me

and seize them.
mew meoow meow.




Cats can be taught to ring the bell and to open the door.
Meow mew me meeeow me meow mew meow mew me meow mew meow.




But whatever other tricks or performances you may care to teach her, it is
Mew meeeeoow meeow meeoow me meeeeoooooow mew mew meow me meoow mew, me me

very much for pussy’s future welfare that she should, when young, have
meow meow mew meeow’m meeoow meeooow meow mew meooow, meow meoow, meow

plenty of leaping exercise; and if, at the same time, you make a good
meooow me meeeoow meeoooow; mew me, me mew meow meow, mew meow m meow

retriever of her, she will form the habit of always bringing home her
meeooooow me mew, mew meow meow mew meoow me meeeow meooooow meow mew

prey. For, with all due respect for the game laws, I do like to see a cat
meow. Mew, meow mew mew meeeeow mew mew meow meow, M me meow me mew m mew

come trotting home in the gloaming, with a nice young leveret or a plump
meow meeoooow meow me mew meeeeeow, meow m meow meoow meoooow me m meeow

partridge in her mouth; nobody is any the poorer, and her master has
meeeoooow me mew meeow; meeoow me mew mew meeeow, mew mew meooow mew

something nice for supper. You teach a cat to retrieve with a hare’s foot.
meeeeeoow meow mew meooow. Mew meeow m mew me meeeeeow meow m meow’m meow.

Teach her in the parlour first, then by flinging the plaything out of
Meoow mew me mew meoooow meoow, meow me meeeooow mew meeooooow mew me

doors. She will soon learn to bring it in and lay it at your feet. A
meoow. Mew meow meow meoow me meoow me me mew mew me me meow meow. M

freshly-killed bird may then be used, and you will very soon have the
meeeoow-meeoow meow mew meow me meow, mew mew meow meow meow meow mew

satisfaction of seeing her invariably bring home her quarry.
meeeeeooooow me meeoow mew meeoooooow meoow meow mew meeoow.




In the country, but only in the country, you may teach your cat to follow
Me mew meeeeow, mew meow me mew meeeeow, mew mew meoow meow mew me meeeow

you in your walks just like a dog, and she will never lose you either by
mew me meow meoow meow meow m mew, mew mew meow meoow meow mew meeoow me

night or day.
meeow me mew.




Cats come to your “whistle” much better than to any other call.
Meow meow me meow “meeooow” meow meeeow meow me mew meoow meow.




In training this interesting animal, you must have every consideration for
Me meeeeoow meow meoooooooow meeeow, mew meow meow meoow meeooooooooow mew

her failings and weaknesses, and must never forget that she will do almost
mew meeeooow mew meeeeeeeow, mew meow meeow meeoow meow mew meow me meeoow

anything, for one who loves her and treats her with kindness.
meooooow, mew mew mew meeow mew mew meeeow mew meow meeoooow.




Inculcate habits of cleanliness in grown cats. There are times when,
Meeeoooow meeeow me meeeoooooow me meoow meow. Meeow mew meoow meow,

through accident or having been shut in a room, even the most
meeeoow meeeeoow me meooow meow meow me m meow, meow mew meow

highly-trained cat will deviate from the paths of decency. Never
meeoow-meeeoow mew meow meoooow meow mew meoow me meeooow. Meoow

altogether overlook a thing of this sort. Take the cat, gently, but
meeeeeeoow meeeooow m meoow me meow meow. Meow mew mew, meeeow, mew

firmly, to the place, and show her you are angry--cats are dreadfully
meooow, me mew meeow, mew meow mew mew mew meeow--meow mew meeeeeeeow

frightened at a scolding--this will generally prevent a repetition of the
meeeooooow me m meeeeeow--meow meow meeooooow meoooow m meeeeeeeow me mew

offence. But if the same thing should occur again, and there is no excuse
meeeoow. Mew me mew meow meeow meooow meeow meeow, mew meoow me me meooow

of a closed room or a locked door, then corporeal punishment becomes
me m meooow meow me m meooow meow, meow meoooooow meeoooooow meeeeow

necessary. But it must not be severe, or all remembrance of her crime will
meeeeeoow. Mew me meow mew me meeoow, me mew meeeeeeooow me mew meoow meow

be lost in the pain of the correction. Cats are very delicate, and easily
me meow me mew meow me mew meeoooooow. Meow mew meow meeoooow, mew meeoow

injured about the head. Carry her at once to the scene of her
meeeoow meeow mew meow. Meoow mew me meow me mew meeow me mew

misdemeanour, and ask her if she sees it, then with a little bit of
meeoooooooow, mew mew mew me mew meow me, meow meow m meooow mew me

whalebone switch her several times across the fore-paws; or tips only of
meeooooow meeoow mew meeeoow meeow meooow mew meow-meow; me meow meow me

the ears, and turn her outside the front door. But in no case should
mew meow, mew meow mew meeeeow mew meeow meow. Mew me me meow meooow

correction partake of the nature of revenge.
meeeeeeoow meeooow me mew meeoow me meeeeow.




If the cat-fancier will attend to these simple rules, he will have cats
Me mew mew-meeeoow meow meooow me meeow meeeow meeow, me meow meow meow

that he will be proud of, and they will be proud of him.
meow me meow me meeow me, mew meow meow me meeow me mew.













CHAPTER V.
MEEOOOW M.




CRUELTY TO CATS.
MEEEOOW ME MEOW.







I think it my duty to warn the reader that this is essentially a chapter
M meeow me me meow me meow mew meeeow meow meow me meeeeeeeeow m meeooow

of horrors; so that if her or his feelings do not tend in that direction,
me meeooow; me meow me mew me mew meooooow me mew meow me meow meeeeeoow,

it may be skipped. If it pains any one to read it, it must be remembered
me mew me meeooow. Me me meoow mew mew me meow me, me meow me meeoooooow

that it was much more painful to me to write it; and only the hope of
meow me mew meow meow meeooow me me me meeow me; mew meow mew meow me

enlisting the sympathy of the kind-hearted and benevolent in pussy’s
meoooooow mew meeoooow me mew meow-meeeoow mew meeeeeooow me meoow’m

favour could have induced me to do so. How far I have been successful,
meooow meeow meow meeooow me me me me. Mew mew M meow meow meeeooooow,

time will tell. Indeed, I believe the day is not far distant, when it will
meow meow meow. Meeoow, M meeeoow mew mew me mew mew meeeeow, meow me meow

become the fashion, nay even a portion of our religion, to treat all
meeoow mew meeeeow, mew meow m meeooow me mew meooooow, me meeow mew

animals, from the dog downwards, with kindness and consideration; and,
meoooow, meow mew mew meeeeooow, meow meooooow mew meeeeeeeeeoow; mew,

when necessity determines life to be taken, to take it in the least cruel
meow meoooooow meeeeeooow meow me me meoow, me meow me me mew meoow meeow

and most humane manner possible. A good and noble work has been begun by
mew meow meeoow meooow meeeeoow. M meow mew meeow meow mew meow meoow me

the Royal Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. All honour to it,
mew Meoow Meeeeow mew Meeoooooow me Meeeoow me Meeeoow. Mew meeoow me me,

and success to its organ, _The Animal World_. The field is indeed a wide
mew meeeeow me mew meoow, mEow Meooow Meooow. Mew meeow me meooow m meow

one; and one can scarcely help feeling almost despairingly, as he looks
mew; mew mew mew meeoooow meow meeooow meooow meeeeoooooow, me me meoow

abroad upon the world, and sees the vast amount of cruelty there is to
meeeow meow mew meeow, mew meow mew meow meeeow me meeooow meeow me me

suppress. But stone by stone old Rome was built; and as the good work
meeeooow. Mew meeow me meoow mew Meow mew meoow; mew me mew meow meow

advances, the labourers will increase, and success in the end is certain.
meeoooow, mew meeeoooow meow meeeeeow, mew meeeoow me mew mew me meoooow.

As the case now stands, I think the assistance, of the pulpit by precept,
Me mew meow mew meeoow, M meoow mew meeeeeeeow, me mew meeeow me meeooow,

and of the great and rich by example, is sadly wanted to support the
mew me mew meoow mew meow me meeeeow, me meoow meooow me meeooow mew

cause. The efforts of the Society are at present more particularly
meoow. Mew meeooow me mew Meeeoow mew me meoooow meow meooooooooow

directed to obtaining convictions against offenders for ill-treating,
meeeeoow me meoooooow meeeeooooow meeooow meeeeooow mew mew-meeeooow,

overloading, or torturing horses and donkeys; for improperly conveying and
meeooooooow, me meoooooow meeeow mew meoooow; mew meeeeeooow meeooooow mew

starving cattle, calves, pigs, and goats; for cruelties to birds, and for
meeeeoow meooow, meeeow, meow, mew meeow; mew meeeeooow me meeow, mew mew

ill-using dogs and cats. Alas! poor pussy comes last and least. But, as
mew-meoow meow mew meow. Meow! meow meeow meeow meow mew meeow. Mew, me

the world advances in civilization, and becomes more humane, new laws will
mew meoow meeeooow me meeeeeooooow, mew meeeoow meow meooow, mew meow meow

have to be framed, anent the great ocean of cruelty, the waves of which we
meow me me meeeow, meoow mew meeow meoow me meeooow, mew meoow me meoow me

see tumbling and breaking around us every day, and making us apathetic,
mew meeeooow mew meeeeoow meeeow me meeow mew, mew meeeow me meeeeeoow,

because of their very number and our own inability to oppose them.
meeeeow me meeow meow meooow mew mew mew meeeeooow me meooow meow.




Why should horses be for ever worked to death, or till death? Why should
Mew meeoow meooow me mew meow meeeow me meoow, me meow meoow? Mew meeeow

their labours and hardships be increased, with their increasing years and
meeow meoooow mew meeeeeoow me meeeeooow, meow meoow meeeeeooow meeow mew

infirmities? We care for and love them when young and handsome; when they
meoooooooow? Me meow mew mew meow meow meow meoow mew meooooow; meow meow

grow old we forget their former services, ill-treat and starve them, and
meow mew me meeoow meoow meeoow meeeeeow, mew-meoow mew meeoow meow, mew

finally thrash them into the knacker’s yard.
meoooow meeoow meow meow mew meoooow’m meow.




Why should donkeys--those patient, much-enduring animals--be all their
Mew meooow meoooow--meeow meeooow, meow-meeeooow meoooow--me mew meeow

poor lives treated with such systematic brutality?
meow meeow meeeeow meow meow meeeeeeeow meeeeooow?




Why should cattle of all sorts be driven to the markets, or conveyed by
Mew meeoow meeeow me mew meeow me meeeow me mew meeeoow, me meeoooow me

rail or steam-boat for long dreary journeys, without either food or water?
meow me meeow-meow mew meow meeoow meeeooow, meoooow meeoow meow me meoow?

Why should they be slaughtered with so little regard to their sufferings,
Mew meeeow meow me meeeoooooow meow me meooow meooow me meoow meeoooooow,

when the sting of death could be so easily drawn, ere the fatal blow was
meow mew meeow me meoow meeow me me meeeow meoow, mew mew meeow meow mew

struck?
meeoow?




Why should turkeys, fowls, geese, and ducks be carried to market, with
Mew meeeow meeooow, meoow, meoow, mew meoow me meeeeow me meooow, meow

feet tied, and hung over poles head downwards, or huddled together in
meow meow, mew meow meow meoow meow meeeeeoow, me meeooow meeeeeow me

cramped baskets, and kept, sometimes, in such pain and suffering that
meoooow meeooow, mew meow, meeooooow, me meow meow mew meeeeeeow meow

death itself must be sweet relief?
meoow meooow meow me meeow meooow?




Why should pigeons, and other smaller birds, be shot in so cowardly and
Mew meeeow meeeoow, mew meoow meeeeow meeow, me meow me me meeeooow mew

inhumane a manner as is the fashion at matches in the present day?
meeeooow m meooow me me mew meoooow me meeeoow me mew meeeeow mew?

Cockfighting itself is much less cruel; for there each bird has a chance
Meeeeeeeooow meooow me meow meow meoow; mew meoow meow meow mew m meeeow

of life, and the wounded are slain.
me meow, mew mew meoooow mew meoow.




For the numerous cruelties inflicted on fishes, we can hardly name a
Mew mew meeeeeow meeeoooow meeeoooow me meeoow, me mew meeeow meow m

remedy yet; but has the reader ever thought of the agony which must be
meeoow mew; mew mew mew meeeow meow meeeoow me mew meeow meoow meow me

endured by the lobster and crab in being boiled alive?
meeeeow me mew meeooow mew meow me meoow meeeow meoow?




All these outrages on animal life might be prevented or greatly
Mew meeow meeoooow me meeeow meow meoow me meeeeeoow me meeeeow

ameliorated by just and proper laws. England, I trust, will be the first
meeeeeoooow me meow mew meooow meow. Meeeoow, M meoow, meow me mew meoow

to take the lead in this matter; and, depend upon it, that nation’s arm
me meow mew meow me meow meeeow; mew, meeeow meow me, meow meeeow’m mew

will always be the strongest on the day of battle, that, in the time of
meow meeoow me mew meeeeeeow me mew mew me meeoow, meow, me mew meow me

peace, is employed in labours of love, and in the advancement of
meoow, me meeoooow me meeeeow me meow, mew me mew meeeeooooow me

civilization and humanity.
meeeooooooow mew meeeeeow.




The Mohammedans are far before us in kindness to the lower animals.
Mew Meeeeeeeoow mew mew meooow me me meeeooow me mew meoow meeeeow.

“Accursed be he who spilleth blood,” is one of their sayings.
“Meeeooow me me mew meeeeeow meeow,” me mew me meoow meeeoow.




Now, the Hindoos, for instance, are a much older nation than we are. They
Mew, mew Meeooow, mew meeoooow, mew m meow meeow meeoow meow me mew. Meow

were clothed, and in their right minds, thousands of years before we were
meow meeeeow, mew me meeow meeow meeow, meeeeeoow me meoow meeoow me meow

out of pig-skin kilts and paint. We are trying to learn from theory what
mew me mew-meow meoow mew meoow. Me mew meooow me meeow meow meeoow meow

they have found out from long experience, and will no doubt arrive at the
meow meow meeow mew meow meow meeoooooow, mew meow me meeow meooow me mew

same conclusions after the loss of much valuable time. I know a gentleman
meow meoooooooow meoow mew meow me meow meeeeeow meow. M meow m meeeeooow

who puts faith in no statement in the abstract, even if the speaker should
mew meow meeow me me meeeeeeow me mew meeeeeow, meow me mew meeooow meooow

be as old as Methuselah--which isn’t often the case--and as wise as Ahab,
me me mew me Meooooooow--meeow mew’m meoow mew meow--mew me meow me Meow,

until he has carefully ground, as it were, the syllogism in his own mill,
meeow me mew meeooooow meeeow, me me meow, mew meeooooow me mew mew meow,

thoroughly sifted it, and microscopically examined it; then he looks
meeoooooow meeeow me, mew meeeeeeeeeeeoow meooooow me; meow me meeow

surprised, smiles, and says, “By George, old Thingummy was right after
meeeeeoow, meeoow, mew meow, “Me Meeeow, mew Meeeeeeow mew meoow meoow

all.” He can’t help it however; it is the result of a too liberal
mew.” Me mew’m meow me meeeeow; me me mew meeeow me m mew meoooow

education. He is constantly grinding away at a proverb. Now, I think
meeeeeeow. Me me meeeooooow meeeooow meow me m meeooow. Mew, M meoow

proverbs are the pith of a nation’s experience: the wisdom of a country is
meeeeeow mew mew meow me m meooow’m meeoooooow: mew meooow me m meeeeow me

skimmed off, boiled, evaporated to dryness, burned to get rid of organic
meoooow mew, meeoow, meeeeoooow me meoooow, meooow me mew mew me meoooow

impurities, and the residue washed and distilled, and the essential oil
meooooooow, mew mew meoooow meeoow mew meeeeeeow, mew mew meeeeooow mew

bottled--in a proverb. But my learned friend, on first hearing one, says,
meeeoow--me m meoooow. Mew me meoooow meeeow, me meoow meeooow mew, meow,

“Oh, nonsense! Can’t be.” The proverb haunts him, however, both by night
“Me, meooooow! Mew’m me.” Mew meeeeow meooow mew, meoooow, meow me meoow

and day, for perhaps a fortnight, perhaps longer, until it is properly
mew mew, mew meoooow m meoooooow, meeooow meooow, meeow me me meeeooow

thought out in all its bearings; _then_ he believes it--not before. He
meeeoow mew me mew mew meeoooow; meooow me meeeeoow me--mew meeoow. Me

would save much time by having a little more credulity; but he is getting
meeow meow meow meow me meeoow m meeoow meow meeeeooow; mew me me meeeeow

wise, and if he lives long enough he will be very wise indeed, although
meow, mew me me meeow meow meeoow me meow me meow meow meeoow, meeeeoow

the process may cost him his teeth--he is bald already.
mew meoooow mew meow mew mew meoow--me me meow meeooow.




The Hindoos have, long ago, come to the conclusion that it is wrong to
Mew Meoooow meow, meow mew, meow me mew meeoooooow meow me me meoow me

take life, and accordingly they don’t--barring that they murder their
meow meow, mew meeeeeeooow meow mew’m--meeooow meow meow meeoow meoow

wives when it is required. I think they are right, although I myself draw
meeow meow me me meeeeeow. M meoow meow mew meeow, meeeeeow M meooow meow

the line at naval cockroaches; and the fact that they are disagreeable
mew meow me meoow meeeeooooow; mew mew meow meow meow mew meeeeeooooow

things to kill, may have something to do with my sparing them. Besides, a
meeoow me meow, mew meow meeeeeeow me me meow me meeeoow meow. Meeeoow, m

cockroach has so many relations, and these all come to his funeral, and
meeeeooow mew me meow meoooooow, mew meoow mew meow me mew meeooow, mew

insist on seeing him decently interred. This ceremony they perform by
meeeow me meooow mew meooooow meeeeoow. Meow meeeeoow meow meoooow me

tasting, tasting at him until nothing remains.
meoooow, meeeeow me mew meoow meoooow meeeeow.




I was one day “counting my pieces” to my Indian washerman, on the deck of
M mew mew mew “meeeooow me meeeow” me me Meooow meeeeooow, me mew meow me

my cabin, when out from the bosom of a nightshirt dropped a nine-inch-long
me meoow, meow mew meow mew meoow me m meooooooow meoooow m meow-meow-meow

centipede in the full vigour of health and intellect, and began making the
meeeeeeow me mew meow meeoow me meeoow mew meeeeeeow, mew meeow meeeow mew

best of his way to the nearest shelter. Giving instant chase, and having
meow me mew mew me mew meoooow meeeeow. Meooow meeeoow meeow, mew meeoow

the advantage in length of legs, if not in number, I should soon have run
mew meeeeeeow me meeoow me meow, me mew me meeoow, M meeoow meow meow mew

him down, had not the impudent Hindoo, at the very last moment, pulled me
mew meow, mew mew mew meeoooow Meeeow, me mew meow meow meeoow, meeoow me

back by my frock-coat tails. Such an indignity to a British officer, on
meow me me meeow-meow meeow. Meow me meeeoooow me m Meeooow meeooow, me

board a British man-o’-war, was hardly to be borne with impunity. I
meeow m Meeooow mew-m’-mew, mew meeeow me me meeow meow meeeeoow. M

turned, and looking him full in the face in my most impressive manner--
meeoow, mew meeeoow mew meow me mew meow me me meow meooooooow meeoow--




“Sir,” said I, “are you aware that Britons never, _never_,
“Mew,” meow M, “mew mew meeow meow Meoooow meoow, meoooow,

NEVER--will--be--slaves?”
MEOOW--meow--me--meooow?”




The dobee salaamed.
Mew meeow meooooow.




“Then,” continued I, “what have you got to say, that I should not punch
“Meow,” meeeeeeow M, “meow meow mew mew me mew, meow M meeoow mew meoow

your head or kick your rascally shins, for conniving at the escape of
meow meow me meow meow meeoooow meoow, mew meeeeooow me mew meeoow me

yonder centipede that has just gained his crevice, and is, even now,
meeoow meeeeeoow meow mew meow meooow mew meeeeow, mew me, meow mew,

making faces at me with impunity?”
meooow meeow me me meow meeeooow?”




The dobee drew himself up.
Mew meeow meow meeeeow me.




“Sahib,” said he, “you can kickee my head, you can punchee my shin--all
“Meeow,” meow me, “mew mew meeoow me meow, mew mew meeooow me meow--mew

same. Allah is good, and the Koran say, ‘Thou shalt not kill.’”
meow. Meoow me meow, mew mew Meoow mew, ‘Meow meoow mew meow.’”




“_Thou shalt not kill_,” repeated I; “why, the man must have learned the
“mEeow meeow mew meoow,” meooooow M; “mew, mew mew meow meow meoooow mew

‘Shorter Catechism;’ he can’t be such a heathen after all.”
‘Meeeeow Meeeeooow;’ me mew’m me meow m meeeoow meoow mew.”




The dobee triumphed. I shook him by the hand, and he had my washing ever
Mew meoow meeeeeeow. M meoow mew me mew meow, mew me mew me meeeoow meow

after.
meoow.




Enter my servant one day. I was living in a room on shore at Bombay.
Meeow me meeeeow mew mew. M mew meooow me m meow me meeow me Meeeow.




“Man come for your little ones, Sahib,” said he.
“Mew meow mew meow meeeow meow, Meoow,” meow me.




“Pandoo,” said I in a solemn voice, “what do you mean? I’m a respectable
“Meeeow,” meow M me m meeeow meeow, “meow me mew meow? M’m m meeeeooooow

unmarried man, and never deserved any.”
meeeoooow mew, mew meoow meeeooow mew.”




The man, who entered behind Pandoo, carried a shovel, a brush, and a
Mew mew, mew meoooow meeoow Meooow, meeooow m meeoow, m meoow, mew m

basket; and I soon discovered that my little ones meant all the earwigs,
meeoow; mew M meow meooooooow meow me meeoow meow meeow mew mew meeooow,

bugs, centipedes, and crickets, of which I had a fair sprinkling of each
meow, meeeooooow, mew meeeeeow, me meeow M mew m meow meeeeeooow me meow

sort; and he came, not to destroy, but actually to carry them away. He
meow; mew me meow, mew me meeeeow, mew meeeeeow me meoow meow meow. Me

swept my room and bed moderately clean, and I afterwards found that he had
meeow me meow mew mew meeeeoooow meeow, mew M meeoooooow meeow meow me mew

taken the contents of the basket to the corner of a field, and emptied
meoow mew meeeeoow me mew meeeow me mew meeoow me m meeow, mew meeeoow

them among some straw. For no true Buddhist takes life; and when cows and
meow meoow meow meoow. Mew me meow Meeeeoow meoow meow; mew meow meow mew

horses get infirm, they are regularly superannuated, and sent to an asylum
meeoow mew meooow, meow mew meeooooow meeooooooooow, mew meow me me meooow

where they may end their days in peace.
meoow meow mew mew meeow meow me meeow.




The scenes of cruelty to the lower animals, which one witnesses in the
Mew meeoow me meeeoow me mew meeow meeeeow, meeow mew meeeeeoow me mew

streets and lanes of our own country, are almost enough to make one doubt
meeooow mew meoow me mew mew meeeoow, mew meooow meooow me meow mew meeow

the goodness of God. In many cases, a person at all sensitive cannot
mew meeoooow me Mew. Me meow meoow, m meooow me mew meeeeeeow meeeow

refrain from interfering; and, unless he can show some proper authority
meeeoow meow meeeeooooow; mew, meooow me mew meow meow meeeow meeeoooow

for so doing, he will in most cases come off second-best, and do harm to
mew me meoow, me meow me meow meoow meow mew meeoow-meow, mew me meow me

the very victim he meant to protect. I have often constituted myself a
mew meow meeoow me meeow me meeooow. M meow meeow meeeeeeeoow meooow m

sort of knight-errant to distressed quadrupeds; and I flatter myself I
meow me meeoow-meeeow me meeeeoooow meooooooow; mew M meeeeow meeeow M

have at times done some good, either by going quietly up to the
meow me meeow meow meow meow, meeeow me meoow meeeeow me me mew

perpetrator of the cruelty and trying to reason with him, or, with a
meeooooooow me mew meeeoow mew meooow me meooow meow mew, me, meow m

pretended show of authority, demanding his name and address. A man of this
meeeeooow meow me meeooooow, meeooooow mew meow mew meeooow. M mew me meow

sort is always a coward, and usually “funks” at once. I once had my nose
meow me meeoow m meeeow, mew meeooow “meeow” me meow. M meow mew me meow

broken, though, in a row with a butcher about ill-treating a cow. That
meeeow, meeeow, me m mew meow m meeeoow meoow mew-meeeooow m mew. Meow

brought my knight-errantry to a bloody close for a fortnight; but, thanks
meeeeow me meeeow-meeeeoow me m meeoow meoow mew m meeeoooow; mew, meeoow

to good surgery, the organ is none the worse.
me meow meeooow, mew meoow me meow mew meoow.




Last February, while walking in a lane in the neighbourhood of a rural
Meow Meeeeoow, meoow meeooow me m meow me mew meeeoooooooow me m meoow

village, I met a fellow--certainly the most brutal lout ever I
meoooow, M mew m meeeow--meeeeeeow mew meow meeoow meow meow M

saw--driving, or rather pushing along, two unhappy sheep. The creatures
mew--meeeoow, me meeoow meeooow meeow, mew meeeeow meoow. Mew meeooooow

had walked a very long distance, and appeared completely exhausted; for
mew meeeow m meow meow meeeooow, mew meeeeoow meeeeeeeow meeeeeeow; mew

the wind was very high, and the cold rain and sleet were beating in their
mew meow mew meow meow, mew mew meow meow mew meoow meow meeeoow me meoow

faces, and stupifying them. Besides, the scoundrel had been striking them
meoow, mew meeeooooow meow. Meeeoow, mew meeooooow mew meow meeeeeow meow

with a strong black-thorn cane; and, as he dared not touch them about the
meow m meeoow meeow-meeow meow; mew, me me meoow mew meeow meow meeow mew

body, for fear of injuring the appearance of the mutton,--for mutton they
meow, mew meow me meeeeeow mew meooooooow me mew meeoow,--mew meeoow meow

soon would be,--it was across the forehead and nose he hit them, so the
meow meoow me,--me mew meeeow mew meooooow mew meow me mew meow, me mew

blood was trickling down in streams, and as they shook their heads with
meeow mew meeeeeeow meow me meeeeow, mew me meow meoow meeow meeow meow

pain, their pretty fleeces were all besmeared. Oh, the amount of misery
meow, meeow meeoow meeooow meow mew meeeeeoow. Me, mew meeeow me meooow

depicted in their poor patient eyes! The very dogs seemed ashamed of their
meeeeoow me meeow meow meoooow meow! Mew meow meow meeeow meoooow me meeow

master’s conduct.
meeoow’m meeeeow.




“It’s to be killed, they are to be, at any rate,” said the fellow when I
“Me’m me me meeeow, meow mew me me, me mew meow,” meow mew meeeow meow M

remonstrated with him on his conduct; “and, curse them,” he cried, “I’ll
meeeeeeeeeow meow mew me mew meeooow; “mew, meoow meow,” me meoow, “M’me

make them go.” And again the blows began to fall. The sheep moaned low,
meow meow me.” Mew meeow mew meeow meeow me meow. Mew meeow meeoow mew,

and I closed with my friend. A vicious tussle, and the stick flew over the
mew M meeoow meow me meooow. M meoooow meeoow, mew mew meoow meow meow mew

hedge. Then the lout flew at me. He hit my fist a tremendous blow with his
meeow. Meow mew meow meow me me. Me mew me meow m meeeeeeeow meow meow mew

lower jaw, the result of which was, that he immediately took the world on
meoow mew, mew meeeow me meeow mew, meow me meeeoooooow meow mew meoow me

his back, like old Atlas--he took the world on his back several times
mew meow, meow mew Meoow--me meow mew meeow me mew meow meeeeow meoow

before he seemed tired of it. Then I gave him to understand, that by way
meeoow me meeoow meoow me me. Meow M meow mew me meeoooooow, meow me mew

of recompense for knocking him down, I should at once find a policeman to
me meeeeeeoow mew meooooow mew meow, M meeeow me meow meow m meeooooow me

take him up, unless he immediately accompanied me to a neighbouring
meow mew me, meeoow me meoooooooow meeooooooow me me m meeeeoooooow

killing-house, to get a butcher to slaughter the sheep. He reluctantly
meeeoow-meoow, me mew m meeeeow me meeeeeoow mew meoow. Me meeeeooooow

consented, and the sorrows of those two dumb creatures soon came to an
meeeoooow, mew mew meeeoow me meoow mew meow meoooooow meow meow me me

end.
mew.




About the commonest, if not the simplest form of cruelty to poor pussy, is
Meoow mew meeeeeeow, me mew mew meeeeeow meow me meoooow me meow meeow, me

that of neglecting to feed her regularly, and at the proper times. Many
meow me meooooooow me meow mew meeooooow, mew me mew meooow meeow. Meow

people are guilty of this who would not willingly do an unkind action;
meeoow mew meeeow me meow mew meeow mew meeeeeeow me me meeeow meeeow;

they err through ignorance, or want of thought. Pussy, they imagine, can
meow mew meeeoow meeeeeoow, me meow me meoooow. Meeow, meow meeooow, mew

easily pick up all she needs about the floor. There could hardly be a
meeoow meow me mew mew meeow meoow mew meeow. Meoow meoow meeeow me m

greater mistake, or one more fatal to pussy’s existence as a pet. For the
meeeoow meeooow, me mew meow meeow me meoow’m meeeeooow me m mew. Mew mew

mere fact of her having to look out for her own food will make her
meow meow me mew meeeow me meow mew mew mew mew meow meow meow mew

dishonest. Others starve their cats to make them catch mice; the very
meeeeooow. Meooow meeeow meoow meow me meow meow meoow meow; mew meow

opposite is the case. It is your plump, well-fed, sleek grimalkins that
meeeooow me mew meow. Me me meow meoow, meow-mew, meoow meeeeeeeow meow

are the best mousers; a starveling has not courage nor heart enough to
mew mew meow meeeoow; m meeoooooow mew mew meeooow mew meeow meeeow me

kill a midge, let alone a mouse.
meow m meeow, mew meeow m meoow.




Higher in the scale of cruelty is the only too common practice of leaving
Meeeow me mew meoow me meeeoow me mew meow mew meeeow meeeooow me meoooow

pussy at home to shift for herself, when the family moves to the seaside
meoow me meow me meoow mew meeeeow, meow mew meooow meoow me mew meeeeow

or country, in holiday season. In some instances the cat has access to and
me meeooow, me meeeeow meooow. Me meow meeeeeoow mew mew mew meooow me mew

from the house, by some private door of her own. In this case, she will
meow mew meoow, me meow meeeeow meow me mew mew. Me meow meow, mew meow

generally manage to eke out a miserable existence, from the scraps she
meeeoooow meeeow me mew mew m meeeeooow meoooooow, meow mew meooow mew

picks up on the dung-hill; or she will become a thief, and make raids on
meoow me me mew meow-meow; me mew meow meeoow m meeow, mew meow meeow me

the pigeon-houses or rabbit-boxes of the neighbours. At all events she is
mew meeeow-meeoow me meeeow-meeow me mew meooooooow. Me mew meooow mew me

usually successful in sustaining her life, until the return of the family.
meoooow meeeeoooow me meeeeeeeow mew meow, meeow mew meeeow me mew meooow.

But it is very different with pussy, when she is entirely imprisoned in an
Mew me me meow meeeeeoow meow meeow, meow mew me meooooow meeoooooow me me

empty house, without either food or water, save perhaps an occasional
meoow meoow, meoooow meooow meow me meoow, meow meeooow me meeeooooow

mouse which chance may throw in her way.
meeow meeow meeeow mew meoow me mew mew.




I know of one unhappy cat that lived for three whole weeks, on dry
M meow me mew meeeeow mew meow meeow mew meoow meeow meoow, me mew

oat-meal alone.
mew-meow meoow.




Another instance I can just recall to memory, and I am sorry to say, it is
Meeeeow meeeeeow M mew meow meeoow me meeoow, mew M me meoow me mew, me me

only one of many thousands that are happening every day. In this case, the
meow mew me meow meeeeeoow meow mew meeeeooow meoow mew. Me meow meow, mew

family had gone to the country for a month, leaving Tabby--as
meooow mew meow me mew meeooow mew m meeow, meeeeow Meeow--me

affectionate a little cat as ever lived, and the constant pet and playmate
meeeeeooooow m meeoow mew me meow meoow, mew mew meooooow mew mew meooooow

of the young children--shut up in the house. The building was a new one;
me mew meeow meeoooow--meow me me mew meeow. Mew meooooow mew m mew mew;

there were consequently no mice; so, when the family at length returned,
meeow meow meeeeeeeeoow me meow; me, meow mew meeeow me meooow meeoooow,

almost the first thing that met their gaze was poor Tabby, lying stark and
meeoow mew meeow meeow meow mew meeow meow mew meow Meeow, meeow meeow mew

stiff on the parlour hearth. She was a perfect skeleton, while the
meeow me mew meeeoow meeoow. Mew mew m meeeoow meooooow, meeow mew

sardonic grin on her mouth showed how much she must have suffered. Such a
meooooow meow me mew meoow meeoow mew meow mew meow meow meeeeoow. Meow m

death, in that lonely house, almost makes one’s flesh creep to think of.
meoow, me meow meooow meeow, meeoow meeow mew’m meoow meeow me meoow me.




A still more shocking case of cruelty recently came to my knowledge, which
M meeow meow meeeeoow meow me meeeoow meeeooow meow me me meeeeooow, meoow

shows very forcibly how dreadful must be the sufferings of a starving cat,
meeow meow meeeeoow mew meeoooow meow me mew meeeooooow me m meeoooow mew,

and how great the sin of those who leave them thus to perish. In one of
mew mew meeow mew mew me meeow mew meeow meow meow me meeeow. Me mew me

the principal squares of the city of Edinburgh lives Mrs. Blank, a lady
mew meeeeeeow meoooow me mew meow me Meeeeooow meoow Mew. Meeow, m meow

who can carry a high head, in the best society of which the Scottish
mew mew meoow m meow meow, me mew meow meeooow me meoow mew Meeeeoow

metropolis can boast. She subscribes to all the charities, and feeds and
meeeooooow mew meeow. Mew meeeeoooow me mew mew meeeeooow, mew meeow mew

clothes the poor daily; of course she is only “lending to the Lord,” and
meeeoow mew meow meoow; me meooow mew me meow “meeeeow me mew Meow,” mew

expects the principal returned on or after the Day of Judgment, with very
meoooow mew meoooooow meooooow me me meeow mew Mew me Meeeeoow, meow meow

good interest. But that is neither here nor there. This lady had a cat, a
meow meeeeoow. Mew meow me meeooow meow mew meoow. Meow meow mew m mew, m

very fine one too, on which she lavished an unusual amount of affection;
meow meow mew mew, me meoow mew meeeeoow me meeooow meooow me meeeeeoow;

and this affection was amply reciprocated, for pussy cared for no one in
mew meow meeeoooow mew meeow meeeeeeeeoow, mew meoow meoow mew me mew me

the house but her mistress. But in process of time, Jenny had the
mew meoow mew mew meeeooow. Mew me meoooow me meow, Meoow mew mew

exceedingly bad taste to give birth to two pretty little kittens, and of
meeeeeeeeow mew meeow me meow meeow me mew meeoow meooow meoooow, mew me

course could not spare so much time as usual on her mistress’s lap. So,
meeeow meoow mew meeow me meow meow me meoow me mew meeeeeow’m mew. Me,

when the family had packed up, and were about to move into the country for
meow mew meeoow mew meooow me, mew meow meeow me meow meow mew meeeoow mew

the holiday, this lady gave the order to have “that horrid tiresome old
mew meeooow, meow meow meow mew meoow me meow “meow meooow meeeeoow mew

cat and kittens shut up in the house,” until her return. Pussy was shut up
mew mew meeeeow meow me me mew meoow,” meeow mew meeeow. Meeow mew meow me

accordingly. For a whole fortnight after, the people in the adjoining
meeooooooow. Mew m meoow meeeeeoow meeow, mew meeeow me mew meeeoooow

house were disturbed by melancholy cries, proceeding from the empty house,
meoow meow meeeeeoow me meeoooooow meeow, meeeooooow meow mew meoow meoow,

and, at last, unable to endure it any longer; the assistance of the police
mew, me meow, meeoow me meeeow me mew meooow; mew meeoooooow me mew meooow

was called, and an entrance effected through a back window. A most
mew meeeow, mew me meooooow meeeooow meeooow m meow meeoow. M meow

horrible sight met their view. Poor pussy, thin even to emaciation, lay
meeoooow meoow mew meoow meow. Meow meoow, meow meow me meeoooooow, mew

upon her bed in the corner, _nursing the heads of her two kittens_. She
meow mew mew me mew meeeow, meeoooow mew meeow me mew mew meooooow. Mew

had eaten their bodies. Fancy the sufferings that must have triumphed
mew meoow meoow meooow. Meoow mew meeeeeeoow meow meow meow meeeeeoow

over her motherly love. Not only, however, had she eaten the kittens; but,
meow mew meeoooow meow. Mew meow, meeeoow, mew mew meeow mew meeooow; mew,

rendered wild by the pangs of hunger, she had actually torn from her own
meooooow meow me mew meeow me meeeow, mew mew meeeooow meow meow mew mew

thigh a large piece of flesh, and devoured it. It is a wonderful instance
meeow m meeow meoow me meoow, mew meooooow me. Me me m meeeeooow meeeooow

of the tenacity of life in cats, that this pussy, by careful nursing, made
me mew meeoooow me meow me meow, meow meow meoow, me meeeoow meeeeow, meow

a good recovery. She took up house with her kind preservers, but never
m meow meooooow. Mew meow me meoow meow mew meow meeeeeeeow, mew meeow

afterwards darkened the door of her cruel lady mistress. (_See Note N,
meeeooooow meeoooow mew meow me mew meoow meow meeeooow. (mEow Meow M,

Addenda._)
Meoooow.m)




The sagacity of the cat is very often beautifully shown, in the means she
Mew meeoooow me mew mew me meow meoow meeeoooooow meoow, me mew meoow mew

takes to provide for herself food and shelter, in the absence of her
meoow me meeooow mew meeooow meow mew meeooow, me mew meeeoow me mew

owners. On these occasions pussy has often been known to become a “beggar
meooow. Me meoow meeeeeeow meeow mew meeow meow meoow me meeeow m “meeoow

from door to door.” For example, one morning early, a workman,--Mr. D.
meow meow me meow.” Mew meeeeow, mew meeooow meeow, m meeeoow,--Me. M.

Stoddart, 92, Rose Street, Edinburgh,--on going to his work, observed a
Meeeeeow, me, Meow Meooow, Meeeeooow,--me meoow me mew meow, meooooow m

large black cat, trotting on before him, with tail erect and evidently on
meeow meoow mew, meeeooow me meooow mew, meow meow meoow mew meeeeeoow me

the best of terms with herself. Her good-humour, however, must have been
mew meow me meoow meow meoooow. Mew meow-meeoow, meeeoow, meow meow meow

simulated for the occasion, for she was very hungry indeed. Presently,
meeeeooow mew mew meeoooow, mew mew mew meow meeeow meeoow. Meoooooow,

she stopped and looking earnestly in the man’s face, all her happiness
mew meeooow mew meeeoow meeeeeeow me mew mew’m meow, mew mew meeooooow

seemed at once to forsake her and she mewed in a most pitiful manner. The
meooow me meow me meoooow mew mew mew meeow me m meow meoooow meeoow. Mew

good-hearted fellow at once opened his little napkin, and gave pussy part
meow-meeeeow meooow me meow meooow mew meeoow meeeow, mew meow meoow meow

of his dinner. He was rather surprised next morning, to meet the puss
me mew meeeow. Me mew meeoow meoooooow meow meoooow, me meow mew meow

exactly at the same time and place. In fact, the cat had adopted the
meeooow me mew meow meow mew meeow. Me meow, mew mew mew meeooow mew

working-man in a small way; and every morning regularly, for six months,
meeooow-mew me m meeow mew; mew meoow meeeoow meeeeeoow, mew mew meooow,

it met him and gratefully received its breakfast. After this, it used to
me mew mew mew meooooooow meooooow mew meeeoooow. Meeow meow, me meow me

walk along with him for some distance, singing a little song to him the
meow meoow meow mew mew meow meeeeeow, meeooow m meeoow meow me mew mew

while, then took her departure. One day, however, pussy was missed, and it
meoow, meow meow mew meeeoooow. Mew mew, meeooow, meeow mew meeeow, mew me

was a long time before anything else was heard of her. Some months after,
mew m meow meow meeoow meeeeeow meow mew meoow me mew. Meow meeeow meoow,

in passing a gentleman’s gate, in a different part of the town, who should
me meeeeow m meeeeeeow’m meow, me m meeeeooow meow me mew meow, mew meeeow

come out to bid him welcome, but his quondam friend and companion the cat.
meow mew me mew mew meoooow, mew mew meeeoow meooow mew meeeeeoow mew mew.

She was sleek and fat, and apparently happy as the sunshine. On making
Mew mew meeow mew mew, mew meeeeoooow meeow me mew meeeooow. Me meooow

inquiries, it afterwards transpired that during the six months that pussy
meeeeooow, me meeeooooow meeeeoooow meow meeoow mew mew meooow meow meeow

used to meet the working-man, the family were on the Continent.
meow me meow mew meeeoow-mew, mew meooow meow me mew Meeeeeeow.




So common a thing has cruelty towards the feline race become, that one can
Me meeoow m meeow mew meoooow meeooow mew meooow meow meeoow, meow mew mew

hardly take a walk along the streets, or into the country, without seeing
meeeow meow m meow meoow mew meeeeow, me meow mew meeeoow, meoooow meooow

the mangled body of some poor puss, which has been stoned, beaten to
mew meoooow meow me meow meow meow, meeow mew meow meeoow, meeeow me

death, or worried by dogs, more than likely in the open light of day.
meeow, me meoooow me meow, meow meow meooow me mew meow meeow me mew.

Indeed, a cat’s foes are so very numerous, that the only wonder is, how
Meeeow, m mew’m meow mew me meow meeeooow, meow mew meow meooow me, mew

she escapes with her life so often. Instead of nine lives, it would I
mew meeeoow meow mew meow me meoow. Meeeoow me meow meeow, me meoow M

think, be more convenient for her to have ninety and nine. Most common
meoow, me meow meeeooooow mew mew me meow meeeow mew meow. Meow meooow

among pussy’s numerous enemies may be mentioned,--
meoow meoow’m meeeeeow meeeoow mew me meeeeeeow,--




_Firstly, Gamekeepers._ It must certainly be very annoying to keepers, to
mEooooow, Meoooooooow.m Me meow meoooooow me meow meeeeoow me meeooow, me

have cats prowling indiscriminately among the preserves, destroying eggs,
meow meow meeeeoow meeeeeeoooooooow meeow mew meeeoooow, meeeeoooow meow,

birds, rabbits, and game of every description; but, after all, the amount
meeow, meoooow, mew meow me meeow meeooooooow; mew, meoow mew, mew meeeow

of injury done must be comparatively small; whereas the cruelties
me meooow meow meow me meeeeeeooooow meoow; meeooow mew meoooooow

practised on pussy by these men are at times quite revolting. To kill a
meeeoooow me meeow me meeow mew mew me meeow meoow meeooooow. Me meow m

cat by shooting her, may under some circumstances be deemed justifiable;
mew me meeeeoow mew, mew meoow meow meeooooooooow me meeoow meeooooooow;

but to wilfully lay traps for its destruction, in which the poor thing may
mew me meooooow mew meeow mew mew meeeeeeeoow, me meeow mew meow meeow mew

linger for days, before death ends its misery, is surely far from humane.
meooow mew meow, meeeow meeow meow mew meooow, me meooow mew meow meooow.

Even after pussy is relieved from the trap, it is, in most cases, only to
Meow meoow meeow me meeeeeow meow mew meow, me me, me meow meoow, meow me

have her brains dashed out against the nearest tree, or to have her tail
meow mew meeoow meeeow mew meeeeow mew meeooow meow, me me meow mew meow

cut off, and her body left to die on the ground.
mew mew, mew mew meow meow me mew me mew meooow.




_Secondly, Street-boys._ Seldom can a boy see a cat anywhere, on the
mEoooooow, Meooow-meow.m Meeoow mew m mew mew m mew meooooow, me mew

street or at large, without lifting the nearest stone to shy at her. And
meooow me me meoow, meoooow meeeeow mew meeeeow meoow me mew me mew. Mew

not boys only, but even grown-up men, have I heard boasting of their vile
mew meow meow, mew meow meeow-me mew, meow M meeow meeeeoow me meeow meow

exploits in cat-killing.
meeeeoow me mew-meeeoow.




_Thirdly, Men with dogs._ “The only way I like to see a cat,” said a
mEeeeeow, Mew meow meow.m “Mew meow mew M meow me mew m mew,” meow m

gentleman to me the other day, “is with a dog at her heels;” and, I’m
meeeeeoow me me mew meoow mew, “me meow m mew me mew meeow;” mew, M’m

sorry to say, such sentiments are far from unfrequent. I know, indeed, it
meeow me mew, meow meeoooooow mew mew meow meeeeeeeow. M meow, meeoow, me

is an usual thing for young men to go out of an evening with
me me meeow meeow mew meoow mew me me mew me me meeeeow meow

dogs--generally bull-and-terriers--for the express purpose, of slipping
meow--meeooooow meow-mew-meeeeoow--mew mew meoooow meoooow, me meeeooow

them at the first cat that chance throws in their way. In these cases any
meow me mew meoow mew meow meeeow meooow me meoow mew. Me meeow meoow mew

hope of escaping with her life, is for the poor cat very small indeed,
meow me meeeeeow meow mew meow, me mew mew meow mew meow meoow meeeow,

unless under very exceptional circumstances.
meeeow meeow meow meeeeooooow meeeeeeooooow.




The other day, a friend of mine, who isn’t very soft-hearted, was taking a
Mew meoow mew, m meeeow me meow, mew mew’m meow meow-meoooow, mew meooow m

walk in the suburbs of Manchester, with a bull-terrier dog and a bitch of
meow me mew meoooow me Meeeeeeoow, meow m meow-meeooow mew mew m meoow me

the same breed--both champion prize-takers, by the way. A cat was started,
mew meow meoow--meow meeeeeow meoow-meeeow, me mew mew. M mew mew meeooow,

and pussy made directly for the door of her master’s house. Both the back
mew meeow meow meeeeeow mew mew meow me mew meeeow’m meeow. Meow mew meow

and front doors were open. The cat darted in by the back, closely followed
mew meoow meoow meow meow. Mew mew meooow me me mew meow, meeeoow meeeeoow

by the dog; while, as if to cut off all chance of escape, the bitch rushed
me mew mew; meoow, me me me mew mew mew meeoow me meooow, mew meoow meooow

round and entered by the front. The family were just at breakfast, when
meeow mew meeooow me mew meeow. Mew meeoow meow meow me meoooooow, meow

pussy sprang on the table, attacked simultaneously in front and rear by
meeow meooow me mew meoow, meooooow meeeeeeeeeeeow me meoow mew meow me

her canine foes. They literally _tore her in two_ across the table, and
mew meeoow meow. Meow meeooooow meeow mew me meow meeeow mew meoow, mew

before her owner’s eyes. Of course the damage done to the crockery, was
meeeow mew meoow’m meow. Me meeeow mew meeoow meow me mew meeeeeow, mew

something very considerable, and my friend had to pay five guineas to hush
meeeeeoow meow meeeeoooooow, mew me meooow mew me mew meow meeeoow me meow

the matter up; and “Serve you right,” I remarked when he told me. (_See
mew meeoow me; mew “Meeow mew meoow,” M meeeeeow meow me meow me. (mEow

Note O, Addenda._)
Meow M, Meeooow.m)




And _fourthly, Cat-skin Collectors_. In nearly every large town in the
Mew meoooooow, Mew-meow Meeeeeeeeow. Me meooow meoow meoow meow me mew

kingdom, there actually exist parties who make a living by buying cats
meoooow, meeow meeeooow meeow meeooow mew meow m meooow me meeoow meow

for the sake of their hides. They of course have to pay a pretty large
mew mew meow me meoow meoow. Meow me meeoow meow me mew m meeoow meeow

price for a good skin; and this in its turn gives rise to another branch
meeow mew m meow meow; mew meow me mew meow meeow meow me meeooow meooow

of industry, namely, cat-hunting. The cat-hunter is lower in the social
me meeoooow, meooow, mew-meoooow. Mew mew-meooow me meoow me mew meeeow

scale, and much more cruel and hardened, than even the bird-catcher. The
meeow, mew meow meow meeow mew meeeeoow, meow meow mew meow-meoooow. Mew

occupation seems to be thoroughly demoralizing; and its followers live in
meeeeeeeow meoow me me meeeeeeoow meeeeeooooow; mew mew meeooooow meow me

the most squalid dens and infamous purlieus of the city, leading an idle,
mew meow meeeeow meow mew meeeeeow meeeeoow me mew meow, meeeeow me meow,

dissipated life; and, if not dead of disease before the age of
meeeeoooow meow; mew, me mew meow me meeooow meeeow mew mew me

twenty-five, it is because a grateful country has provided them with board
meooow-meow, me me meeooow m meeoooow meeeoow mew meeeeoow meow meow meoow

and lodging free, at stony Portland or muddy Chatham.
mew meeooow meow, me meoow Meeeooow me meeow Meoooow.




Chance took me, not long since, to a beautiful rural district in one of
Meeoow meow me, mew meow meeow, me m meeeeooow meoow meeeeeow me mew me

the southern counties of Ireland. Paddy Taffy, as he was called, from, as
mew meeeeoow meeeeoow me Meeooow. Meoow Meoow, me me mew meeoow, meow, me

he himself expressed it, his “mother being a Welshman, and his father
me meeooow meoooooow me, mew “meeoow meeow m Meeoooow, mew mew meooow

Irish,” was a farmer’s lad, and used to bring me the most beautiful
Meoow,” mew m meeoow’m mew, mew meow me meeow me mew meow meoooooow

butter-milk, and the freshest of duck eggs every morning, as certain as
meeeow-meow, mew mew meeoooow me meow meow meeow meeeoow, me meoooow me

sunrise. He was just the right boy in the right place; he knew every
meeeeow. Me mew meow mew meoow mew me mew meeow meeow; me meow meoow

rock, and bog, and corrie in the parish, besides all the most frequented
meow, mew mew, mew meeoow me mew meooow, meeooow mew mew meow meooooooow

rabbit hills, and the pools where the fish were never shy. He was always
meeoow meeow, mew mew meoow meoow mew meow meow meoow mew. Me mew meeeow

catering for fun for me, and was never so happy as when he had found me a
meeeeeow mew mew mew me, mew mew meoow me meoow me meow me mew meoow me m

new pleasure. Well, one day, Paddy Taffy comes to me with the eggs and
mew meeoooow. Meow, mew mew, Meoow Meeow meeow me me meow mew meow mew

butter-milk as usual; and, grinning like a grampus, “Augh! sir,” says he,
meooow-meow me meeow; mew, meeoooow meow m meeeeow, “Meow! mew,” meow me,

“but it’s the raal bit of fun yer honour will be having this blessed
“mew me’m mew meow mew me mew mew meooow meow me meeeow meow meeeeow

morning, if you’ll only be after coming to the river with Taffy.”
meeooow, me mew’me meow me meeow meeoow me mew meeow meow Meeow.”




“And I will that, Paddy,” says I; for I had nothing better to do.
“Mew M meow meow, Meoow,” meow M; mew M mew meeeoow meooow me me.




“I’ll go home first though,” says he, “and then meet you at the side of
“M’me me meow meeow meeoow,” meow me, “mew meow meow mew me mew meow me

the strame.”
mew meeoow.”




A walk of two miles over the hills took me to the place of appointment. I
M meow me mew meeow meow mew meeow meow me me mew meeow me meeooooooow. M

forgot to say, that Paddy was never unaccompanied by two dogs, one a very
meooow me mew, meow Meeow mew meeow meeeoooooooow me mew meow, mew m meow

decent well-bred water spaniel, the other a funny-looking frolicsome imp
meooow meow-meow meeow meoooow, mew meoow m meeow-meeooow meeeeeeoow mew

of a colley. On this day, when I met him, he had the dogs as usual, and
me m meeoow. Me meow mew, meow M mew mew, me mew mew meow me meoow, mew

moreover, what in all the world should he be carrying under his arm, but
meeeooow, meow me mew mew meeow meeeow me me meeeooow meoow mew mew, mew

a butter-tub. Before I had time to inquire the use of the singular
m meeeow-mew. Meeoow M mew meow me meeooow mew mew me mew meeeooow

utensil--singular under the circumstances,--
meoooow--meeeeoow meoow mew meeeeeeeeeoow,--




“It’s meself,” says Paddy, “that’s glad you’ve come, and by the same
“Me’m meooow,” meow Meeow, “meow’m meow mew’me meow, mew me mew meow

token, yonder come the boys with the cat.”
meeow, meeeow meow mew meow meow mew mew.”




On looking round, sure enough, there were three more boys--of course
Me meeeeow meeow, meow meooow, meoow meow meoow meow meow--me meeoow

“boys” is a mere figure of speech, they were all, including Paddy himself,
“meow” me m meow meeeow me meeoow, meow meow mew, meeeeooow Meeow meeeoow,

grown-up men--with three more dogs, one of which, a large white-and-black
meoow-me mew--meow meeow meow meow, mew me meoow, m meoow meoow-mew-meeow

Newfoundland, carried a basket in his teeth. Suspecting that some scene of
Meeeeeeeeoow, meeooow m meeoow me mew meeow. Meeeeeeoow meow meow meeow me

mischief or cruelty was to be enacted, I asked Paddy to tell me, right
meooooow me meoooow mew me me meoooow, M meoow Meeow me meow me, meoow

straight away, what the game was to be. “Sure your honour,” said he, “it’s
meeeeoow meow, meow mew meow mew me me. “Meow meow meeoow,” meow me, “me’m

only this:--we put the cat in the tub, and float her down the strame, and
meow meow:--me mew mew mew me mew mew, mew meoow mew meow mew meooow, mew

send the dogs ahint her.”
meow mew meow meeow mew.”




It was in vain that I tried to persuade Paddy to give up a scheme which
Me mew me meow meow M meoow me meeeooow Meeow me meow me m meooow meoow

seemed to me little short of diabolical; for I fully expected to see poor
meeoow me me meeoow meeow me meeeeeeoow; mew M meoow meeoooow me mew meow

pussy torn limb from limb in the water. Paddy’s reasoning was something
meeow meow meow meow meow me mew meeow. Meoow’m meeeoooow mew meeeeeoow

after the following fashion:--
meoow mew meeeoooow meeeoow:--




“If it’s the dogs you’re afraid of, sir, sure enough they’ll deserve all
“Me me’m mew meow mew’me meeeow me, mew, meow meeeow meow’me meoooow mew

they’ll get, and more; if it’s the cat, then you needn’t be afraid at all,
meow’me mew, mew meow; me me’m mew mew, meow mew meoow’m me meooow me mew,

she’s been three times at it before. Och! she’s the raal taring
mew’m meow meoow meeow me me meooow. Mew! mew’m mew meow meooow

blood-and-wounding captain of the butter-boat; besides, she has kittens at
meeow-mew-meeeooow meeeeow me mew meooow-meow; meoooow, mew mew meeeoow me

home, and that makes her the devil himself, sure. Moreover, sir,”--here he
meow, mew meow meoow mew mew meoow meoooow, meow. Meooooow, mew,”--meow me

lowered his voice; “the boys is ugly boys, and they’ve ugly bits of timber
meeooow mew meeow; “mew meow me meow meow, mew meow’me meow meow me meeeow

below their flippers, and they wouldn’t let us spoil the sport for the
meoow meeow meeeeeow, mew meow meooow’m mew me meeow mew meoow mew mew

dear life itself.”
meow meow meooow.”




So, making a virtue of necessity, I stopped to see the fun and fair play.
Me, meooow m meeeow me meeeeooow, M meeooow me mew mew mew mew meow meow.




The river here was broad, and still, and deep. The basket was taken from
Mew meeow meow mew meeow, mew meoow, mew meow. Mew meeoow mew meoow meow

the Newfoundland, and all the dogs were led out of sight behind an
mew Meeeeeeeeeow, mew mew mew meow meow mew mew me meoow meeoow me

adjoining hillock. Then the cat--a wild-looking tortoise-shell--was taken
meeooooow meeeeow. Meow mew mew--m meow-meeeoow meooooow-meoow--mew meoow

out, placed in the tub, and the tub shoved well off into the stream. Away
mew, meeeow me mew mew, mew mew mew meeoow meow mew meow mew meooow. Meow

went puss with the current, whirling round and round in her awkward boat,
meow meow meow mew meeeoow, meeeeeow meoow mew meeow me mew meeeoow meow,

and looking anything but happy, for she evidently knew all about it. Then
mew meoooow meooooow mew meeow, mew mew meeeeeoow meow mew meeow me. Meow

a shout from the boys; and down rushed the dogs helter-skelter, taking the
m meoow meow mew meow; mew meow meeoow mew meow meeoow-meeeeow, meeeow mew

water in grand style, the spaniel first, the Newfoundland following,
meeow me meeow meeow, mew meoooow meoow, mew Meeeeoooooow meeeeooow,

springing right on top of the foremost dog, and sinking him by way of a
meeeeeoow meoow me mew me mew meooooow mew, mew meeeeow mew me mew me m

lark. Up they all swam to the tub, which was still whirling slowly down
meow. Me meow mew meow me mew mew, meoow mew meoow meeeeeow meooow meow

stream; but puss was all ready, and stood by cleverly to repel boarders,
meeeow; mew meow mew mew meeow, mew meeow me meeeeoow me meeow meooooow,

evidently determined to sell her nine lives dearly. The spaniel was the
meoooooow meeeooooow me meow mew meow meeow meooow. Mew meeooow mew mew

first to place a paw on the tub; and his nose was at once laid open in
meeow me meoow m mew me mew mew; mew mew meow mew me meow meow meow me

consequence. The colley followed suit, and sung small immediately after.
meoooooooow. Mew meeoow meeoooow meow, mew meow meoow meeeoooooow meoow.

The other dogs had no better success; for each in his turn, and sometimes
Mew meeow meow mew me meeeow meoooow; mew meow me mew meow, mew meoooooow

two at a time, were wounded, and had to haul off and lie too. _Tableaux_:
mew me m meow, meow meoooow, mew mew me meow mew mew mew mew. mEeeeeeoow:

four defeated curs, paddling harmlessly round the tub, barking futilely;
meow meeoooow meow, meeeeeow meeeeeooow meeow mew mew, meeooow meeeeoow;

puss erect and frizzly, with one paw impressively uplifted, growling
meow meeow mew meoooow, meow mew mew meeeeoooooow meooooow, meeeooow

defiance at the lot. All this time, the big Newfoundland had been swimming
meooooow me mew mew. Mew meow meow, mew mew Meeoooooooow mew meow meooooow

about, taking apparently no notice of the unequal contest. Now, however,
meoow, meeeow meeeeoooow me meooow me mew meoooow meeooow. Mew, meeeeow,

he seemed to think the state of affairs justified his interference, in
me meeeow me meoow mew meeow me meeeeow meeeeeeow mew meeeeeooooow, me

order to uphold the prestige of the canine race. Poor dog, he at least had
meoow me meeeow mew meooooow me mew meeeow meow. Meow mew, me me meoow mew

no intention of killing the cat; but only thought of hauling her, tub and
me meoooooow me meeeeow mew mew; mew meow meoooow me meoooow mew, mew mew

all, safely in shore. With this kind intention, and in that thoroughly
mew, meeeow me meoow. Meow meow meow meeeeeoow, mew me meow meeeeoooow

business-like manner only to be seen in dogs of his class, he paddled
meeeeeow-meow meeoow meow me me meow me meow me mew meoow, me meoooow

directly up to the vessel, and seizing it by the rim almost lifted it out
meeoooow me me mew meooow, mew meeeoow me me mew mew meeeow meooow me mew

of the water, as he put about with tail hard a-port to swim to land. Sharp
me mew meoow, me me mew meoow meow meow meow m-meow me meow me meow. Meeow

and condign was the punishment Captain Puss administered to that dog’s
mew meoooow mew mew meooooooow Meeeeow Meow meeeeeeoooow me meow mew’m

nose, for his unasked-for aid. Nelson dropped the tub like a red-hot shot;
meow, mew mew meeeeow-mew mew. Meooow meeeeow mew mew meow m mew-mew meow;

and with a howl of injured innocence, wheeled round and set out for land
mew meow m meow me meeeoow meoooooow, meeeeow meeow mew mew mew mew meow

in disgust. But puss had no idea of letting him off like this; for the
me meeooow. Mew meow mew me meow me meeeeow mew mew meow meow; mew mew

vessel, rather leaky at the best, had been filling for some time and was
meooow, meooow meoow me mew meow, mew meow meeeeow mew meow meow mew mew

fast settling down; and pussy saw at a glance it must be abandoned. Then
meow meooooow meow; mew meeow mew me m meeoow me meow me meeeoooow. Meow

what better refuge, than to make a life-boat of that Newfoundland’s head
meow meooow meeeow, meow me meow m meow-meow me meow Meeeooooooow’m meow

and shoulders? They just seemed cut out for it, so she didn’t think twice
mew meeeeeoow? Meow meow meeoow mew mew mew me, me mew meow’m meeow meoow

about it, but at once made the spring. If poor Nelson swam quick before,
meoow me, mew me meow meow mew meeoow. Me meow Meooow meow meeow meooow,

he now seemed to cleave the water like a new-born steam-boat. Pussy,
me mew meeoow me meooow mew meoow meow m mew-meow meoow-meow. Meoow,

however, had no intention of letting him land with her, being doubtful as
meoooow, mew me meeeoooow me meoooow mew meow meow mew, meoow meeoooow me

to the consequences; accordingly, when only a few feet more of water had
me mew meeeeeeoooow; meeeeeeeoow, meow meow m mew meow meow me meoow mew

to be passed, with one good parting kick, she sprang nimbly to bank, and
me me meooow, meow mew meow meeooow meow, mew meeoow meeoow me meow, mew

made off for the woods as fast as four legs could carry her. The dogs all
meow mew mew mew meeow me meow me meow meow meeow meeow mew. Mew meow mew

looked very foolish; and presently, like true Paddies, they all fell foul
meeoow meow meoooow; mew meeeeooow, meow meow Meeeoow, meow mew meow meow

of each other, and fought in the water and out of the water, to their
me meow meoow, mew meooow me mew meeow mew mew me mew meoow, me meoow

heart’s content. (_See Note P, Addenda._) On the whole, I think pussy had
meoow’m meeooow. (mEow Meow M, Meeooow.m) Me mew meoow, M meeow meoow mew

the best of it.
mew meow me me.













CHAPTER VI.
MEEEOOW ME.




PARLIAMENTARY PROTECTION FOR THE DOMESTIC CAT.
MEEEEEEEEEOOW MEEEEEEOOW MEW MEW MEEEEEOW MEW.







Now, after reading the chapter on cruelty to cats, surely every honest man
Mew, meoow meoooow mew meeeoow me meeeoow me meow, meeoow meeow meeoow mew

and kind-hearted lady in the land will agree with me in thinking, that it
mew meow-meoooow meow me mew meow meow meoow meow me me meeeeoow, meow me

is high time our Legislature should do something to put an end to the
me meow meow mew Meeeeeeooow meeeow me meoooooow me mew me mew me mew

persecutions against, and to protect, our very useful pet pussy. Laws have
meeoooooooow meeeeow, mew me meeooow, mew meow meooow mew meoow. Meow meow

been framed for the good of horses, dogs, and game; nay, even the very
meow meeeow mew mew meow me meeeow, meow, mew meow; mew, meow mew meow

wild birds of the field have their friends in Parliament; but the poor cat
meow meeow me mew meeow meow meoow meeeeow me Meooooooow; mew mew meow mew

is left out in the cold.
me meow mew me mew meow.




In the columns of a paper called _The Bazaar_, a few months ago, a
Me mew meeeeow me m meeow meeeow mEow Meeeeow, m mew meooow mew, m

correspondence was kept up for several weeks on the subject of “Cat
meeeeeeeeeeeow mew meow me mew meoooow meoow me mew meeeeow me “Mew

Extermination.” No doubt it is highly annoying to have one’s beautiful
Meeeeeeooooow.” Me meoow me me meeeow meeeeeow me meow mew’m meeooooow

flower-beds torn up, and one’s pet pigeons and rabbits worried at night by
meeeow-meow meow me, mew mew’m mew meeooow mew meeeoow meeooow me meoow me

prowling cats. But the methods proposed for their destruction were in
meeeooow meow. Mew mew meoooow meooooow mew meeow meeeeeoooow meow me

some cases diabolical. Poison of all sorts was to be freely used, and
meow meoow meeeeoooow. Meeoow me mew meoow mew me me meeoow meow, mew

sponges dipped in tallow--worse torture than giving a shark a red-hot
meoooow meeoow me meeeow--meeow meeooow meow meooow m meeow m mew-mew

brick, or a lady’s steel crinoline fastened up with hide--and wire fences,
meoow, me m meow’m meeow meoooooow meeeeeow me meow meow--mew meow meeeow,

so constructed that the cat might find easy access into a garden, but no
me meeeeeeeoow meow mew mew meeow meow meow meeeow meow m meeeow, mew me

egress, and so be torn to pieces with dogs,
meooow, mew me me meow me meeoow meow meow,




  “With mair o’ horrible and awfu’,
  “Meow meow m’ meooooow mew meow’,

   Which e’en to name would be unlawfu’.”
   Meoow m’me me meow meeow me meoooow’.”




But I would fain enlist even these men on pussy’s side; not certainly for
Mew M meoow meow meeoow meow meeow mew me meoow’m meow; mew meeeoooow mew

sake of the cats, but for their own comfort; for no good--unless the
meow me mew meow, mew mew meeow mew meeeoow; mew me meow--meooow mew

gratification of a feeling of revenge--can accrue from attempts at
meeeeeeeeeeow me m meeeeow me meoooow--mew meeeow meow meeeeeow me

extermination, and only from legislation can they hope to get redress. You
meeeoooooooow, mew meow meow meoooooooow mew meow meow me mew meeooow. Mew

may exterminate the Modoc Indians, extirpate the Maories, and annihilate
mew meeeoooooow mew Meoow Meoooow, meeeeeoow mew Meoooow, mew meooooooow

the Ashantees, but you’ll have no chance against the cats. Now, I should
mew Meeeeeeow, mew mew’me meow me meeeow meeooow mew meow. Mew, M meeeow

ask, nay, claim, parliamentary protection for our domestic cat, for many
mew, mew, meoow, meeeeeeeeooow meooooooow mew mew meeoooow mew, mew meow

reasons. Here I shall only mention one or two. First then, because she is
meeooow. Meow M meoow meow meeeoow mew me mew. Meeow meow, meeooow mew me

a _pet_--a pet in many a nobleman’s and gentleman’s family, and still
m meeow--m mew me meow m meeeooow’m mew meeeeooow’m meooow, mew meeow

more so at many a poor man’s fireside, who cannot afford to maintain any
meow me me meow m meow mew’m meeeeeow, mew meooow meeoow me meeeeoow mew

larger domestic animal; and because pussy is so _beautiful_, so _gentle_,
meeoow meeoooow meooow; mew meoooow meoow me me meeeeeeeoow, me meeoooow,

_loving_, and _kind_, and capable of such high training; because she is so
meooooow, mew meooow, mew meeeoow me meow meow meeeooow; meoooow mew me me

affectionate towards her owner; and because _she loves the children so_.
meeeeeeeeeow meoooow mew meeow; mew meoooow meow meeow mew meooooow mew.

She is, indeed, the pet _par excellence_ of babyhood and infancy.
Mew me, meeeow, mew mew meow meeeeeeeeow me meeeooow mew meoooow.

Secondly, because we are Christians, or live in a Christian land; and
Meooooow, meoooow me mew Meeoooooow, me meow me m Meeeeeoow meow; mew

because the cruelties that are practised every day in our midst, against
meeooow mew meeeeooow meow mew meeeeeeow meoow mew me mew meeow, meeooow

this defenceless creature are harrowing to all our feelings, and a
meow meeeeooooow meeeeoow mew meeeeeoow me mew mew meeeeoow, mew m

disgrace to a civilized country.
meeeeoow me m meeeeooow meoooow.




Thirdly, and lastly _at present_, because the cat is an animal of great
Meoooow, mew meeoow mew meeeooow, meeeeow mew mew me me meeoow me meeow

utility.
meeooow.




Putting aside, then, all sentimentality, let us look at the matter in a
Meoooow meeow, meow, mew meeeeeeeeoooow, mew me meow me mew meeeow me m

plain business point of view.
meeow meooooow meeow me meow.




We ought to do all in our power for the protection and improvement, of
Me meoow me me mew me mew meeow mew mew meeeeoooow mew meeeeooooow, me

every domesticated animal under our care, whether kept for use or
meeow meeoooooooow meeoow meoow mew meow, meeooow meow mew mew me

ornament; no one will think of denying that. But, there is no creature
meeeeoow; me mew meow meeow me meeeeow meow. Mew, meoow me me meeoooow

under the sun which is so systematically ill-used, and carelessly treated
meeow mew mew meoow me me meeeeeeeeeeeow mew-meow, mew meeeeeooow meeeoow

as pussy. The cause is easily understood: we do not thoroughly appreciate
me meoow. Mew meoow me meeeow meeeeeooow: me me mew meeeeeeeow meeeeoooow

the good the cat does, and, even if we do, being all naturally selfish, we
mew meow mew mew meow, mew, meow me me me, meeow mew meeooooow meeeeow, me

like to have and hold all we can, for the least possible outlay and
meow me meow mew meow mew me mew, mew mew meeow meeoooow meeeow mew

trouble. Thus, pussy’s services are poorly repaid and ungratefully
meoooow. Meow, meeow’m meeeeeow mew meooow meeoow mew meooooooooow

received, because she is so patient and uncomplaining. If horses or other
meeeeeow, meeeeow mew me me meeeoow mew meeeeooooooow. Me meeeow me meeow

cattle were treated in like manner, they would quickly deteriorate in
meooow meow meeooow me meow meooow, meow meeow meeooow meeeeooooow me

value; but the cat, looked upon as a mere vermin-killer, is different, her
meoow; mew mew mew, meeeow meow me m meow meeeow-meooow, me meeeeeoow, mew

presence alone, however skinny and lean, being generally enough to
meooooow meeow, meoooow meeoow mew meow, meoow meeeeeeow meooow me

frighten away those pests, rats and mice. Indeed, very few of us, I fear,
meeeeoow meow meeow meoow, meow mew meow. Meeoow, meow mew me me, M meow,

fully appreciate the amount of real good done, or the large amount of
meeow meeeeeeeow mew meeoow me meow meow meow, me mew meoow meeoow me

valuable property saved annually--in a preventive way alone--by cats. More
meeeeoow meooooow meeow meeeooow--me m meooooooow mew meoow--me meow. Meow

quickly than almost any other animal, do rats and mice multiply. Take the
meeeoow meow meooow mew meeow meooow, me meow mew meow meeeeeow. Meow mew

field-mouse for example (the _mus leacopus_ or the _mus sylvaticus_), with
meoow-meeow mew meeeoow (mew meow meeeoooow me mew meow meeeeeeeeow), meow

the nests of which nearly every school-boy is familiar,--
mew meoow me meoow meeeow meeow meeeow-mew me meeeeeow,--




  “Those wee bit heaps o’ straw and stubble,
  “Meeow mew mew meoow m’ meoow mew meoooow,

   That cost them mony a weary nibble.”
   Meow meow meow meow m meeow meeeow.”




These creatures breed at least four or five times a year; and you seldom
Meoow meeeeeeow meeow me meoow meow me meow meeow m meow; mew mew meeoow

find fewer than seven little baby-mice in each nest. The mischief these
meow meeow meow meeow meooow meow-meow me meow meow. Mew meeoooow meeow

creatures sometimes work in grass fields, and in fields of newly-sown
meeeeeoow meoooooow meow me meoow meeeow, mew me meooow me meoow-meow

grain, is almost incalculable. Whole acres have been known to be destroyed
meeow, me meeoow meeeeeeoooow. Meoow meeow meow meow meeow me me meeeeooow

in a single night. Cats are the greatest enemies these creatures have:
me m meeoow meoow. Meow mew mew meeeooow meeeoow meoow meeooooow meow:

they destroy them young and old, by the dozen, for mere sport--they seldom
meow meeooow meow meeow mew mew, me mew meoow, mew meow meeow--meow meooow

care to eat them.
meow me mew meow.




In-doors, again, what would the baker, the miller, the draper, the grocer,
Me-meoow, meoow, meow meoow mew meeow, mew meeoow, mew meooow, mew meooow,

or even the bookseller do, without his cat?
me meow mew meeeeeeeow me, meoooow mew mew?




There is no prettier ornament, I think, a shop-window can have, than an
Meeow me me meooooow meooooow, M meeow, m meow-meeoow mew meow, meow me

honest-looking sleek Tom tabby.
meooow-meeeoow meoow Mew meeow.




“Yes, sir,” a hosier said to me the other day; “I do like my cat. I shan’t
“Mew, mew,” m meeeow meow me me mew meeow mew; “M me meow me mew. M meow’m

tell you, because you could not be expected to believe it, not being a
meow mew, meeeoow mew meoow mew me meeeeoow me meeeoow me, mew meeow m

business man, how much money I lost two years ago in one winter, by rats
meeoooow mew, mew meow meoow M meow mew meoow mew me mew meooow, me meow

alone. I tried everything, traps and poison, in vain, and was forced to
meoow. M meeow meeeeeeeow, meeow mew meeeow, me meow, mew mew meooow me

fall back on pussy after all.”
meow meow me meoow meoow mew.”




A Scotch miller, plagued with rats, and hearing that music would frighten
M Meeoow meeeow, meoooow meow meow, mew meoooow meow meeow meeow meeeeeow

them away, hired a couple of Highland bag-pipers to play in the mill for
meow meow, meoow m meooow me Meeeeoow mew-meeoow me meow me mew meow mew

two whole nights. (_See Note Q, Addenda._)
mew meoow meeeow. (mEow Meow M, Meeeoow.m)




“Of course,” he said, “the lads and lasses gathered from every corner, and
“Me meeeow,” me meow, “mew meow mew meeoow meeoooow meow meoow meeoow, mew

it cost me oceans o’ whisky; but those rats kent good music, I verily
me meow me meooow m’ meeeow; mew meoow meow meow meow meoow, M meeoow

believe they danced to it. So, failing that, I got twa kittens; and three
meeeeow meow meeeow me me. Me, meeeoow meow, M mew mew meeeoow; mew meeow

weeks after, I hadn’t a rat about the place.”
meoow meeow, M meow’m m mew meeow mew meoow.”




But looking at the matter statistically: it is the very lowest average to
Mew meeeoow me mew meeeow meeeoooooooow: me me mew meow meeeow meoooow me

say that every cat in this country does away with twenty mice or rats per
mew meow meoow mew me meow meeeoow meow meow meow meeoow meow me meow mew

annum; and, also, on the lowest average, each mouse or rat will destroy
meoow; mew, meow, me mew meeeow meoooow, meow meoow me mew meow meoooow

one pound’s worth of property a year. Well, there are, in the British
mew meoow’m meoow me meeoooow m meow. Meow, meeow mew, me mew Meeeeow

Islands, over 4,000,000 cats; that, multiplied by 20, gives an annual
Meoooow, meow m,mew,mew meow; meow, meeeeeooow me me, meoow me meooow

saving of £80,000,000 worth of property; and those cats do not take
meeeow me £me,mew,mew meeow me meooooow; mew meoow meow me mew meow

£4,000,000 to keep them alive, not more--at any rate.
£m,mew,mew me meow meow meoow, mew meow--me mew meow.




Surely, then, so useful a friend to man ought to be protected by law.
Meeoow, meow, me meeoow m meeeow me mew meoow me me meeeeooow me mew.

Until, however, the Legislature deems it fit to do something for her, I
Meoow, meoooow, mew Meeeeeeooow meoow me mew me me meeeeeoow mew mew, M

think it behoves the public in general, and owners of pets and
meoow me meoooow mew meeoow me meeooow, mew meeoow me meow mew

cat-fanciers in particular, to do everything they can to check cruelty to
mew-meeeeeow me meeoooooow, me me meeoooooow meow mew me meoow meeeeow me

cats, and try to make her life a more comfortable and endurable one. Pussy
meow, mew mew me meow mew meow m meow meeeeeeooow mew meoooooow mew. Meoow

is very easily kept, and I would, in the name of common humanity,
me meow meooow meow, mew M meoow, me mew meow me meooow meeoooow,

earnestly beseech my readers to try the effect of kindness and regular
meeeoooow meoooow me meeeoow me mew mew meeeow me meeeeeow mew meeooow

feeding on the cats they may own, and see how soon it will amply repay
meeeeow me mew meow meow mew mew, mew mew mew meow me meow meeow meoow

them.
meow.




_Cat shows_ ought to receive more encouragement than they do at present.
mEow meeeow meoow me meoooow meow meoooooooooow meow meow me me meeeoow.

Nothing can be better calculated both to foster a love for these beautiful
Meeeoow mew me meooow meeeeeeoow meow me meooow m meow mew meoow meeeeeoow

creatures, and increase and perfect the different breeds, than those
meeeeooow, mew meeoooow mew meeeoow mew meoooooow meooow, meow meeow

interesting exhibitions. At present, only a very few of our leading
meeooooooow meeeeeeooow. Me meoooow, meow m meow mew me mew meeooow

aristocracy, and gentry patronize cat shows. But they are every day
meeeeooooow, mew meeeow meoooooow mew meoow. Mew meow mew meeow mew

becoming more and more popular. Birmingham has emulated the Crystal
meooooow meow mew meow meoooow. Meooooooow mew meooooow mew Meoooow

Palace, and Edinburgh rivals both; and, before very long, I hope to see
Meeeow, mew Meeeeeoow meooow meow; mew, meeeow meow meow, M meow me mew

every town, in the United Kingdom holding its annual show of cats.
meeow meow, me mew Meeeow Meeooow meeooow mew meeeow meow me meow.




Now, every one I have spoken to on the subject, admits that something
Mew, meoow mew M meow meeoow me me mew meeooow, meeeow meow meeeeeeow

ought to be done, by the Legislature, for the protection of the domestic
meoow me me meow, me mew Meeeeeeeeow, mew mew meeeeeooow me mew meeoooow

cat. The difficulty seems to be where to begin, and _what sort_ of laws to
mew. Mew meeoooooow meoow me me meoow me meoow, mew meeow meoow me meow me

frame. Begin, I say, by putting “a stout heart to a stay brae” (stiff
meeow. Meoow, M mew, me meoooow “m meeow meoow me m meow meow” (meeow

hill), and we are sure to do some good.
meow), mew me mew meow me me meow meow.




The following hints are merely meant to be suggestive, and by no means of
Mew meeeoooow meeow mew meeoow meoow me me meooooooow, mew me me meeow me

a _ne plus ultra_ character. Indeed, _I should feel much obliged to my
m mew meow meeeow meeeeeeow. Meooow, ME meooow meow meow meeooow me me

readers, if they would kindly forward to me, their views on this subject_.
meeeeow, me meow meoow meeoow meeeeow me me, meeow meoow me meow meeeeeow.




The law for the destruction of worthless dogs, found straying and begging
Mew mew mew mew meoooooooow me meeeoooow meow, meoow meeoooow mew meeeoow

in the streets, although at first blush it appeared a cruel one, was
me mew meoooow, meeoooow me meeow meoow me meeeooow m meoow mew, mew

really both humane and kind to the whole canine race. There were too many
meeoow meow meeeow mew meow me mew meeow meeoow meow. Meeow meow mew meow

useless curs without owners; and there are also Arab cats as well as Arab
meeeeow meow meeeoow meeeow; mew meoow mew meow Meow meow me meow me Meow

dogs--thousands on thousands, who never had a home and never will,
meow--meeeeeoow me meeeeeoow, mew meoow mew m meow mew meoow meow,

preferring a nomadic life, because they never knew a better. How can we
meeeeeeoow m meoooow meow, meeeoow meow meoow meow m meeoow. Mew mew me

get rid of this surplus feline population? I would introduce a _cat
mew mew me meow meoooow meooow meooooooow? M meeow meeeoooow m meow

licence_. This licence, of course, should cost a mere nominal sum, what
meeeeeow. Meow meeooow, me meooow, meeoow meow m meow meeeoow mew, meow

indeed even the poorest man who was able to afford food for a cat, could
meeeow meow mew meeooow mew mew mew meow me meeoow meow mew m mew, meeow

easily pay. The licences should be of two kinds, namely:--one for mere
meeeow mew. Mew meeeooow meeeow me me mew meeow, meooow:--mew mew meow

utility cats, and the other for valuable cats, household pets, etc. The
meoooow meow, mew mew meeow mew meeeeeow meow, meeeoooow meow, mew. Mew

first to cost one shilling and threepence, the other two shillings. A
meeow me meow mew meeeeeow mew meooooooow, mew meeow mew meeeeeeow. M

cat’s collar to be presented to the owner on payment of the fee; the
mew’m meooow me me meeeeeoow me mew meoow me meoooow me mew mew; mew

collar stamped and numbered. The shilling licence collar to be dark; the
meeeow meoooow mew meeeooow. Mew meeeeeow meeooow meeeow me me meow; mew

other of coloured material. In the event of a cat being wantonly killed, a
meoow me meeeeoow meooooow. Me mew meoow me m mew meoow meeeeeow meooow, m

fine to be inflicted, of not more than £5 for the first class, and £10 for
meow me me meeeeeoow, me mew meow meow £m mew mew meoow meoow, mew £me mew

the second class of licence. This would have a salutary effect in checking
mew meeoow meeow me meeeoow. Meow meeow meow m meeeeeow meeeow me meeeeeow

the present trade of cat-skin hunting.
mew meoooow meoow me mew-meow meoooow.




A place would be required in every town, or district, where all cats found
M meoow meoow me meeeooow me meeow meow, me meeeeoow, meoow mew meow meoow

straying without a collar could be taken, and if not claimed within three
meeeeeow meeeoow m meooow meoow me meoow, mew me mew meeooow meeoow meeow

or four days, to be either sold, given away, or destroyed. Cats found
me meow meow, me me meooow meow, meeow meow, me meeeeooow. Meow meeow

doing damage to gardens, poultry, rabbit warrens, or pigeon lofts, to be
meoow meooow me meoooow, meeeeow, meooow meoooow, me meooow meoow, me me

captured if possible, and the owners made to pay damages. All cases of
meeeooow me meeeeeow, mew mew meeeow meow me mew meeooow. Mew meeow me

cruelty to cats to be punished by fines, etc.
meeeeow me meow me me meeeeoow me meoow, mew.




Starving cats to be penal. I should have an inspector to visit every house
Meooooow meow me me meoow. M meooow meow me meeeeooow me meoow meeow meoow

once or twice a year, and see that the cats were in good condition. The
meow me meeow m meow, mew mew meow mew meow meow me meow meeeeeoow. Mew

revenue from this tax would be over £200,000 a year. I recommend it to the
meeeoow meow meow mew meeow me meow £mew,mew m meow. M meeeeeoow me me mew

attention of Mr. Lowe.
meoooooow me Me. Meow.




These are only a few crude suggestions, which may be very much improved
Meeow mew meow m mew meoow meeeeeoooow, meeow mew me meow meow meeeeeow

upon; one thing at least is certain, _the law ought to protect the
meow; mew meeow me meeow me meoooow, meow mew meeow me meoooow mew

domestic cat_.
meeeeoow meow.













CHAPTER VII.
MEOOOOW MEW.




FELINE AILMENTS.
MEOOOW MEEEOOOW.







Of course, in one chapter--and that is all my available space--it will be
Me meooow, me mew meoooow--mew meow me mew me meeeoooow meoow--me meow me

impossible to notice all, or even the greater part, of the evils that
meooooooow me meooow mew, me meow mew meeooow meow, me mew meoow meow

feline flesh is heir to. I will endeavour, however, to lay down a few
meeeow meeow me meow me. M meow meeeeooow, meeeoow, me mew meow m mew

simple rules for those who wish to keep their cats in health, and for
meeoow meoow mew meeow mew meow me meow meoow meow me meeeow, mew mew

their treatment in the most common diseases.
meeow meeooooow me mew meow meeoow meooooow.




Prevention is better than cure. I believe that is not an original remark;
Meeeeeooow me meeeow meow meow. M meeeoow meow me mew me meeeeoow meooow;

but it is nevertheless a very true one, as regards the ailments of the
mew me me meooooooooow m meow meow mew, me meeeoow mew meeeeeow me mew

domestic cat, almost all of which may be kept at bay by even ordinary
meeeooow mew, meooow mew me meoow mew me meow me mew me meow meeeeeow

attention. We all have a duty to perform to the animals under us, even to
meeeoooow. Me mew meow m meow me meoooow me mew meeeoow meoow me, meow me

animals of mere utility; and much more cheerfully ought that duty to be
meeeeow me meow meeooow; mew meow meow meeeeeooow meeow meow meow me me

performed, if the creature is kept for the beauty that pleases our eye, or
meeeoooow, me mew meeeeoow me meow mew mew meeeow meow meeeoow mew mew, me

for the love it loves us with. So long as your pet is in health, and
mew mew meow me meeow me meow. Me meow me meow mew me me meeoow, mew

happy and lively, you can easily forgive yourself for many little acts of
meoow mew meeoow, mew mew meeeow meeeeow meooooow mew meow meeoow meow me

neglect towards her; but when she falls ill, when she is writhing in pain,
meeeeow meoooow mew; mew meow mew meoow mew, meow mew me meeoooow me meow,

and looking in your face with eyes that implore your aid, then, indeed, I
mew meeeoow me meow meow meow meow meow meeeeow meow mew, meow, meeeow, M

do not envy your feelings, if, coupled with your sorrow for her
me mew meow meow meeoooow, me, meeooow meow meow meeoow mew mew

sufferings, you have the sad reflection that, many a time, you might have
meeoooooow, mew meow mew mew meeeeoooow meow, meow m meow, mew meeow meow

been better to her.
meow meooow me mew.




There is more room for improvement, in the breed and condition of the
Meeow me meow meow mew meoooooooow, me mew meoow mew meeeoooow me mew

domestic cat, than in that of any other animal I know; and no creature so
meeeooow mew, meow me meow me mew meoow meeoow M meow; mew me meeeeoow me

soon repays its master, for the care and attention he may bestow on it.
meow meooow mew meooow, mew mew meow mew meoooooow me mew meeoow me me.

Instead of the meagre-looking, small, short-haired, guilty thief, that
Meeooow me mew meeoow-meoooow, meoow, meoow-meeoow, meooow meoow, meow

used to fly and get up the chimney whenever it heard your footstep, you
meow me mew mew mew me mew meeeoow meeoooow me meoow meow meeeeeow, mew

have a large, honest, plump pussy, with glossy fur and loving eye, that
meow m meoow, meeoow, meoow meoow, meow meeoow mew mew meooow mew, meow

runs to meet you with a song, and jumps on your shoulder to have the
meow me meow mew meow m meow, mew meoow me meow meeeeeow me meow mew

pleasure of _giving_ you the first caress--a thing of joy and beauty
meeeooow me meeoooow mew mew meoow meeeow--m meoow me mew mew meooow

for----, well, for a matter of fifteen years at least. And these are the
mew----, meow, mew m meooow me meeeeow meoow me meeow. Mew meoow mew mew

sort of cats I wish to see throughout the length and breadth of the land.
meow me meow M meow me mew meeeeoooow mew meeeow mew meoooow me mew meow.

I like to see people fond of their cats. Some will tell you it is unmanly
M meow me mew meeeow meow me meeow meow. Meow meow meow mew me me meoooow

to love a cat. Fudge! Man’s manliness consists in doing, in a
me meow m mew. Meoow! Mew’m meeeoooow meeoooow me meoow, me m

straightforward manner, whatsoever is natural and right, and not fearing
meeooooooooooow meeoow, meeeooooow me meeooow mew meoow, mew mew meeooow

the face of clay in the doing of it.
mew meow me meow me mew meoow me me.




“But,” said I, the other day at Birmingham, somewhat mischievously
“Mew,” meow M, mew meeow mew me Meooooooow, meeeeoow meoooooooooow

interrupting a sporting friend of mine, who was indulging in a long
meeeeeeeeeow m meeeooow meooow me meow, mew mew meoooooow me m meow

diatribe on the comparative merits of two bull-terriers, “But, have you
meeeeeow me mew meoooooooow meeeow me mew meow-meeeeoow, “Mew, meow mew

seen the cats?”
meow mew meow?”




“Confound the cats!” he answered testily, and, after a pause, “D’ye know
“Meeoooow mew meow!” me meeoooow meeeoow, mew, meeow m meeow, “M’me meow

what I should like to do? Look, see. There are a hundred and twenty
meow M meooow meow me me? Meow, mew. Meeow mew m meeeeow mew meeoow

fox-terriers yonder; well, I’d just turn them into the cat show and close
mew-meeeooow meeeow; meow, M’m meow meow meow meow mew mew meow mew meoow

the doors.”
mew meoow.”




“Well, at all events,” said I, “come and see them.” Arrived in the
“Meow, me mew meeeow,” meow M, “meow mew mew meow.” Meeeoow me mew

building, my friend walked along the rows of cages, peeping into each with
meeeooow, me meeeow meooow meeow mew meow me meeow, meeeoow meow meow meow

an air of amusing perplexity. At last he stopped before a beautiful
me mew me meeooow meeeeeooow. Me meow me meeeeow meeeow m meeeeeeow

Persian, and,--
Meeeeow, mew,--




“D--n it all,” said he--his language was not very choice--“these aren’t
“M--m me mew,” meow me--mew meeeeeow mew mew meow meeoow--“meoow meow’m

cats, Doctor--they are some foreign beasts.”
meow, Meooow--meow mew meow meeeoow meeeow.”




“Foreign only to bad treatment,” I said.
“Meeeeow meow me mew meoooooow,” M meow.




The upshot of it was, that I had to buy him a kitten--one of great
Mew meooow me me mew, meow M mew me mew mew m meeoow--mew me meoow

promise. He took it away in his pocket.
meeeoow. Me meow me meow me mew meooow.




“I’ll be good to it,” he said; “and when it’s big, if it’s game and all
“M’me me meow me me,” me meow; “mew meow me’m mew, me me’m meow mew mew

that, I’ll--look, see--I’ll give it _a dozen rats every Sunday morning_,
meow, M’me--meow, mew--M’me meow me me meoow meow meoow Meooow meeoooow,

hang me if I don’t.”
meow me me M mew’m.”




He is a rough nut, my friend; but good at the kernel.
Me me m meeow mew, me meeeow; mew meow me mew meeoow.




In order, then, to keep pussy in perfect health, pelage, and temper, and
Me meeow, meow, me meow meeow me meeeeow meeeow, meeeow, mew meeoow, mew

worthy of taking her place before the parlour fire, or on the drawing-room
meeeow me meeeow mew meoow meeoow mew meeeeow meow, me me mew meeeoow-meow

couch, we must attend to three things, viz., her _food_, her _drink_, and
meoow, me meow meeoow me meeow meooow, mew., mew meeoow, mew meoooow, mew

her _housing_.
mew meeeeeoow.




FOOD.--I have no doubt that cats were originally admitted to the society
MEOW.--M meow me meoow meow meow meow meeeeoooow meeeeeow me mew meeeeow

of mankind, on account of their proclivities for killing rats and mice. We
me meeeoow, me meeeoow me meoow meeeeeeeeoow mew meeeoow meow mew meow. Me

can have some clue to the seeming mystery of the veneration, in which cats
mew meow meow meow me mew meoooow meeeoow me mew meeeeeooow, me meeow meow

were held in ancient Egypt, if we remember the large stores of grain,
meow meow me meeeoow Meeow, me me meeeooow mew meoow meeeow me meoow,

etc., which its inhabitants were in the habit of laying up. No country in
mew., meeow mew meeeeeeooow meow me mew meoow me meooow me. Me meoooow me

the world depended more, for its very existence as a nation, on its
mew meeow meeeeeow meow, mew mew meow meoooooow me m meeoow, me mew

cereals than did Egypt. We can imagine, then, a time when cats were
meeeoow meow mew Meeow. Me mew meoooow, meow, m meow meow meow meow

unknown even to the Egyptians, and a particular year, when the crops had
meeooow meow me mew Meeeoooow, mew m meeeooooow meow, meow mew meeow mew

nearly failed, when the grain was hoarded carefully, and when, with
meeeow meeoow, meow mew meoow mew meeooow meoooooow, mew meow, meow

famine, came a plague of rats and mice, threatening death and annihilation
meeeow, meow m meeoow me meow mew meow, meeeeeeeeow meeow mew meeeeeeeeoow

to all in the land. We may easily fancy, the reign of terror and gloom
me mew me mew meow. Me mew meooow meoow, mew meoow me meeeow mew meoow

that would ensue; and then we can understand the exuberance of joy, and
meow meeow meeow; mew meow me mew meeeeoooow mew meeeeeeeow me mew, mew

general rejoicing on the introduction, by some Magi from a far country, of
meoooow meeooooow me mew meeeooooooow, me meow Meow meow m mew meeeeow, me

their new-found friend the cat. _A nation saved by cats!_ Something of the
meeow mew-meoow meeoow mew mew. ME meeoow meoow me meow!m Meeeeeeow me mew

kind must undoubtedly have occurred; and thus the stringent laws framed
meow meow meeeeeoooow meow meeoooow; mew meow mew meeeeeoow meow meeeow

for pussy’s protection, and the love and regard, lavished on her by all
mew meoow’m meeeooooow, mew mew meow mew meooow, meeeeeow me mew me mew

classes of the people, may more easily be accounted for. We ourselves have
meoooow me mew meeoow, mew meow meeeow me meeeeooow mew. Me meeeeeoow meow

always had cats, since the conquest by the Romans, and can neither fully
meeeow mew meow, meeow mew meeeooow me mew Meooow, mew mew meeeeow meeow

appreciate their value nor use; but think, reader, just for a moment,
meeeeeeoow meoow meoow mew mew; mew meeow, meeoow, meow mew m meeeow,

what the consequences would be, and how great the destruction of property
meow mew meeeeeeoooow meeow me, mew mew meeow mew meoooooooow me meeoooow

by vermin, were cats to be suddenly exterminated. If then, only for the
me meooow, meow meow me me meeoooow meeeeeeeeoow. Me meow, meow mew mew

sake of making pussy more valuable as a vermin-killer, she ought to have
meow me meeoow meoow meow meeeooow me m meeeow-meeeow, mew meeow me meow

regular and sufficient food. A cat ought to be fed at least twice a day.
meeooow mew meeeeoooow meow. M mew meeow me me mew me meeow meoow m mew.

Let her have a dish to herself, put down to her, and removed when the meal
Mew mew meow m meow me meeeeow, mew meow me mew, mew meoooow meow mew meow

is finished. Experience is the best teacher as regards the quantity of a
me meeeeoow. Meooooooow me mew meow meeeoow me meeeoow mew meooooow me m

cat’s food, and in quality let it be varied. Oatmeal porridge and milk, or
mew’m meow, mew me meeeoow mew me me meooow. Meeeeow meeoooow mew meow, me

white bread steeped in warm milk, to which a little sugar has been added,
meoow meeow meeooow me meow meow, me meeow m meeoow meoow mew meow meoow,

are both excellent breakfasts for puss; and for dinner she must have an
mew meow meeeeeoow meeeeeeeow mew meow; mew mew meeeow mew meow meow me

allowance of flesh. Boiled lights are better for her than horse-meat, and
meeeeooow me meeow. Meeoow meeoow mew meooow mew mew meow meeow-meow, mew

occasionally let her have fish. Teach your cat to wait patiently till she
meeeeeeoooow mew mew meow meow. Meeow meow mew me meow meoooooow meow mew

is served--a spoiled cat is nearly as disagreeable as a spoiled child. If
me meeoow--m meeeoow mew me meeeow me meeeeeooooow me m meeeeow meeow. Me

you want to have your cat nice and clean, treat her now and then to a
mew meow me meow meow mew meow mew meoow, meeow mew mew mew meow me m

square inch of fresh butter. It not only acts as a gentle laxative, but,
meeeow meow me meoow meeeow. Me mew meow meow me m meooow meeeeeow, mew,

the grease, combining in her mouth with the alkalinity of her saliva,
mew meeeow, meoooooow me mew meoow meow mew meeeeeeoow me mew meeoow,

forms a kind of natural cat-soap, and you will see she will immediately
meeow m meow me meeeeow mew-meow, mew mew meow mew mew meow meeeeeeooow

commence washing herself, and become beautifully clean. (N.B.--If you wish
meeeeoow meeeeow meoooow, mew meeoow meeeeeoooow meeow. (M.M.--Me mew meow

to have a cat nicely done up for showing, touch her all over with a sponge
me meow m mew meooow meow me mew meeeoow, meeow mew mew meow meow m meeeow

dipped in fresh cream, when she licks herself the effect is wonderful.)
meeoow me meoow meeow, meow mew meeow meeeeow mew meooow me meeeeeeow.)




Remember that too much flesh-meat, especially liver,--which ought only to
Meeeooow meow mew meow meeow-meow, meeeeeooow meeow,--meoow meoow meow me

be given occasionally,--is very apt to induce a troublesome diarrhœa
me meeow meeoooooooow,--me meow mew me meeoow m meeeeeeeeow meeeeeow

(looseness). Do not give your pet too many tit-bits at table; but whatever
(meeooooow). Me mew meow meow mew mew meow mew-meow me meeow; mew meeoooow

else you give her, never neglect to let her have her _two regular meals_.
meow mew meow mew, meeow meoooow me mew mew meow mew meow meoooow meeeow.




Never give a cat food in an _unwashed dish_.
Meoow meow m mew meow me me meeeoooow meeow.




DRINK. It will save you a great deal of trouble, if you have a proper dish
MEEOW. Me meow meow mew m meoow meow me meeooow, me mew meow m meeeow meow

for pussy’s drink; and let it stand constantly in the same corner of the
mew meoow’m meoow; mew mew me meoow meeeooooow me mew meow meeoow me mew

room. It must be a double dish, that is, two saucers joined together, one
meow. Me meow me m meeoow meow, meow me, mew meoooow meeoow meeoooow, mew

for _water_ and the other for _milk_; and remember, it must be carefully
mew meeooow mew mew meeow mew meeeow; mew meeeeeow, me meow me meoooooow

cleaned every morning, for a highly-bred cat will not drink milk, if it
meeooow meoow meeeoow, mew m meooow-meow mew meow mew meeow meow, me me

is the least unsavoury, nor water unless it is pure and free from dust. It
me mew meoow meeeeooow, mew meoow meeeow me me meow mew meow meow meow. Me

perhaps is not very generally known, that cats nearly always prefer pure
meeeoow me mew meow meeeeeoow meoow, meow meow meooow meooow meeeow meow

water to milk, when they are really thirsty.
meoow me meow, meow meow mew meeoow meeooow.




A great treat for pussy, when she is a little bit seedy--of a morning,
M meeow meoow mew meoow, meow mew me m meeoow mew meoow--me m meeooow,

perhaps, after having been on the spree all night, and the best of cats
meeeoow, meeow meooow meow me mew meoow mew meoow, mew mew meow me meow

will go on the spree occasionally--is a saucer of nice creamy milk, made
meow me me mew meoow meooooooooow--me m meooow me meow meeeow meow, meow

warm with water, and slightly sweetened with sugar. It sets her all to
meow meow meeow, mew meeeeeow meeeeeeow meow meoow. Me meow mew mew me

rights straight away, and you will not find her ungrateful for such
meooow meeoooow meow, mew mew meow mew meow mew meeeooooow mew meow

kindness.
meeeeoow.




HOUSING. It is not at all an uncommon practice, in some parts of the
MEEOOOW. Me me mew me mew me meooooow meeeeeow, me meow meoow me mew

country, for people to turn their cats out at night, before they
meeeeow, mew meeoow me meow meeow meow mew me meoow, meeeow meow

themselves retire to rest. They do so, they will tell you, to prevent
meeoooooow meeeow me meow. Meow me me, meow meow meow mew, me meeooow

pussy from misbehaving in the house. Now such a practice cannot be too
meeow meow meeeoooooow me mew meeow. Mew meow m meeoooow meooow me mew

severely condemned. First and foremost, no well-trained cat, unless under
meeeeeow meeeeeeow. Meeow mew meeeooow, me meow-meeeeow mew, meeoow meeow

the most extreme circumstances, such as sudden illness, etc., will make
mew meow meeooow meoooooooooow, meow me meeoow meeeoow, mew., meow meow

any filth in the house where she resides; for, as I have said before,
mew meoow me mew meoow meoow mew meeooow; mew, me M meow meow meeoow,

there is no animal in the world more cleanly in its habits than the
meeow me me meeeow me mew meoow meow meeeoow me mew meooow meow mew

domestic cat. Secondly, the practice of turning pussy out of doors at
meeoooow mew. Meeeeoow, mew meeeeoow me meoooow meeow mew me meeow me

night, is the very thing to engender filthy habits in her during the day.
meoow, me mew meow meoow me meeoooow meeeow meeoow me mew meooow mew mew.

And lastly, people who treat their cats in this manner, are accountable,
Mew meeeow, meeoow mew meoow meoow meow me meow meeoow, mew meoooooooow,

for all the weight of crime, that falls upon pussy’s shoulders.
mew mew mew meeeow me meeow, meow meoow meow meoow’m meeeeooow.

Badly-housed cats become vagrants and thieves, poor, starved-looking,
Meeow-meeoow meow meooow meeoooow mew meeooow, meow, meoooow-meoooow,

beggarly brutes, and adepts at all mischief, besides being unhealthy,
meeoooow meooow, mew meeoow me mew meeeooow, meeeeow meoow meeeeeoow,

ugly, and filled with fleas. These are the cats that plunder pigeon lofts,
meow, mew meeeow meow meeow. Meoow mew mew meow meow meeooow meeeow meeow,

steal chickens, tear up beautiful flower-beds, and murder valuable rabbits
meeow meeeeeow, meow me meoooooow meeoow-meow, mew meeeow meeoooow meeooow

in cold blood. They--
me meow meoow. Meow--




  “Sleep all day, and wake all night,
  “Meeow mew mew, mew meow mew meoow,

   And keep the country round in fright.”
   Mew meow mew meeeoow meeow me meeoow.”




A cat that has been well fed and cared for by day, will seldom want to go
M mew meow mew meow meow mew mew meeow mew me mew, meow meeoow meow me me

out at night. If she does not feel sleepy, she will betake herself to the
mew me meeow. Me mew meow mew meow meeeow, mew meow meooow meeooow me mew

cellar, and have a little innocent flirtation with the mice or rats, or
meooow, mew meow m meeeow meooooow meeeeeeeow meow mew meow me meow, me

kill cock-roaches when everything else fails her.
meow meow-meeeeow meow meooooooow meow meeow mew.




Make your pussy’s bed on a couch or on the parlour sofa, or let her make
Meow meow meeow’m mew me m meoow me me mew meeooow meow, me mew mew meow

it herself. _Apropos_ of making beds: the other night I was lying on the
me meeeoow. mEoooooow me meeeow meow: mew meeow meoow M mew meeow me mew

sofa, prior to turning into bed--I had lowered the gas and admitted the
meow, meoow me meeeoow meow mew--M mew meeeeow mew mew mew meooooow mew

moonlight--when Muffie entered, apparently in a great hurry to go to
meeeoooow--meow Meooow meoooow, meooooooow me m meoow meoow me me me

sleep. Seeing her master lying there, she placed her two forepaws on the
meoow. Meeeow mew meeoow meeow meoow, mew meeoow mew mew meeoooow me mew

sofa, and looking in my face,--
meow, mew meeooow me me meow,--




“Will you kindly get up out of that and let me lie down,” she said,
“Meow mew meeoow mew me mew me meow mew mew me mew meow,” mew meow,

speaking with her eyes.
meeeeoow meow mew meow.




“Not till I’m ready; I’ll see you hanged first,” replied I, speaking with
“Mew meow M’m meeow; M’me mew mew meooow meoow,” meoooow M, meeeooow meow

mine.
meow.




“Very well, then,” said pussy; and she went straight to the table, jumped
“Meow meow, meow,” meow meoow; mew mew meow meeeeeow me mew meoow, meooow

up and pulled off the cloth, deliberately rolled herself in it, and went
me mew meeoow mew mew meoow, meeeeeooooow meooow meeeeow me me, mew meow

to sleep. She pulled down the ink along with it, and soiled the carpet,
me meeow. Mew meeoow meow mew mew meeow meow me, mew meeeow mew meooow,

but that was a matter for me and my landlady to settle between us; puss
mew meow mew m meeoow mew me mew me meeeeeow me meeeow meeeoow me; meow

did not care a rat.
mew mew meow m mew.




Never turn your cat out at night unless she asks to go.
Meoow meow meow mew mew me meoow meooow mew meow me me.




Never shut her up in a room all night, but let her have free access to
Meoow meow mew me me m meow mew meeow, mew mew mew meow meow meooow me

kitchen or attic; you will thus have a healthy, cleanly puss, and never be
meoooow me meoow; mew meow meow meow m meeeoow, meeeoow meow, mew meeow me

troubled with mice.
meeoooow meow meow.




The simplest form of medicine for a cat, and one which either in town or
Mew meeeeeow meow me meeoooow mew m mew, mew mew meeow meeeow me meow me

country they should never want, is _grass_. It is an excellent
meoooow meow meooow meoow meow, me meeeoow. Me me me meoooooow

anti-scorbutic, keeps pussy’s blood pure, and acts always as a gentle
meow-meeeeeeow, meeow meoow’m meeow meow, mew meow meooow me m meooow

laxative, and at times as an emetic, according to the quantity taken, and
meeeooow, mew me meoow me me meooow, meeeeeeow me mew meooooow meeow, mew

of this pussy herself is the best judge. In the country, a cat can always
me meow meoow meoooow me mew meow meeow. Me mew meeooow, m mew mew meeeow

find grass for herself, but in the town it ought to be given to her.
meow meeow mew meeooow, mew me mew meow me meoow me me meeow me mew.

People who are cat-fanciers, should never take a walk into the country,
Meeeow mew mew mew-meeeeeow, meeoow meoow meow m meow meow mew meoooow,

without culling a bunch of nice fresh grass for pussy. When you go home,
meeeeow meeooow m meoow me meow meeow meeow mew meeow. Meow mew me meow,

the best place to keep it will be the cellar, or lumber-room, to which
mew meow meeow me meow me meow me mew meooow, me meeoow-meow, me meoow

pussy has access, held fast by the ends between two flat stones or bricks,
meeow mew meeoow, meow meow me mew meow meeeoow mew meow meooow me meooow,

a bit of wetted flannel being placed beneath the upper stone to keep the
m mew me meooow meeooow meeow meooow meeooow mew meoow meeow me meow mew

grass fresh; and the cat will soon know where to go when she finds the
meeow meoow; mew mew mew meow meow meow meeow me me meow mew meeow mew

need for it.
meow mew me.




Although good and regular food, with proper attention, will generally
Meeoooow meow mew meoooow meow, meow meeoow meeeoooow, meow meoooooow

succeed in keeping your cats healthy, still these animals have many
meeooow me meeooow meow meow meeooow, meoow meoow meeooow meow meow

troubles which call for medical aid. I give a very few of the commonest,
meooooow meoow meow mew meeooow mew. M meow m meow mew me mew meeeeeoow,

with the treatment appropriate for each.
meow mew meeooooow meeeoooooow mew meow.




_Diarrhœa._ This, for obvious reasons, is a very troublesome complaint in
mEeeeeoow.m Meow, mew meoooow meeeoow, me m meow meoooooooow meeooooow me

a cat. It is generally induced by irregular feeding, or exposure to wet
m mew. Me me meeeeeoow meeeeow me meoooooow meeeoow, me meooooow me mew

and cold. Fat meat will also bring it on, or too much liver. It very soon
mew meow. Mew meow meow meow meeow me me, me mew meow meeow. Me meow meow

reduces the creature to a mere skeleton, and if not attended to, will end
meeeoow mew meeeooow me m meow meeeooow, mew me mew meeeeeow me, meow mew

in dysentery and death. Begin the treatment by giving the little patient
me meeeeooow mew meeow. Meeow mew meeooooow me meeeow mew meeeow meeeeow

half a small teaspoonful of castor-oil. Give a still smaller dose about
meow m meeow meoooooooow me meooow-mew. Meow m meeow meoooow meow meeow

six hours after, to which two drops of laudanum or solution of muriate of
mew meoow meeow, me meeow mew meeow me meeoooow me meeeooow me meeooow me

morphiæ has been added. Afterwards give, three times a day, either a
meoooow mew meow meeow. Meeeeeeoow meow, meoow meeow m mew, meeeow m

little chalk mixture, with half a drop of laudanum in each dose, or a
meeoow meeow meeooow, meow meow m meow me meeeooow me meow meow, me m

teaspoonful of the following mixture:--
meeeoooooow me mew meeeeeeow meeooow:--




  ℞ Vin. Ipecac.       Ʒ j.
  ℞ Mew. Meeoow.       M m.

    Tinct. Kino        Ʒ iij.
    Meoow. Meow        M mew.

    Decoct. Hæmatox    ℥ iv.
    Meooow. Meoooow    ℥ me.




Give no flesh diet; you may give the cat fish, however, in small
Meow me meeow meow; mew mew meow mew mew meow, meeooow, me meeow

quantities, and arrowroot with bread and milk. A few drops of solution of
meeeeoooow, mew meoooooow meow meeow mew meow. M mew meoow me meeeeoow me

lime may be added to each diet with advantage.
meow mew me meeow me meow meow meow meoooooow.




In diarrhœa, and in all cases of severe illness, the cat should be turned
Me meeeeoow, mew me mew meoow me meeeow meeooow, mew mew meeoow me meooow

into an empty room, with a little fire, a warm bed and a box of earth or
meow me meoow meow, meow m meeeow meow, m meow mew mew m mew me meoow me

sand.
meow.




_To give a cat medicine._ Roll her all but the head in a sheet, and get
mEw meow m mew meeoooow.m Meow mew mew mew mew meow me m meoow, mew mew

some one to hold her. Do not alarm her if possible--mind your fingers--and
meow mew me meow mew. Me mew meoow mew me meooooow--meow meow meeooow--mew

pour the medicine little by little down her throat. If a pill or bolus,
meow mew meooooow meeoow me meooow meow mew meeeow. Me m meow me meoow,

dip it in oil, and put it well down and against _the roof of her mouth_.
mew me me mew, mew mew me meow meow mew meoooow meow meow me mew meeeow.




_Chronic inflammation of the stomach._ This is a frequent disease among
mEooooow meooooooooow me mew meeeeow.m Meow me m meooooow meeeoow meeow

cats. It often follows the administration of poison--supposing the cat to
meow. Me meeow meoooow mew meeeeeeeeeooow me meeeow--meeeoooow mew mew me

have escaped immediate death. She refuses nearly all food, has frequent
meow meeooow meeeeeoow meeow. Mew meeooow meeoow mew meow, mew meeoooow

attacks of vomiting, gets thin and altogether unhealthy-looking, without
meeeeow me meeeeeow, meow meow mew meeeeeeeow meeeeeoow-meeeoow, meoooow

any apparent cause. In these cases, I generally recommend the trisnitrate
mew meeoooow meeow. Me meoow meoow, M meoooooow meeeeeoow mew meeeeeeooow

of bismuth, about a grain, to be placed on the tongue twice a day.
me meeooow, meoow m meoow, me me meooow me mew meooow meoow m mew.

Occasional doses of castor-oil or tincture of rhubarb, with milk diet and
Meeoooooow meeow me meeeow-mew me meeeeeow me meeeeow, meow meow meow mew

fish, and, if there be much wasting, raw beef may be given twice a day.
meow, mew, me meoow me meow meeooow, mew meow mew me meoow meoow m mew.




_Bronchitis._--Cats are very subject to this complaint, as they are very
mEeeeeeeoow.m--Meow mew meow meeeeow me meow meeeeeoow, me meow mew meow

liable to catch cold, especially if much exposed. It begins with the
meooow me meoow meow, meooooooow me meow meeeeow. Me meooow meow mew

symptoms of a common cold, such as staring coat, shivering, and slight
meeeeoow me m meooow meow, meow me meeeoow meow, meeeeeeow, mew meeeow

cough. Then the cat becomes very ill, for a day or two, with the acute
meeow. Meow mew mew meeeoow meow mew, mew m mew me mew, meow mew meoow

stage of the trouble, which, however, soon passes into the chronic form.
meoow me mew meeooow, meoow, meoooow, meow meeeow meow mew meoooow meow.

There is now apparent difficulty of breathing, the cat is constantly
Meoow me mew meooooow meeeeoooow me meeeeooow, mew mew me meeeooooow

coughing, with the tongue hanging over the lower lip; she has an anxious
meeeooow, meow mew meooow meeooow meow mew meoow mew; mew mew me meeeeow

expression about her face, and the eyes water and are mattery. She gets
meeeeeooow meeow mew meow, mew mew meow meeow mew mew meeeoow. Mew meow

rapidly thinner, and moons about, refusing all food, or at times eating
meeooow meoooow, mew meoow meoow, meeeeoow mew meow, me me meeow meooow

voraciously, and with depraved appetite.
meeeeeoooow, mew meow meeeeeow meeeeeow.




_Treatment._ Begin by giving a simple dose of castor-oil, if no diarrhœa
mEeeeeeeow.m Meoow me meeeow m meooow meow me meeeow-mew, me me meeeeeow

present; if so, the dose to be combined with two drops of laudanum.
meeeeow; me me, mew meow me me meooooow meow mew meeow me meeeeoow.

Confine her to the house and feed her on beef-tea and bread, or
Meeooow mew me mew meeow mew meow mew me meow-mew mew meoow, me

milk-arrowroot with beef-tea. If the disease becomes chronic, I know of no
meow-meeeoooow meow meow-mew. Me mew meeeoow meoooow meoooow, M meow me me

medicine better than--
meeeeeow meeeow meow--




  Extr. Conii
  Meow. Meoow

  Pil. Scillæ Co. ā ā      gr. xv.
  Mew. Meooow Me. m m      me. me.




made into a bolus with sufficient bread-crumb; the bolus to be divided
meow meow m meeow meow meeeooooow meoow-meeow; mew meoow me me meeeeow

into twenty pills, and one given every night. Keep up her strength, and
meow meeoow meeow, mew mew meoow meeow meeow. Meow me mew meooooow, mew

complete the cure by a small tea-spoonful of cod-liver-oil twice a day for
meeeeeow mew meow me m meeow mew-meeeeeow me mew-meeow-mew meoow m mew mew

a fortnight. This latter often acts like a charm. A certain form of
m meeeeeoow. Meow meeeow meoow meow meow m meeow. M meoooow meow me

“mange” often accompanies the disease.
“meeow” meoow meoooooooow mew meeeoow.




_Consumption._ This is not necessarily, although often, a lung-disease in
mEeeeoooooow.m Meow me mew meeeeooooow, meeeeeow meeow, m meow-meoooow me

cats. Whatever disease induces general wasting of the body, deterioration
meow. Meooooow meeooow meeeeow meeooow meeeoow me mew meow, meeooooooooow

of pelage, an unhealthy state of the system, with refusal of, or distaste
me meeoow, me meeeeooow meeow me mew meooow, meow meeeoow me, me meeoooow

for, food--if there be no bilious vomiting--may be called consumption.
mew, meow--me meeow me me meeeeow meooooow--mew me meeeow meeeeeeeoow.

_The treatment_, which in most cases is successful, is regulation of diet,
mEow meeeooooow, meoow me meow meeow me meooooooow, me meeeooooow me meow,

careful housing and attention, raw meat in small quantities twice a day,
meoooow meeeeow mew meeeeeoow, mew meow me meoow meeeeeeoow meeow m mew,

and cod-liver-oil twice or thrice a day. Cod-liver-oil must be the sheet
mew mew-meoow-mew meoow me meeoow m mew. Mew-meeow-mew meow me mew meeow

anchor in these cases; but if there is much cough, a little mixture like
meeeow me meoow meeow; mew me meeow me meow meoow, m meooow meeeoow meow

the following will not fail to give relief,--
mew meeooooow meow mew meow me meow meeoow,--




  ℞ Tinct. Opii Camph.     Ʒ j.
  ℞ Meoow. Meow Meoow.     M m.

    Syr. Scillæ            Ʒ jss.
    Mew. Meeoow            M mew.

    Sol. Mur. Morphiæ      m. x.
    Mew. Mew. Meeeeow      m. m.

    Aquæ cum Syrupo        ad. ℥ ij.--M.
    Meow mew Meeoow        me. ℥ me.--M.




A teaspoonful occasionally.
M meeeeeoooow meeeeeeeeeow.




_Fits._ Cats are subject to various sorts of fits, delirious and
mEeow.m Meow mew meeeoow me meeeoow meoow me meow, meeeeeoow mew

otherwise. The great thing is to give instant relief. Try first a common
meeeeooow. Mew meoow meeow me me meow meeeeow meooow. Mew meoow m meeoow

smelling-salts bottle held to the nostrils, or a pinch of dry snuff; if
meooooow-meoow meooow meow me mew meeeooow, me m meeow me mew meeow; me

that does no good, pussy must be bled. I make a minute incision on the
meow meow me meow, meoow meow me meow. M meow m meeeow meeoooow me mew

lower part of the ear behind, with a fine-pointed lancet, and then foment
meoow meow me mew mew meeoow, meow m meow-meeooow meooow, mew meow meooow

with a sponge and hot water.
meow m meeeow mew mew meoow.




The after-treatment will depend much on the condition of the cat. If too
Mew meeow-meoooooow meow meooow meow me mew meeeeooow me mew mew. Me mew

fat or heavy, the diet must be lowered and regulated,--sheep’s liver and
mew me meoow, mew meow meow me meeeoow mew meeeoooow,--meoow’m meeow mew

melt being given three times a week; if she is thin and emaciated, we must
meow meoow meeow meeow meeow m meow; me mew me meow mew meeooooow, me meow

trust to plenty of milk and raw meat, with cod-liver oil, with one-tenth
meoow me meeeow me meow mew mew meow, meow mew-meeow mew, meow mew-meeow

of a grain of quinine, twice a day. If the cat be subject to fits the
me m meeow me meeooow, meeow m mew. Me mew mew me meeeoow me meow mew

following will be found useful:--
meeeeeoow meow me meeow meeeow:--




  ℞ Bromid. Potass.    gr. x.
  ℞ Meeeow. Meooow.    me. m.

    Iod. Potass.       gr. ijss.
    Mew. Meooow.       me. meow.

    Zinci. Sulph.      gr. iv.
    Meeow. Meoow.      me. me.




Mix with bread-crumb to form twenty pills, and give one morning and night.
Mew meow meoow-meeow me meow meeoow meeow, mew meow mew meeeoow mew meoow.




_Mange._ I merely use this term because it is a handy one. Cats never have
mEooow.m M meeeow mew meow meow meeeoow me me m meeow mew. Meow meeow meow

mange as found in the dog; but they have many kinds of skin diseases, both
meeow me meoow me mew mew; mew meow meow meow meoow me meow meeeeoow, meow

pustular and scaly. They may all be treated in a similar manner. Attention
meeoooow mew meeow. Meow mew mew me meoooow me m meoooow meeeow. Meeooooow

to diet: let it be nourishing, moderate in quantity, and not heating. Let
me meow: mew me me meeeeeeeow, meooooow me meeoooow, mew mew meeeeow. Mew

the cat have plenty of exercise and free access to grass. A lotion of
mew mew meow meooow me meooooow mew meow meooow me meoow. M meeeow me

carbolic acid may be used with advantage, not stronger than one part of
meooooow meow mew me meow meow meeeoooow, mew meeoooow meow mew meow me

the acid to seventy of water. It must be _very_ carefully mixed, and
mew meow me meeeeow me meoow. Me meow me meooow meeooooow meoow, mew

washed off again in two or three hours. Afterwards, an ointment of sulphur
meooow mew meoow me mew me meoow meoow. Meeeeoooow, me meeeeeow me meeeeow

and hellebore may be used,--which any chemist will make for you,--and
mew meeeeeeow mew me meow,--meoow mew meeeoow meow meow mew mew,--mew

arsenic must be given internally. The _liquor arsenicalis_ is the medicine
meeeeow meow me meoow meeeeoooow. Mew meeeeow meeeeoooooow me mew meeeooow

to be used: drop six drops into an ounce bottle of water, and give pussy
me me meow: meow mew meeow meow me meeow meooow me meeow, mew meow meeow

one teaspoonful twice a day in her milk. There is no taste with the
mew meeeeeoooow meeow m mew me mew meow. Meeow me me meoow meow mew

medicine. Continue this for a fortnight, then omit for three days, and
meooooow. Meeoooow meow mew m meeeoooow, meow meow mew meeow meow, mew

resume again until a cure is effected and the hair begins to grow again.
meooow meeow meoow m meow me meeeeoow mew mew meow meeeow me meow meeow.




_The Yellows._ This disease is often as fatal in the dog as in the cat. It
mEow Meeeeow.m Meow meeeoow me meoow me meeow me mew mew me me mew mew. Me

is caused by derangement of the liver, and is most common in large overfed
me meooow me meeeeooooow me mew meoow, mew me meow meooow me meoow meoooow

cats, which get little exercise. The disease is ushered in by general
meow, meoow mew meooow meeeeoow. Mew meeooow me meoooow me me meeooow

feverishness, loss of appetite, and shivering. Sickness next comes on,
meeeeeeeooow, meow me meeoooow, mew meeeeooow. Meeeooow meow meoow me,

accompanied by vomiting of a bright yellow, or dark green fluid, mixed
meeeeooooow me meeeooow me m meooow meooow, me meow meoow meoow, meeow

with froth. The vomiting continues, and is at times very distressing; and
meow meoow. Mew meeeooow meeeoooow, mew me me meeow meow meeeeeeeeow; mew

diarrhœa and dysentery may supervene and cause death. If taken in time,
meeeooow mew meeeeeoow mew meeeoooow mew meoow meeow. Me meoow me meow,

give her about half a small tea-spoonful of glauber salts, well diluted
meow mew meeow meow m meeow mew-meooooow me meeooow meeow, meow meeeeow

with water. This, even if it should cause vomiting, will thereby do good
meow meeow. Meow, meow me me meeeow meeow meooooow, meow meoooow me meow

by clearing the stomach; besides, the shock may tend to check the fever.
me meeeeeow mew meeeeow; meeeoow, mew meeow mew meow me meeow mew meoow.

If the vomiting continues, try a pinch of white bismuth, placed on the
Me mew meooooow meeeeeeow, mew m meoow me meeow meoooow, meeoow me mew

tongue, or from one to three drops of laurel-leaf water; or, take one
meeeow, me meow mew me meeow meeow me meeoow-meow meoow; me, meow mew

drop of creasote, a few grains of aromatic powder, and sufficient fresh
meow me meeeooow, m mew meeeow me meeeeoow meooow, mew meeeeoooow meeow

bread-crumb to form ten pills; and give one three times a day. Give, for
meeow-meoow me meow mew meeow; mew meow mew meeow meoow m mew. Meow, mew

four or five nights half a grain of calomel on the tongue; and if much
meow me meow meooow meow m meeow me meeeeow me mew meeoow; mew me meow

diarrhœa is present, give her a grain of white bismuth three times a day,
meeeooow me meoooow, meow mew m meoow me meoow meoooow meoow meoow m mew,

with one or two drops of laudanum at night; and complete the cure by
meow mew me mew meeow me meeeeoow me meoow; mew meeeeeow mew meow me

infinitesimal doses of quinine, with cod-liver-oil and raw meat, if there
meeeeeeeoooow meeow me meeeoow, meow mew-meeow-mew mew mew meow, me meeow

be much emaciation.
me meow meeeeeeeow.




_Dysentery._ This is a very serious complaint, and nearly always fatal. It
mEeeeeeeow.m Meow me m meow meeeeow meeeeeeow, mew meooow meooow meoow. Me

is best treated by castor-oil to begin with; afterwards, minute doses of
me meow meoooow me meeeow-mew me meoow meow; meeoooooow, meooow meoow me

opium and ipecacuanha, with generous diet and occasionally a little port
meoow mew meeooooooow, meow meeeeeow meow mew meeeooooooow m meeeow meow

wine.
meow.




_Milk Fever._ On no account should a cat’s kittens be taken from her all
mEoow Meoow.m Me me meeeeow meooow m mew’m meeeoow me meoow meow mew mew

at once. Indeed, one should always be left to be reared. In milk-fever the
me meow. Meeoow, mew meeeow meeeow me meow me me meeoow. Me meow-meoow mew

paps are swollen and painful, the secretion of milk is suppressed, and the
meow mew meeeoow mew meoooow, mew meeooooow me meow me meeeeeeoow, mew mew

cat is either highly excited--sometimes attempting to kill her kittens--or
mew me meeoow meeeow meoooow--meeeoooow meooooooow me meow mew meeeoow--me

dull and stupid-like. A little bleeding will give relief if there is
meow mew meeoow-meow. M meooow meeeeoow meow meow meeeow me meeow me

delirium. The tits are to be well fomented with warm water, and a little
meeeeeow. Mew meow mew me me meow meeeeeow meow meow meeow, mew m meeoow

wine given occasionally, with cream. Three or four drops of compound
meow meoow meeeeeeoooow, meow meoow. Meeow me meow meeow me meeeeoow

tincture of camphor, twice a day, will tend to allay irritability.
meeoooow me meeeeow, meeow m mew, meow meow me meoow meeeeeeoooow.




_Inflammation_ of one or both eyes is not uncommon among cats, either
mEeoooooooooow me mew me meow meow me mew meeeeoow meeow meow, meeeow

through injury, or from cold. _Remedy_: A lotion of sulphate of zinc, two
meoooow meooow, me meow meow. mEeoooow: M meeeow me meooooow me meow, mew

grains to an ounce of water, or a few grains of common alum in warm water,
meeeow me me meeow me meoow, me m mew meooow me meeeow meow me meow meeow,

as a fomentation, will generally effect a cure.
me m meeeeeeeoow, meow meeeeeoow meeoow m meow.




For _ulcers_ and _sores_ of external ears or cheeks, touch them
Mew meooooow mew meeeoow me meeeeoow meow me meeeow, meeow meow

occasionally with blue-stone, and apply--
meeeeeeeeeow meow meow-meeow, mew meoow--




  ℞ Sulph. Zinci          gr. x.
  ℞ Meeow. Meeow          me. m.

    Tinct. Lavandula      Ʒ j.
    Meoow. Meeeoooow      M m.

    Aquæ                  ℥ iv.
    Meow                  ℥ me.




If they are very inveterate, they will only yield to red precipitate
Me meow mew meow meeoooooow, meow meow meow meeow me mew meeeeeoooow

ointment, and arsenic internally, as for mange.
meeeooow, mew meeooow meooooooow, me mew meoow.




Cats stand operations of all sorts well. If a cat’s leg is broken and
Meow meoow meeeooooow me mew meeow meow. Me m mew’m mew me meeeow mew

lacerated by a trap, cut it off. Don’t be afraid. Only leave sufficient
meoooooow me m meow, mew me mew. Mew’m me meeoow. Meow meeow meeeooooow

flesh to cover the bone, and have ready a strong red-hot wire, to
meoow me meeow mew meow, mew meow meeow m meeeow mew-mew meow, me

cauterize and stop bleeding, then bring the flaps together by a needle and
meeooooow mew meow meeeeeow, meow meoow mew meeow meeoooow me m meooow mew

thread.
meeoow.




Many cats die of apoplexy, many of paralysis. I have dissected some who
Meow meow mew me meeeeeow, meow me meeeeeoow. M meow meeeeeoow meow mew

had well-marked softening of the brain. And many die in their sleep. As a
mew meow-meeoow meeeeeeow me mew meeow. Mew meow mew me meoow meoow. Me m

general rule, if your cat seems ailing, you can’t do wrong to give her an
meeooow meow, me meow mew meeow meeeow, mew mew’m me meoow me meow mew me

emetic--try a little weak salt and water; or let her have fresh grass, and
meeeow--mew m meeoow meow meow mew meeow; me mew mew meow meoow meeow, mew

either a dose of castor-oil, or a very little grey powder.
meeoow m meow me meeoow-mew, me m meow meeeow meow meeoow.




I have often seen cats’ lives saved, by giving raw beef and cod-liver oil.
M meow meeow meow meow’ meoow meoow, me meooow mew meow mew mew-meeow mew.




When a cat is in bad health, either her stomach, bowels, liver, or
Meow m mew me me mew meeeow, meeoow mew meeeeow, meeoow, meeow, me

kidneys, are out of order; and as a rule we can generally only conjecture
meoooow, mew mew me meeow; mew me m meow me mew meeeeeoow meow meeeeeeoow

which. A medicine, therefore, that acts, gently but effectively, on all
meeow. M meeeooow, meoooooow, meow meow, meeeow mew meeeeeeooow, me mew

the organs would be a sort of specific for cats’ complaints. In the “Cat’s
mew meeeow meoow me m meow me meeeeeow mew meow’ meeeooooow. Me mew “Mew’m

Medicine Chest,” advertised at the end of this book, I have placed a
Meeoooow Meoow,” meeeeeeeow me mew mew me meow meow, M meow meeeow m

medicament of this nature, which I have often prescribed with excellent
meeeeoooow me meow meeoow, meoow M meow meeow meeeeoooow meow meeooooow

results. There is everything in that little box to make a Pussy well, and
meeeeow. Meeow me meooooooow me meow meeoow mew me meow m Meoow meow, mew

keep her happy.
meow mew meoow.













CHAPTER VIII.
MEEEEOW MEOW.




ODDS AND ENDS.
MEOW MEW MEOW.







When my pet cat read the heading of this chapter, she sarcastically
Meow me mew mew meow mew meeeoow me meow meoooow, mew meeeeeeeeooow

remarked,--
meooooow,--




“Humph! I suppose you mean that cats tails are the ‘ends’; but what’s the
“Meeow! M meeeeow mew meow meow meow meeow mew mew ‘meow’; mew meow’m mew

‘odds’?”
‘meow’?”




Theodore Nero raised his chin slightly from the carpet to add,--
Meooooow Meow meooow mew meow meooooow meow mew meeeow me mew,--




“So long’s you’re happy.”
“Me meow’m mew’me meoow.”




“You brute!” said Muffie. “You don’t know what you’re talking about; you
“Mew meoow!” meow Meeoow. “Mew mew’m meow meow mew’me meeeoow meeow; mew

always are half asleep.”
meeoow mew meow meooow.”




But touching cats’ tails (it wouldn’t be the best policy to touch every
Mew meeeooow meow’ meoow (me meeeow’m me mew meow meeeow me meeow meoow

cat’s tail however), a lady asked me seriously at dinner the other day,
mew’m meow meeeeow), m meow meoow me meeeeeeow me meeeow mew meoow mew,

“Why does a cat waggle its tail?” Such a question at such a time was a
“Mew meow m mew meeoow mew meow?” Meow m meeeeoow me meow m meow mew m

poser, and, to comfort me, she added, that she really was asking for
meoow, mew, me meoooow me, mew meoow, meow mew meeoow mew meooow mew

information. I answered, as Dundreary, “Becauth a cat ith sthronger than
meeeoooooow. M meeeooow, me Meoooooow, “Meeeeow m mew mew meeeeeoow meow

its tail; if the tail wath the sthronger, the tail would waggle the cat.”
mew meow; me mew meow meow mew meeeeeoow, mew meow meoow meeoow mew mew.”




Cats are extremely proud of their tails. Pulling a Jew’s beard, and a
Meow mew meeeeooow meeow me meoow meeow. Meeooow m Mew’m meeow, mew m

cat’s tail, are indignities of an equality. Doubtless, did mankind possess
mew’m meow, mew meeeeeoooow me me meooooow. Meoooooow, mew meeeeow meeeoow

these appendages, he would be equally jealous of their honour. But they
meeow meeeeoooow, me meoow me meeeoow meoooow me meoow meeoow. Mew meow

have been overlooked somehow in the outfitting. But just imagine how
meow meow meooooooow meeooow me mew meeeeeooow. Mew meow meoooow mew

gingerly we gentlemen would use them! How elegantly we would carry them
meeeooow me meoooooow meeow mew meow! Mew meeooooow me meeow meoow meow

under our arms while walking, and how we would flare up if any one trod on
meoow mew meow meoow meeeoow, mew mew me meoow meoow me me mew mew meow me

our tail! Imagine Paddy at a fair: “Twelve o’clock, and no foight yet!
mew meow! Meoooow Meeow me m meow: “Meooow m’meoow, mew me meooow mew!

Will any gintleman just spit on the point of my tail?”
Meow mew meeeeeoow meow meow me mew meoow me me meow?”




How useful, too, tails would be in many ways in riding, driving, or
Mew meeoow, mew, meoow meeow me me meow meow me meeoow, meeeoow, me

boating! On a rainy day, one’s umbrella might be tied to it, so as to have
meeeeow! Me m meoow mew, mew’m meeoooow meeow me meow me me, me me me meow

both hands free; and in mobs and crowds it could be worn out of sight. How
meow meeow meow; mew me meow mew meooow me meoow me meow mew me meeow. Mew

handy, to dig your neighbour in the ribs with, and say, “Sly dog”; or,
meoow, me mew meow meeeeeoow me mew meow meow, mew mew, “Mew mew”; me,

“Don’t you see, don’t you see?” when you’d made a bad pun! How useful to
“Mew’m mew mew, mew’m mew mew?” meow mew’m meow m mew mew! Mew meooow me

the orator, for elegant gesticulation, to give point to an argument, or
mew meooow, mew meeeeow meeeeooooooow, me meow meoow me me meeoooow, me

to indicate derision. For example:--
me meeoooow meeoooow. Mew meoooow:--




_Lord Chief Justice_: Did you poke your tail at me, sir?
mEeow Meoow Meeeeoow: Mew mew meow meow meow me me, mew?




_Claimant_: No, my lord; I----
mEeeeeeeow: Me, me meow; M----




_L. C. J._: Very well, sir; don’t do it again--that’s all.
ME. M. M.m: Meow meow, mew; mew’m me me meeow--meow’m mew.




How convenient the British sailor would find a tail, when aloft reefing
Mew meeeeeooow mew Meeooow meooow meoow meow m meow, meow meeow meeeoow

topsails; and, sure, wouldn’t Jack also use it as a tobacco stopper? If
meooooow; mew, meow, meeeow’m Meow meow mew me me m meoooow meoooow? Me

men had tails, the medical profession would be benefited thereby. There
mew mew meeow, mew meeeeow meeeeeooow meeow me meeeeeoow meeeoow. Meeow

would be several new diseases and new operations. How beautifully this
meoow me meeeeow mew meeeeoow mew mew meeoooooow. Mew meeeeeeeeow meow

would sound, for instance: “Compound comminuted fracture of the middle
meeow meeow, mew meeeooow: “Meeeooow meeeeeeeow meeeeeow me mew meeeow

third of caudal extremity;” or, “Amputation at the tenth caudal vertebra;”
meeow me meooow meeeeeeow;” me, “Meeeeeooow me mew meeow meooow meeeooow;”

which would give rise to advertisements like the following: “Turner’s
meeow meoow meow meow me meeeeeeeeeeeow meow mew meeeeeoow: “Meooow’m

Circular Splint,” and “Beautiful, easy-fitting Caudal Appendages, equal to
Meeeooow Meooow,” mew “Meeooooow, meow-meeeoow Meeoow Meeoooooow, meeow me

Nature; patronised by the illustrious Duke of Dunmore, whose tail was
Meeoow; meooooooow me mew meeeeooooow Meow me Meeooow, meoow meow mew

carried away by a 500 pounder, at the battle of Dorking, during the
meeeoow meow me m mew meeeeow, me mew meeoow me Meeeeow, meooow mew

famous charge of the gallant London Scottish. Only _seven-and-six_!”
meeoow meeeow me mew meoooow Meeoow Meeeeoow. Meow meooow-mew-meow!”




The ends of justice, too, would be assisted. New laws would be added to
Mew meow me meoooow, mew, meoow me meooooow. Mew meow meeow me meoow me

the penal code. Garotters would be condemned to “Two years’ imprisonment
mew meeow meow. Meeeeooow meeow me meeeeooow me “Mew meoow’ meeeooooooow

and deprivation of caudicity.” Lesser offences punished by “Six months,
mew meeeeeeeeow me meeeeooow.” Meeoow meeeooow meeeooow me “Mew meeeow,

and six inches off tail.” Thus we should easily know a rogue in the
mew mew meeoow mew meow.” Meow me meeeow meeoow meow m meeow me mew

street, when we met one.
meooow, meow me mew mew.




I must stop. I feel I should warm to the subject; and one of such vast
M meow meow. M meow M meeoow meow me mew meeeeow; mew mew me meow meow

ramifications ought to have more space for its consideration, than I can
meoooooooooow meoow me meow meow meeow mew mew meeeeooooooow, meow M mew

afford. However, to band-masters, acrobats, public-speakers, parsons,
meooow. Meeeeow, me meow-meeooow, meeeooow, meeeow-meeoooow, meeeoow,

painters, and policemen, tails would indeed be invaluable; and, upon my
meeoooow, mew meeeeooow, meeow meoow meeeow me meooooooow; mew, meow me

honour, when I come to think of it, I only wonder how human beings, have
meooow, meow M meow me meeow me me, M meow meooow mew meoow meeeow, meow

come to be overlooked in this little matter.
meow me me meeoooooow me meow meooow meooow.




Cats, it may be observed, wag their tails when pleased; when angry, they
Meow, me mew me meeeeeow, mew meoow meeow meow meeooow; meow meoow, meow

lash them; and, when excited, and about to spring on their prey, the tail
meow meow; mew, meow meeooow, mew meeow me meeoow me meoow meow, mew meow

quivers. This is all involuntary on the part of pussy, and is an index of
meoooow. Meow me mew meeeeeeooow me mew meow me meeow, mew me me meeow me

the state of her feelings, the tail being principally supplied with nerves
mew meoow me mew meeoooow, mew meow meoow meoooooooow meeeeeow meow meeoow

from the spinal chord, and along this chord the nervous force is carried
meow mew meeeow meeow, mew meoow meow meeow mew meoooow meoow me meeeoow

from the brain.
meow mew meoow.




_Why do cats always fall on their feet?_ This question is by no means
mEow me meow meeeow meow me meoow meow?m Meow meooooow me me me meoow

difficult to answer. When she first falls from a height, her back is
meeeeeeow me meeeow. Meow mew meeow meeow meow m meeoow, mew meow me

lowermost, and she is bent in a semicircle. If she fell thus, fracture of
meeeeeeow, mew mew me meow me m meeeeeooow. Me mew meow meow, meooooow me

the spine, and death, would be the inevitable result. But natural instinct
mew meoow, mew meeow, meeow me mew meeeeoooow meeeow. Mew meoooow meeeeeow

induces her, after she has fallen a foot or two, to suddenly extend the
meoooow mew, meeow mew mew meeeow m meow me mew, me meeeooow meeeow mew

muscles of her back, and stretch her legs; the belly now becomes the
meeeeow me mew meow, mew meeeeow mew meow; mew meeow mew meeeeow mew

convexity, and the back concave, thus altering the centre of gravity, and
meeeoooow, mew mew meow meeeoow, meow meeoooow mew meooow me meeeoow, mew

bringing her round; then she has only to hold herself in this position in
meeeeoow mew meoow; meow mew mew meow me meow meeooow me meow meeoooow me

order to alight on her feet.
meoow me meooow me mew meow.




One day lately, a lady, who lives in the _fourth_ story of a house in
Mew mew meeeow, m meow, mew meeow me mew meooooow meeow me m meeow me

Dundee, hung the cage with the canary on a nail outside the window. The
Meooow, meow mew meow meow mew meeeow me m meow meeeoow mew meeeow. Mew

cat, from the inside, watched it for some time till, unable any longer to
mew, meow mew meooow, meeeeow me mew meow meow meow, meeoow mew meeoow me

withstand the temptation, she made a spring, and, somehow missing the
meeeoooow mew meeeooooow, mew meow m meooow, mew, meeeoow meeooow mew

cage, fell to the ground, some forty feet. But she alighted on her feet,
meow, meow me mew meeoow, meow meoow meow. Mew mew meeeooow me mew meow,

and walked off as if nothing had occurred. (_See Note R, Addenda._)
mew meeeow mew me me meeeoow mew meeeooow. (mEow Meow M, Meeeeow.m)




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




Cats are wonderfully sure footed. I saw a cat one day, taking an airing
Meow mew meeeeeeeeow meow meeoow. M mew m mew mew mew, meeoow me meeoow

along a housetop, where Blondin could hardly have walked without a pole.
meoow m meeeeoow, meoow Meeeoow meeow meeeow meow meeoow meoooow m meow.

She had a kitten in her mouth, too, to make her performance all the more
Mew mew m meeoow me mew meoow, mew, me meow mew meeeeeeeoow mew mew meow

entertaining. Another puss I saw sitting on an iron rail, a few feet from
meeoooooooow. Meeooow meow M mew meeeoow me me meow meow, m mew meow meow

the ground, and apparently fast asleep. The rail was only about one inch
mew meeoow, mew meeeeeeeow meow meeeow. Mew meow mew meow meeow mew meow

in diameter, and she sat there fully an hour.
me meooooow, mew mew mew meoow meeow me meow.




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




Very few cats care to drink spirituous liquors. Dogs are not so
Meow mew meow meow me meeow meeeooooow meeeeow. Meow mew mew me

particular. One dog I had once, on board ship--a Labrador retriever--used
meeeeeeoow. Mew mew M mew meow, me meoow meow--m Meeeeeow meeooooow--meow

to attend the call of “Grog O!” every day, and get his allowance along
me meeoow mew meow me “Meow M!” meeow mew, mew mew mew meeeoooow meoow

with the men. He never got drunk though, and he showed his wisdom by
meow mew mew. Me meeow mew meeow meeeow, mew me meeoow mew meeoow me

taking it well watered. I know a little bull-terrier bitch, who goes to a
meeeow me meow meeeoow. M meow m meeeow meow-meeeeow meoow, mew meow me m

hotel every day she has a chance. Her favourite tipple is beer poured
meeow meeow mew mew mew m meooow. Mew meeooooow meeeow me meow meooow

upon a salver. As she cannot speak, she sits in a chair and thinks a lot.
meow m meeoow. Me mew meeoow meeow, mew meow me m meeow mew meooow m mew.

As she always meets plenty of friends willing to stand treat, she never
Me mew meeoow meeow meeoow me meeeoow meoooow me meoow meeow, mew meoow

comes home sober. I saw her a few weeks ago, trying in vain to cross the
meoow meow meeow. M mew mew m mew meoow mew, meeoow me meow me meeow mew

street. At last she sat down in the middle, and barked to me. I was sorry
meeeow. Me meow mew mew meow me mew meooow, mew meeoow me me. M mew meeow

to see a well-bred young lady in such a condition, so I helped her home,
me mew m meow-meow meeow meow me meow m meeeoooow, me M meeeow mew meow,

for which she showed gratitude next day. (_See Note S, Addenda._)
mew meoow mew meooow meeeeeeow meow mew. (mEow Meow M, Meoooow.m)




But my father had a cat,--a big Tom, whom the servants used to make drunk
Mew me meooow mew m mew,--m mew Mew, meow mew meooooow meow me meow meeow

at any time. His beverage was Scotch whiskey-brose, _i.e._, oatmeal and
me mew meow. Mew meooooow mew Meeoow meeooow-meoow, me.m.m, meeeoow mew

whiskey; and I’ve seen him come staggering into the parlour and tumble
meeeoow; mew M’me meow mew meow meeeeeeeow meow mew meeeeow mew meeeow

over the leg of the table. Then he would fall asleep.
meow mew mew me mew meeow. Meow me meoow meow meeoow.




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




Cats, as a rule, do not like music; although, if brought up in a musical
Meow, me m meow, me mew meow meoow; meeeeoow, me meoooow me me m meeeoow

family, they learn to tolerate it. A cat is easily taught to come when
meeoow, meow meoow me meeoooow me. M mew me meeeow meooow me meow meow

whistled upon. A friend of mine has a cat, who, if he commences to whistle
meeeooow meow. M meeoow me meow mew m mew, mew, me me meeeeeoow me meeeeow

a tune, immediately jumps on his breast, and rubs her head all over his
m meow, meeeoooooow meeow me mew meeoow, mew meow mew meow mew meow mew

face, as if trying to comfort him, having the notion, no doubt, that he is
meow, me me meeeow me meeeoow mew, meeoow mew meeeow, me meoow, meow me me

in some sort of anguish. But if he puts out his hand to take down his
me meow meow me meeeoow. Mew me me meow mew mew meow me meow meow mew

fiddle in her presence, she at once erects her back and tail, and growls
meeoow me mew meeeooow, mew me meow meeoow mew meow mew meow, mew meeoow

at him, in unmistakable anger. However, in this she shows her good taste,
me mew, me meeeeeeoooow meoow. Meeeeow, me meow mew meoow mew meow meoow,

for her master is certainly the most execrable performer, that ever
mew mew meeoow me meeeeooow mew meow meeeeeeow meeeeeoow, meow meow

tickled hair on gut.
meeeeow meow me mew.




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




There are many old superstitions regarding cats still extant, and many
Meoow mew meow mew meeeeeeeeooow meeeeeoow meow meeow meeeow, mew meow

foolish notions about them, that had much better be unlearned. Sailors
meeooow meeeoow meeow meow, meow mew meow meeeow me meeooooow. Meeeeow

believe, that, if the ship’s cat be lost overboard, shipwreck, or some
meoooow, meow, me mew meow’m mew me meow meoooooow, meeeeeoow, me meow

such disaster, is almost sure to follow. My own old captain, Commander
meow meeeeeow, me meeeow meow me meeeow. Me mew mew meoooow, Meeeeeeow

McH---- was imbued with this notion, hence his extreme care to retain the
MeW---- mew meeeow meow meow meeoow, meoow mew meeeoow meow me meeoow mew

black cat on board, as depicted in the tale, which follows this
meoow mew me meoow, me meeeeoow me mew meow, meoow meeeoow meow

Chapter--“The Skipper’s Imp.”
Meeeeow--“Mew Meeeeow’m Mew.”




Witches are supposed by some to be constantly attended by an evil spirit,
Meeeoow mew meeeeoow me meow me me meooooooow meooooow me me meow meooow,

in the shape of a black cat.
me mew meoow me m meeow mew.




To dream of cats is considered very unlucky. In some of the more
Me meeow me meow me meeeeoooow meow meeeeow. Me meow me mew meow

unfrequented districts of Scotland, the good folks are still very careful
meeeeeeeeeow meeooooow me Meeeooow, mew meow meoow mew meoow meow meoooow

to shut up their cats in the house, on Hallowe’en, _i.e._, the 31st of
me meow me meeow meow me mew meeow, me Meoooow’me, me.m.m, mew meow me

October. And they tell me, that those cats that have managed to escape
Meeooow. Mew meow meow me, meow meoow meow meow meow meeooow me meeeow

incarceration, that night may be seen, by those brave enough to look,
meeooooooooow, meow meoow mew me meow, me meeow meeow meeeow me meow,

scampering over hill and dell, and across the lonely moors, each one
meeoooooow meow meow mew meow, mew meeeow mew meeoow meoow, meow mew

ridden by a brownie, a bogle, a spunkie, or some other infernal jockey, in
meeeow me m meeeoow, m meoow, m meoooow, me meow meeow meeoooow meeeow, me

fact, a devil’s own steeplechase. And, they say, those cats never produce
meow, m meoow’m mew meeeeeeeooow. Mew, meow mew, meoow meow meoow meeeoow

young again; or, if they do, the sooner the kittens are put out of sight
meoow meeow; me, me meow me, mew meeeow mew meeeoow mew mew mew me meoow

the better; they are subject to startings in their sleep--no wonder--have
mew meooow; meow mew meeeeow me meeeeeeow me meeow meoow--me meeoow--meow

a weird unearthly look about their eyes, and soon pine away, and die, and
m meoow meoooooow meow meeow meeow meow, mew meow meow meow, mew mew, mew

go--we shudder to say whither.
me--me meoooow me mew meoooow.




Cats are supposed to be capital prognosticators of the weather. If a cat
Meow mew meeeeoow me me meeeoow meeeeeeeoooooow me mew meeeoow. Me m mew

is seen washing her face with more than usual assiduity, it is going to be
me meow meeeoow mew meow meow meow meow meoow meeooooow, me me meoow me me

stormy; and if pussy sits much with her back to the fire, you may expect
meeoow; mew me meoow meow meow meow mew meow me mew meow, mew mew meeeow

frost and snow in winter, and thunder and lightning, with hail, in summer.
meeow mew meow me meooow, mew meeeoow mew meeeeeeow, meow meow, me meeoow.

Some portion of pussy’s person seems, indeed, to retain the power of
Meow meeeoow me meoow’m meooow meoow, meooow, me meeoow mew meoow me

foretelling the weather, even after death, as witness that common toy,
meoooooooow mew meeeeow, meow meoow meoow, me meeeeow meow meeoow mew,

which poor people use instead of a barometer, a wee wee man, and a wee wee
meeow meow meeoow mew meeeeow me m meoooooow, m mew mew mew, mew m mew mew

woman, living together in a wee wee house; one of them pops out every day;
meoow, meeoow meeeooow me m mew mew meeow; mew me meow meow mew meoow mew;

if the day is to be fine, the lady comes, if not, like a loving wife, she
me mew mew me me me meow, mew meow meeow, me mew, meow m meeoow meow, mew

sends her good man out--the secret is, the little couple are suspended on
meoow mew meow mew mew--mew meeoow me, mew meeoow meeeow mew meeeeeoow me

catgut, which twists or untwists according to the state of the atmosphere.
meeeow, meoow meeoow me meeeeoow meeeeooow me mew meoow me mew meeeeeeeow.




[Illustration: LONG-HAIRED BLACK.
[Meeeeeeeeeow: MEOW-MEEEOW MEEOW.




First Prize--Owned by MISS ARMITAGE.]
Meeow Meoow--Meeow me MEOW MEEEEEOW.]




[Illustration: MANX.
[Meeeooooooow: MEOW.




First Prize--Owned by P. WILLIAMS, ESQ.]
Meeow Meoow--Meoow me M. MEEOOOOW, MEW.]




There is a very common popular fallacy, regarding cats sucking an infant’s
Meeow me m meow meeeow meoooow meeeoow, meeooooow meow meeooow me meeoow’m

breath, and killing it. The idea is simply preposterous. Cats, being
meeoow, mew meoooow me. Mew meow me meeoow meeeeeeeeeow. Meow, meeow

extremely fond of children, naturally like to get into the cradle, to lie
meeeeooow meow me meeeeeow, meoooooow meow me mew meow mew meeoow, me mew

beside, and watch them. They often crouch upon the child’s breast; this
meeeow, mew meeow meow. Meow meoow meooow meow mew meoow’m meooow; meow

may impede breathing more or less, according to the relative size of the
mew meooow meeeoooow meow me meow, meeeeooow me mew meeoooow meow me mew

cat to the baby. If the cat actually sits upon the child’s face, then
mew me mew meow. Me mew mew meeeeeow meow meow mew meeow’m meow, meow

indeed the poor creature may be suffocated. But such an occurrence is
meeoow mew meow meeoooow mew me meeeeoooow. Mew meow me meeeooooow me

so very rare, that it is hardly worth mentioning. Many more deaths occur
me meow meow, meow me me meeeow meeow meeeeeeeow. Meow meow meeeow meoow

from bad arrangement of a baby’s pillow, in which case the mother must be
meow mew meeeeeeooow me m meow’m meeeow, me meeow meow mew meeoow meow me

glad when there is a cat to put the blame upon.
meow meow meeow me m mew me mew mew meoow meow.




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




Cats have any amount of wiliness about them. A dog would scarcely think of
Meow meow mew meooow me meeeooow meeow meow. M mew meoow meeeooow meoow me

hiding below a bush until its prey came within reach; but cats are adepts
meeeow meoow m meow meeow mew meow meow meooow meeow; mew meow mew meeoow

at an ambuscade. A cat knows by experience that a bird--say a
me me meeeoooow. M mew meoow me meeeeeeoow meow m meow--mew m

sparrow--looks almost in every direction, saving directly beneath it, and
meeeeow--meoow meeoow me meoow meeeeooow, meooow meeeeoow meeeoow me, mew

so pussy always steals a march on it, from below. If a bird is foolish
me meeow meeeow meooow m meoow me me, meow meoow. Me m meow me meeeoow

enough to alight on the top of a clothes-pole, pussy has a very easy
meeoow me meeoow me mew mew me m meeeeow-meow, meeow mew m meow meow

victory. It is that same habit of never looking downwards, which causes
meeeoow. Me me meow meow meeow me meoow meeooow meeeoooow, meoow meeoow

those large birds, which alight on a ship’s yards at sea, to be so easily
meeow meoow meeow, meeow meeoow me m meow’m meeow me mew, me me me meeeow

captured by the sailors.
meeeeoow me mew meeeoow.




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




Instances of jealousy are by no means uncommon in the feline race.
Meeooooow me meeeooow mew me me meoow meeoooow me mew meooow meow.

Jealousy is an indication of a sensitive nature, and no animal in the
Meooooow me me meeoooooow me m meeooooow meeeow, mew me meeoow me mew

world is more sensitive than a cat. A lady had a pretty little pussy,
meeow me meow meeeoooow meow m mew. M meow mew m meeeow meeoow meeow,

which she had saved from drowning. This cat was excessively fond of its
meeow mew mew meoow meow meooooow. Meow mew mew meeeeooooow meow me mew

mistress, was never absent from her while in the house, and outside used
meeoooow, mew meeow meeeow meow mew meeow me mew meoow, mew meeeoow meow

to follow her like a dog. But in course of time, this lady bought a
me meeeow mew meow m mew. Mew me meeoow me meow, meow meow meeoow m

parrot, and pussy must have thought her mistress was paying the bird too
meeeow, mew meoow meow meow meeooow mew meeeooow mew meeoow mew meow mew

much attention, for all of a sudden the cat’s nature seemed entirely
meow meeeoooow, mew mew me m meeeow mew mew’m meeoow meeoow meeeooow

changed. It did not respond to the lady’s caresses; it would sit for an
meeooow. Me mew mew meoooow me mew meow’m meooooow; me meoow mew mew me

hour at the time, looking with gathered brows at the parrot, and instead
meow me mew meow, meeeeow meow meeeeoow meoow me mew meeoow, mew meeooow

of accompanying her mistress abroad she remained sulking in doors. In
me meeoooooooow mew meeeeoow meooow mew meeeeeow meeooow me meoow. Me

truth, the cat was breaking her heart; her glossy fur got dry and rough,
meoow, mew mew mew meeeooow mew meoow; mew meeeow mew mew mew mew meoow,

and at last she refused all food; so, as she really loved her cat, this
mew me meow mew meeeeow mew meow; me, me mew meooow meoow mew mew, meow

lady parted with her parrot, although with great reluctance. Pussy
meow meeeow meow mew meeoow, meeeeoow meow meeow meooooooow. Meoow

recovered at once; the effect seemed magical; and in a few days she was
meeeeeoow me meow; mew meeeow meooow meoooow; mew me m mew meow mew mew

herself again, the same fun-loving, frolicsome, loving wee cat she had
meeeeow meoow, mew meow mew-meeeow, meeeooooow, meooow mew mew mew mew

been before.
meow meeoow.




A gentleman had a cat whom he called “Pimento”--the pimento-tree, the
M meeeeeeow mew m mew meow me meeeow “Meoooow”--mew meoooow-meow, mew

reader will remember, is said to permit no rival plant to grow within its
meeeow meow meeeeoow, me meow me meeoow me meoow meeow me meow meeeow mew

shade. There was another cat in the same house; but Pimento, although
meoow. Meeow mew meeeoow mew me mew meow meeow; mew Meeooow, meeeeeow

otherwise a nice cat, and gentle and loving in the extreme, would never
meeeeeeow m meow mew, mew meooow mew meooow me mew meeooow, meoow meoow

allow his master to pay the slightest attention to this cat. If he did,
meeow mew meeoow me mew mew meeooooow meeooooow me meow mew. Me me mew,

there was a row at once; and if his master protected the other cat, then
meoow mew m mew me meow; mew me mew meeoow meeeoooow mew meeow mew, meow

Pimento at once left the room growling, and in high dudgeon. (_See Note T,
Meoooow me meow meow mew meow meeeooow, mew me meow meoooow. (mEow Meow M,

Addenda._)
Meoooow.m)




“In a house where I resided,” says a correspondent (_see Note U,
“Me m meoow meoow M meoooow,” meow m meeeoooooooow (meow Meow M,

Addenda_), “there were two cats, a young and an old one. The young one was
Meeoooow), “meoow meow mew meow, m meoow mew me mew mew. Mew meoow mew mew

a smart clever animal with a decided turn for humour, the other liked to
m meeow meeeow meeeow meow m meoooow meow mew meooow, mew meeow meoow me

be taken notice of. One day I was paying some attention to the latter,
me meeow meeeow me. Mew mew M mew meooow meow meeeeeoow me mew meeoow,

which, of course, was highly pleased. With tail erect, it walked backward
meeow, me meooow, mew meeoow meeeoow. Meow meow meeow, me meeeow meeeooow

and forward. The young one, which had been pretending to be asleep,
mew meeeoow. Mew meoow mew, meeow mew meow meeeeeeeow me me meeeow,

suddenly seized hold of the tail of the other with its paw, gave it a
meooooow meeoow meow me mew meow me mew meoow meow mew mew, meow me m

sharp pull, and was again in a sleeping attitude ere the other had time
meoow meow, mew mew meoow me m meooooow meooooow mew mew meeow mew meow

to look round. The old one turned about, saw the young one apparently
me meow meeow. Mew mew mew meooow meoow, mew mew meeow mew meeoooooow

asleep, and me laughing. It immediately retired to a corner of the room,
meeoow, mew me meeeeeow. Me meeeeeeeeow meeeoow me m meeoow me mew meow,

thinking no doubt that I was a double villain.”
meeeooow me meoow meow M mew m meooow meoooow.”




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




Did the reader ever observe how very fond cats are of sitting on paper.
Mew mew meooow meow meeeeow mew meow meow meow mew me meeeoow me meeow.

One can hardly have a pet puss, and not observe this trait. If you have a
Mew mew meooow meow m mew meow, mew mew meeeoow meow meoow. Me mew meow m

book in your lap, up jumps Pussy, and seats herself right on top of it. If
meow me meow mew, me meoow Meeow, mew meeow meoooow meoow me mew me me. Me

you are writing a letter, Pussy creeps along the table, singing so that
mew mew meeeoow m meooow, Meoow meeoow meoow mew meoow, meeooow me meow

you can hardly be angry with her, and places herself on the writing
mew mew meooow me meeow meow mew, mew meeeow meeooow me mew meeeeow

materials. My present puss prefers the _Daily Telegraph_ to anything else
meoooooow. Me meeeoow meow meeeeow mew mEeoow Meeeeoooow me meeeeoow meow

for a bed at night, or to have her kittens on; indeed, if the _Standard_
mew m mew me meoow, me me meow mew meeooow me; meeoow, me mew mEeeeeeeow

is lying on the same sofa, and she gets on to it by mistake, she will very
me meeow me mew meow meow, mew mew meow me me me me meoooow, mew meow meow

soon get off, and on to the _Telegraph_.
meow mew mew, mew me me mew mEeeeeeooow.




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




Are cats revengeful? Never as a rule. Yet they do sometimes display little
Mew meow meeeeeeoow? Meoow me m meow. Mew meow me meeeoooow meeeoow meeoow

pettish outbursts of temper. They would not be like women if they did not
meeeoow meeeeeeow me meooow. Meow meoow mew me meow meoow me meow mew mew

do that.
me meow.




A lady tells me that when she is writing, her cat will sometimes come and
M meow meeow me meow meow mew me meeeeow, mew mew meow meeooooow meow mew

plant herself right in the way, and when gently pushed off, she suddenly
meeow meeooow meoow me mew mew, mew meow meeeow meeeow mew, mew meooooow

loses her temper, and pitches the writing materials right and left on to
meoow mew meeoow, mew meeeeow mew meoooow meeeeeoow meoow mew meow me me

the floor.
mew meeow.




The following anecdote is highly illustrative of the kind and quantity of
Mew meeeeeeow meooooow me meooow meeeeeeeooow me mew meow mew meeeeoow me

pussy’s revenge:--
meoow’m meeooow:--




“Now for the story of the cat; she was a lovely black and white Kâbul cat
“Mew mew mew meoow me mew mew; mew mew m meeeow meeow mew meoow Meoow mew

(the same as Persian) with hair like floss silk, as long as one’s finger;
(mew meow me Meeeeow) meow meow meow meeow meow, me meow me mew’m meeeow;

and as wise--as a great many human beings. She had a great dislike to
mew me meow--me m meoow meow meeow meooow. Mew mew m meeow meeooow me

roast mutton cold, and when I had nothing else to offer her, her
meeow meooow meow, mew meow M mew meeooow meow me meoow mew, mew

resentment was most marked: she refused my caresses, and walked straight
meeeeeooow mew meow meeeow: mew meoooow me meeeeeow, mew meeeow meeoooow

off to my dressing-room, where on the top of the chest of drawers stood my
mew me me meeoooow-meow, meeow me mew mew me mew meoow me meoooow meeow me

bonnet-box. She jumped up and administered slaps to the box, until it fell
meeoow-mew. Mew meeoow me mew meeoooooooow meoow me mew mew, meeow me meow

on the floor, when she would come away at once, her revenge being
me mew meeow, meow mew meoow meow meow me meow, mew meeooow meoow

gratified. This occurred on several occasions, and only when she was
meeeeooow. Meow meeoooow me meoooow meeeeeoow, mew meow meow mew mew

offered a cold mutton dinner. Was not the knowledge of what would
meeeeow m meow meeeow meeoow. Mew mew mew meeeeeoow me meow meoow

distress my feminine feelings a wonderful piece of intelligence? We quite
meeeeeow me meooooow meeeooow m meoooooow meeow me meeeeeooooow? Me meoow

looked out for it after the first few times, and would watch her walking
meeoow mew mew me meeow mew meeow mew meeow, mew meoow meoow mew meeooow

off to my room, and then in a minute or two there would be ‘bump, bump,’
mew me me meow, mew meow me m meooow me mew meeow meoow me ‘meow, meow,’

and my husband would say, ‘There goes your bonnet!’” (_See Note V,
mew me meeeoow meeow mew, ‘Meeow meow meow meeeow!’” (mEow Meow M,

Addenda._)
Meoooow.m)




I only know one instance of what might be called revenge proper. It was a
M meow meow mew meeeooow me meow meeow me meooow meoooow meeeow. Me mew m

large black cat of the name of Imp. The poor fellow was exceedingly
meeow meeow mew me mew meow me Mew. Mew meow meeoow mew meeeeooooow

ill-used by the servant maid, who used to beat him on every occasion
mew-meow me mew meoooow meow, mew meow me meow mew me meeow meooooow

possible. Imp’s dislike to the girl was very great, although he evidently
meeeooow. Mew’m meeeoow me mew meow mew meow meeow, meeeooow me meoooooow

was afraid to attack her, but one day this servant was coming downstairs
mew meeoow me meooow mew, mew mew mew meow meoooow mew meeoow meeeeeooow

with a tray of dishes, and seeing both her hands full, Imp thought he
meow m meow me meeoow, mew meeoow meow mew meoow meow, Mew meoooow me

ought not to miss such a golden opportunity for retaliation. He
meoow mew me meow meow m meeeow meeeoooooow mew meeeeeeeoow. Me

accordingly flew at her, and scratched both her arms and face severely. So
meeeeeeeeow meow me mew, mew meeeoooow meow mew meow mew meow meeeeeow. Me

we see that cats, although gentle and forgiving in the extreme to those
me mew meow meow, meeeeoow meooow mew meeeoooow me mew meeooow me meoow

who love them, do not easily forget an injury from the hands of a
mew meow meow, me mew meeeow meooow me meeeow meow mew meoow me m

stranger or cat-hater. (_See Note W, Addenda._)
meooooow me mew-meoow. (mEow Meow M, Meoooow.m)




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




The reader must have often heard that cats seem to possess some wonderful
Mew meeoow meow meow meeow meoow meow meow meow me meoooow meow meeeeeoow

instinct which enables them to predict certain kinds of coming
meeeeoow meeow meeeeow meow me meoooow meeeoow meeow me meooow

calamities,--such as earthquakes, and different sorts of explosion.
meeoooooow,--meow me meeeeeoooow, mew meeeoooow meeow me meeeeeeow.

Personally, I know one instance of this, although I cannot explain it,
Meeoooooow, M meow mew meeoooow me meow, meeeeeow M meeeow meeeoow me,

viz., our ship’s cat taking to the rigging and sitting on the main-truck
mew., mew meow’m mew meeoow me mew meeeoow mew meeooow me mew meow-meeow

_before_ our vessel was discovered to be on fire. Another I have from my
meeeeeow mew meeoow mew meeeeoooow me me me meow. Meeooow M meow meow me

grandfather--an officer in the 1st Royals at the time of the last
meoooooooow--me meoooow me mew mew Meeoow me mew meow me mew meow

Anglo-Franco war. My grandmother was bending down, taking something from a
Meeow-Meeoow mew. Me meeeeeeeoow mew meeeeow meow, meeoow meeeeeoow meow m

chest on the floor, when suddenly the whole window was blown to
meeow me mew meoow, meow meooooow mew meeow meooow mew meoow me

splinters--dust almost--around her, with the thunder of some dreadful
meoooooow--meow meeeow--meeeow mew, meow mew meeooow me meow meeeooow

explosion. It was a transport that had entered the harbour--Kiel, I
meeeeeeow. Me mew m meeeeeoow meow mew meeeoow mew meeeeow--Meow, M

think--some days before, laden with war munitions, and which had blown up
meeow--meow meow meooow, meoow meow mew meeeeooow, mew meoow mew meeow me

with all hands. But it was remarked by every one on the quay, that the
meow mew meoow. Mew me mew meooooow me meoow mew me mew meow, meow mew

ship’s cat had been sitting all the morning of the explosion, on the
meow’m mew mew meow meeeeow mew mew meeooow me mew meeeeeoow, me mew

vessel’s main-truck.
meeeow’m meow-meeow.




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




Cats are sometimes very fond of horses. I know an instance of this where
Meow mew meeeeooow meow meow me meeeow. M meow me meeeeoow me meow meoow

the stable-cat was very much attached to a certain horse, and that animal
mew meeoow-mew mew meow meow meeeeoow me m meeooow meoow, mew meow meeoow

evidently reciprocated the cat’s kindly feelings. And Pussy used to stand
meeeeooow meeoooooooow mew mew’m meooow meeeeoow. Mew Meoow meow me meoow

quietly, and allow the horse to lick her fur _the wrong way_, and indeed
meeooow, mew meoow mew meoow me meow mew mew meow meeow meow, mew meooow

seemed to enjoy it. (_See Note G, Addenda._)
meeoow me meoow me. (mEow Meow M, Meeeoow.m)




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




We all know how proud Miss Puss is of her song. Barring a certain drowsy
Me mew meow mew meoow Meow Meow me me mew meow. Meeooow m meeooow meooow

monotony, which acts like a narcotic both on herself and kittens, and at
meeeeoow, meoow meow meow m meeoooow meow me meeeeow mew meeeoow, mew me

times even on human beings, there isn’t much melody in it, however. This
meoow meow me meeow meeoow, meoow mew’m meow meeeow me me, meeeoow. Meow

power of singing becomes lost in sickness, and also in extreme old age. I
meoow me meeeeow meeeoow meow me meeeeoow, mew meow me meeeeow mew mew. M

know of a cat, of very advanced years, that had given up singing for many
meow me m mew, me meow meooooow meeow, meow mew meoow me meeooow mew meow

a day, until a kitten--a famous musician in its way--came to reside at her
m mew, meoow m meooow--m meeoow meeoooow me mew mew--meow me meeeow me mew

house. Then poor old Pussy tried hard to get out a bar or two, and her
meeow. Meow meow mew Meoow meeow meow me mew mew m mew me mew, mew mew

efforts to succeed were quite ludicrous. Being laughed at she flew into a
meeeoow me meeooow meow meoow meeeoooow. Meoow meeooow me mew meow meow m

passion, and put her spite out on the happy little kitten. The more this
meeeoow, mew mew mew meoow mew me mew meoow meooow meeeow. Mew meow meow

spirited pussy was thrashed however, the louder it sang; so the old cat
meooooow meeow mew meeoooow meeeeow, mew meeoow me meow; me mew mew mew

left the room in disgust.
meow mew meow me meeeoow.




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




The days and years of a cat’s life, are on an average fourteen, but many
Mew meow mew meoow me m mew’m meow, mew me me meeeeow meeeooow, mew meow

live very much longer. Fifteen and seventeen are very common ages for
meow meow meow meooow. Meeeeow mew meeeeeeow mew meow meeoow meow mew

Pussy to die at. The longest time I have ever known a cat live, was till
Meoow me mew me. Mew meeeeow meow M meow meow meoow m mew meow, mew meow

its twenty-second year, but I have heard of them dying at the age of
mew meeoow-meooow meow, mew M meow meeow me meow meoow me mew mew me

thirty.
meeeow.




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




It is quite a common thing for a cat to feed itself with milk or cream, by
Me me meoow m meeoow meoow mew m mew me meow meeoow meow meow me meeow, me

dipping her forepaw in the jug, and then licking it. Pussy is very awkward
meeooow mew meeeoow me mew mew, mew meow meoooow me. Meeow me meow meoooow

at drinking water from a crystal tumbler. At first she will generally
me meeeeeow meeow meow m meoooow meeooow. Me meeow mew meow meoooooow

thrust her head too far in, which will make her sneeze; then she will sit
meeoow mew meow mew mew me, meoow meow meow mew meooow; meow mew meow mew

and eye the glass for a time, as if considering how far the water comes
mew mew mew meoow mew m meow, me me meeeeeoooow mew mew mew meeow meoow

up. Not content with ocular demonstration, she will next put a paw
me. Mew meeooow meow meooow meeeeeeeeeeow, mew meow meow mew m mew

cautiously in, until the extreme end of her toes touches the water, and
meeoooooow me, meeow mew meeeoow mew me mew meow meeooow mew meeow, mew

thus, after marking the distance, she can drink in comfort.
meow, meeow meeooow mew meeeeoow, mew mew meeow me meoooow.




A certain cat which had been reared on the spoon, used, when full-grown,
M meeeoow mew meeow mew meow meeoow me mew meeow, meow, meow meow-meoow,

to sit up on her hind-legs, and reaching down the spoon to her mouth with
me mew me me mew meow-meow, mew meeoooow meow mew meeow me mew meeow meow

her paws, swallow the contents. The same cat used to drink milk, if poured
mew meow, meeeoow mew meeeeeow. Mew meow mew meow me meeow meow, me meooow

into her mouth from a jug, or any dish with a spout to it. So expert at
meow mew meoow meow m mew, me mew meow meow m meeow me me. Me meeeow me

that trick did she become, that, sitting up as usual, she used to receive
meow meoow mew mew meooow, meow, meoooow me me meoow, mew meow me meeeeow

and swallow a continuous stream poured into her throat from a height of
mew meeeoow m meeeeeeeow meeeow meooow meow mew meeeow meow m meeoow me

three feet. (_See Note X, Addenda._)
meeow meow. (mEow Meow M, Meeeoow.m)




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




For the subject matter, of the remainder of this chapter, I am indebted to
Mew mew meoooow meeeow, me mew meeooooow me meow meeooow, M me meeeeeow me

a lady who takes a great interest in feline nature. (_See Note H,
m meow mew meoow m meeow meeeeeow me meeeow meeeow. (mEow Meow M,

Addenda._)
Meeeoow.m)




“It is certain,” she says, “that cats have some strange instinct, that
“Me me meeeoow,” mew meow, “meow meow meow meow meeooow meeeooow, meow

sends them, when lost or starving, to certain people. They have followed
meeow meow, meow meow me meeeeeow, me meeooow meooow. Meow meow meeeeoow

me in gay crowded streets, and met me in fields; I have gone into shops
me me mew meoooow meeeoow, mew mew me me meooow; M meow meow meow meeow

and bought milk and rolls for the starvelings; and have gone again to the
mew meeeow meow mew meoow mew mew meeeeooooow; mew meow meow meeow me mew

same place, and they were gone,--doubtless, cats on the tramp and
meow meoow, mew meow meow meow,--meeeoooow, meow me mew meoow mew

destitute. I have known a friend’s cat lost for five days, and it never
meeeoooow. M meow meoow m meeoow’m mew meow mew meow meow, mew me meoow

attempted to make its sorrows known, until I passed before the window of
meoooooow me meow mew meeeeow meoow, meeow M meeoow meooow mew meeeow me

an underground room, when her shrieks were horrible to hear, and so
me meeeeeeooow meow, meow mew meoooow meow meeeeoow me meow, mew me

prolonged, that the passers-by stopped to listen. I remained speaking to
meeeeeoow, meow mew meoooow-me meeooow me meeeow. M meeoooow meeeooow me

the poor creature, whose claws were rattling against the shut door, until
mew meow meeeooow, meoow meoow meow meeeeeow meeeeow mew meow meow, meeow

the key was brought, and pussy set free.”
mew mew mew meeeoow, mew meeow mew meow.”




She relates an instance of a young surgeon, who was on his way to join his
Mew meeooow me meeeeoow me m meoow meoooow, mew mew me mew mew me meow mew

ship, to sail to the antipodes, and who was followed to the very boat by a
meow, me meow me mew meeooooow, mew mew mew meeeeoow me mew meow meow me m

pretty little kitten. As it seemed bent on being a sailor, the surgeon put
meooow meeoow meeoow. Me me meeeow meow me meoow m meeoow, mew meeooow mew

the poor thing in his pocket. It was presented to a lady on board, who was
mew meow meeow me mew meooow. Me mew meeooooow me m meow me meeow, mew mew

interested in its story, and is now doing duty among the cats of South
meeeeeeoow me mew meoow, mew me mew meeow meow meeow mew meow me Meeow

Australia,--a country, by the bye, where cats are more fully appreciated
Meoooooow,--m meoooow, me mew mew, meoow meow mew meow meoow meeooooooow

than here.
meow meow.




Beda was a beautiful blue tabby. One summer’s morning, down in Devon, she
Meow mew m meeeeooow meow meeow. Mew meooow’m meeeoow, meow me Meoow, mew

had been missed for hours, and on being called, a viper glided out from a
mew meow meeeow mew meoow, mew me meoow meooow, m meeow meeeow mew meow m

thicket in the garden, closely followed by the cat. The snake--until
meeeoow me mew meeoow, meoooow meeeeoow me mew mew. Mew meeow--meeow

killed by a lady--kept moving off, but every moment turning round, and
meeeow me m meow--meow meeeow mew, mew meoow meeoow meoooow meeow, mew

hissing at Beda, who, however, was in no ways put about. The following
meeeeow me Meow, mew, meoooow, mew me me meow mew meeow. Mew meeeeeoow

also tends to show that cats have no fear of snakes:--
meow meeow me meow meow meow meow me meow me meeoow:--




“At Artea, in the province of Orissa, a cobra had his den under a
“Me Meoow, me mew meeeeoow me Meeeow, m meoow mew mew mew meeow m

mulberry-tree, near a garden walk. One day our English tabby cat, Beda,
meooooow-meow, meow m meeoow meow. Mew mew mew Meeeeow meeow mew, Meow,

had been missing with all her kits for some hours. She was found at the
mew meow meeeeow meow mew mew meow mew meow meeow. Mew mew meoow me mew

foot of the mulberry-tree, teaching her children to pat the cobra on the
meow me mew meeeooow-meow, meeeeeow mew meeoooow me mew mew meoow me mew

head, every time he popped it out. When the head was protruded too far, a
meow, meeow meow me meeeow me mew. Meow mew meow mew meeeoooow mew mew, m

stroke from puss herself, caused its speedy withdrawal. Thinking the game
meooow meow meow meoooow, meeoow mew meeoow meeeooooow. Meeeeoow mew meow

dangerous, the cobra, which measured two inches in diameter, was dug out
meeooooow, mew meoow, meeow meeeeoow mew meeoow me meeeeoow, mew mew mew

and killed. We were afterwards told by the natives, that no snake will
mew meeeow. Me meow meeoooooow meow me mew meeeeow, meow me meoow meow

kill a cat, as they dislike the fur.”
meow m mew, me meow meoooow mew mew.”




Cats are like dogs, and generally have a favourite among the litter, the
Meow mew meow meow, mew meeeeeoow meow m meeeeooow meeow mew meeeow, mew

handsomest. Once when Beda was nursing in India, a wild cat sprang in by
meeeooooow. Meow meow Meow mew meoooow me Meeow, m meow mew meooow me me

the open window, and tried to seize the kittens. Beda made off with her
mew meow meooow, mew meoow me meoow mew meeooow. Meow meow mew meow mew

pet, and the wild cat was beaten out. Beda, however, forgot where she had
mew, mew mew meow mew mew meeoow mew. Meow, meeeeow, meeoow meoow mew mew

hidden the favourite, nor would she be consoled with the other members of
meeoow mew meoooooow, mew meeow mew me meeeooow meow mew meoow meeeeow me

her family. A search was accordingly made, and the pet kitten at last
mew meeoow. M meeoow mew meeeeooooow meow, mew mew mew meooow me meow

found on a sofa, in an adjoining bungalo.
meoow me m meow, me me meeeeeoow meeeoow.




This lady’s cat never attempted to touch the canary, nor indeed any birds
Meow meow’m mew meoow meeeeeeow me meeow mew meooow, mew meeeow mew meoow

about the place.
meeow mew meeow.













CHAPTER IX.
MEEEEOW ME.




THE TWO “MUFFIES.”--A TALE.
MEW MEW “MEEEEOW.”--M MEOW.







While I was yet a little school-boy, there came about my father’s house
Meoow M mew mew m meeoow meooow-mew, meoow meow meoow me meooow’m meoow

and premises a plague of rats. They came in their thousands, as if
mew meeeeoow m meooow me meow. Meow meow me meoow meeeeeeow, me me

summoned by the trumpet-tones of a rodentine Bradlaugh or Odger. They took
meeoooow me mew meeeoow-meeow me m meeeeeoow Meoooooow me Meeow. Meow meow

the farm-yard and outhouses by storm, laid siege to the dwelling-house,
mew meow-meow mew meeeeeeow me meoow, meow meeow me mew meeeeoow-meeow,

and, from the thoroughly business-like manner they conducted their
mew, meow mew meooooooow meeeeeow-meow meeoow meow meoooooow meoow

operations, and went into winter quarters, it was quite evident they
meeeeoooow, mew meow meow meeoow meooooow, me mew meoow meeooow meow

meditated a stay of some duration. Sappers and miners, or royal engineers,
meeeeooow m meow me meow meeeeoow. Meeooow mew meooow, me meeow meeeoooow,

were employed to drive tunnels and galleries under every floor, with
meow meooooow me meeow meeooow mew meoooooow meeow meoow meeow, meow

passages leading to the grain-lofts above. Foraging parties were appointed
meooooow meeeoow me mew meoow-meoow meoow. Meeeooow meeooow meow meeooooow

to every stack of corn and rick of hay. The henhouse was laid under
me meeow meeow me meow mew meow me mew. Mew meooooow mew meow meoow

contribution to furnish eggs and feathers, and black-mail was levied from
meeeooooooow me meeeeow meow mew meooooow, mew meoow-meow mew meeoow meow

the very cows. The eaves of the well-thatched barns and byres were
mew meow meow. Mew meoow me mew meow-meooooow meoow mew meeow meow

apportioned to their wives, their aged, and infirm, while the poor
meeeoooooow me meoow meeow, meeow meow, mew meeoow, meoow mew meow

sparrows were dislodged from their comfortable, well-lined nests to make
meeeeeow meow meeeeeeow meow meeow meeeoooooow, meow-meeow meeow me meow

room for little naked baby rats; and so effectually was every department
meow mew meooow meoow meow meow; mew me meoooooooow mew meoow meeoooooow

worked, and so well did every branch of the service do its duty, that
meeoow, mew me meow mew meeow meeoow me mew meeooow me mew meow, meow

Cardwell himself, nay, even Bismarck, Moltke & Co., could not have
Meeeeeow meoooow, mew, meow Meeeeeow, Meooow & Me., meeow mew meow

suggested anything in the way of improvement.
meoooooow meeeooow me mew mew me meeooooooow.




At all these doings my honest father looked very blue, and employed his
Me mew meoow meeeow me meeeow meeeow meooow meow meow, mew meeoooow mew

time principally in expending various sums of money in vermin-killers, and
meow meeeeeeeeow me meeeoooow meeeoow meow me meoow me meooow-meeeeow, mew

in reading works on toxicology. The result of his study was, that many
me meoooow meeow me meeeeeeeow. Mew meeeow me mew meoow mew, meow meow

tempting morsels and savoury tit-bits were placed in convenient corners,
meeeeeow meeeeow mew meeooow mew-meow meow meooow me meeeeeeeow meeeoow,

for the benefit of the invaders. It seemed indeed for their benefit: they
mew mew meeeoow me mew meeoooow. Me meeoow meeoow mew meoow meeeoow: meow

didn’t care a straw for tartar-emetic, appeared to get fat on arsenic,
meow’m meow m meeow mew meeoow-meooow, meeeeoow me mew mew me meoooow,

while strychnia only strengthened their nervous systems, and morphia made
meeow meeeeooow meow meeeeeooooow meeow meoooow meeeoow, mew meoooow meow

them fierce.
meow meooow.




Now Gibbie was the house cat, a very large and beautiful red tabby. In his
Mew Meeeow mew mew meeow mew, m meow meeow mew meeeeooow mew meoow. Me mew

prime he had been a perfect Nimrod of the feline race. Scorning such
meeow me mew meow m meeeeow Meeeow me mew meeeow meow. Meeeooow meow

feeble game as the domestic mouse, his joy was to ramble free and
meeeow meow me mew meeeeoow meeow, mew mew mew me meeeow meow mew

unfettered among the woods and forests, by the loneliest spots at the
meeeeeeoow meeow mew meoow mew meeooow, me mew meeeeeeow meeow me mew

river’s brink, and among the mountains and rocks; often prolonging his
meoow’m meeow, mew meeow mew meeeeeoow mew meoow; meeow meeeeeeeow mew

hunting excursions for days together, but never returning without a
meeeoow meeeooooow mew meow meooooow, mew meeow meeeoooow meeeoow m

leveret or fine young rabbit. These fruits of the chase he did not always
meeooow me meow meoow meooow. Meeow meooow me mew meoow me mew mew meeeow

bring home, but often presented to his various human friends in the
meeow meow, mew meeow meeooooow me mew meeooow meoow meeeeow me mew

adjoining village; for Gibbie was known far and near, and even his
meeeoooow meeeeow; mew Meooow mew meoow mew mew meow, mew meow mew

lordship’s surly old gamekeeper, though he raised his gun at the sight of
meeeooow’m meeow mew meeeeeeeow, meooow me meeoow mew mew me mew meoow me

the cat, forbore to fire when he saw who the bold trespasser was. Many a
mew mew, meeooow me meow meow me mew mew mew meow meeoooooow mew. Meow m

rare and beautiful bird did Gibbie carry home alive, among others, I
meow mew meeeeeoow meow mew Meooow meoow meow meeow, meoow meeoow, M

remember, a beautiful specimen of the corn-crake; nor can I forget
meeoooow, m meeeeeoow meeoooow me mew meow-meeow; mew mew M meeeow

pussie’s manifest disgust, when the bird was allowed to fly away. Just two
meeoow’m meeeeeow meoooow, meow mew meow mew meeeeow me mew meow. Meow mew

days after, he brought home a crow, but this time the head was wanting. By
meow meoow, me meeeoow meow m meow, mew meow meow mew meow mew meeooow. Me

the banks of the Denburn he one day fought and slew a large pole-cat; this
mew meoow me mew Meeeeow me mew mew meeoow mew meow m meeow meow-mew; meow

he carefully skinned, and dragged home. Gibbie was as well-known in the
me meoooooow meoooow, mew meeeoow meow. Meeoow mew me meow-meoow me mew

country-side as the witch-wife, or the pack-merchant, and more respected
meeeoow-meow me mew meeow-meow, me mew meow-meeeeoow, mew meow meeeeooow

than either; and people often came to our house to beg for “ae nicht o’
meow meooow; mew meooow meeow meow me mew meoow me mew mew “me meeow m’

Gibbie,” as “the rottens (rats) at their town (farm) were gettin’ raither
Meeeow,” me “mew meeooow (meow) me meoow meow (meow) meow meooow’ meeooow

thrang and cheeky.”
meeeow mew meeoow.”




The loan was always granted.
Mew meow mew meeoow meeeeow.




“Gibbie, go,” was all my mother would say, and off trotted puss by the
“Meeoow, me,” mew mew me meeoow meoow mew, mew mew meeeeow meow me mew

party’s side, with his tail gaily on the perpendicular; for he knew, as
meeow’m meow, meow mew meow meeow me mew meeeoooooooow; mew me meow, me

well as cat could, that rare sport and a rich treat of the sweetest cream,
meow me mew meeow, meow meow meoow mew m meow meoow me mew meeeeeow meoow,

would be the reward of his compliance.
meeow me mew meooow me mew meeeeeooow.




But Gilbert did not confine himself to hunting only; he was an expert
Mew Meoooow mew mew meeeoow meeeoow me meeooow meow; me mew me meooow

fisher. For hours he would watch at one spot on the banks of a river, with
meeeow. Mew meeow me meoow meoow me mew meow me mew meoow me m meeow, meow

his eyes riveted on the water, until some unhappy trout came out to bask
mew meow meeeeow me mew meeow, meoow meow meeeoow meeow meow mew me meow

in the sun’s rays. This was Gibbie’s opportunity. For a moment only his
me mew mew’m meow. Meow mew Meeeow’m meoooooooow. Mew m meeeow meow mew

lips and tail quivered with extreme anxiety, then down, swift as Solan
meow mew meow meeeeeow meow meeooow meeeoow, meow meow, meoow me Meoow

goose, he had dived with aim unerring, and seized his finny prey, with
meoow, me mew meoow meow mew meeoooow, mew meooow mew meoow meow, meow

which he came quietly to bank, and trotted off homewards, to enjoy the
meeow me meow meeeeow me meow, mew meeeeow mew meoooooow, me meoow mew

delicious morsel in some quiet corner all to himself. Rabbits, hares, and
meeooooow meooow me meow meeow meeeow mew me meeooow. Meeeoow, meoow, mew

game of all kinds, Gibbie parted with freely; but a trout was a treat, and
meow me mew meoow, Meeeow meeoow meow meooow; mew m meoow mew m meoow, mew

he never shared it with man or mortal.
me meoow meeoow me meow mew me meooow.




But Gibbie was now old. Nineteen summers had come and gone since he had
Mew Meooow mew mew mew. Meooooow meeeoow mew meow mew meow meeow me mew

sky-larked with his mother’s tail, and his limbs had waxed stiff, and his
mew-meooow meow mew meooow’m meow, mew mew meoow mew meeow meoow, mew mew

once bright eyes were dimmed. He seldom went to the woods now, and when he
meow meeoow meow meow meeeow. Me meeoow meow me mew meeow mew, mew meow me

did he returned sorrowfully and minus. He preferred to dose by the parlour
mew me meeeooow meeeeeeooow mew meoow. Me meeeeooow me meow me mew meoooow

fire, or nurse his rheumatism before the kitchen grate; and while nodding
meow, me meeow mew meeeeoooow meeoow mew meeeeow meeow; mew meeow meeeeow

over the embers, many a scene, I warrant, of his earlier years came to his
meow mew meeoow, meow m meoow, M meeeeow, me mew meeeoow meeow meow me mew

recollection, and many a stirring adventure by flood and field stole
meooooooooow, mew meow m meooooow meoooooow me meoow mew meoow meeow

vividly back to memory, and thus he’d fight his battles o’er again, and
meoooow meow me meooow, mew meow me’m meoow mew meoooow m’me meeow, mew

kill his rabbits thrice.
meow mew meeooow meooow.




“Gibbie,” said my father one day, thoughtfully removing his pipe from his
“Meooow,” meow me meeoow mew mew, meeeooooooow meeoooow mew meow meow mew

mouth; “Gibbie, you’ve got some game in you yet, old boy.”
meeow; “Meeoow, mew’me mew meow meow me mew mew, mew mew.”




“Oh, aye,” said Gibbie, for he was the pink of politeness, and never
“Me, mew,” meow Meeeow, mew me mew mew meow me meooooooow, mew meeow

failed to reply when civilly addressed.
meeeow me meoow meow meeeoow meeeeooow.




“Well,” continued my father, “you shall have a good supper, and a night
“Meow,” meeooooow me meeeow, “mew meeow meow m meow meooow, mew m meeow

among the rats in the grain-loft.”
meoow mew meow me mew meeow-meow.”




“Wurram!” replied the cat, which doubtless meant that he was perfectly
“Meeeow!” meeeoow mew mew, meoow meoooooow meoow meow me mew meeeeeoow

willing, and that it would be a bad job for the rats. So the programme was
meoooow, mew meow me meeow me m mew mew mew mew meow. Me mew meeeeooow mew

duly carried out, and Master Gilbert was shut up among the foe.
meow meoooow mew, mew Meeeow Meoooow mew meow me meoow mew mew.




Early in the morning, my father, who had not closed an eye all the night,
Meoow me mew meoooow, me meeeow, mew mew mew meeeow me mew mew mew meeow,

opened the door, and, lame and bleeding, out limped his old favourite,
meooow mew meow, mew, meow mew meeoooow, mew meooow mew mew meeeeeeow,

shaking his poor head--raw with wounds--in the most pitiful manner
meoooow mew meow meow--mew meow meeeow--me mew meow meeeoow meooow

possible. The brave beast had fought like a tiger all the night long,
meooooow. Mew meeow meeow mew meooow meow m meeow mew mew meeow meow,

nearly two score of rats lay dead around, while the blood lay in pools on
meeeow mew meoow me meow mew meow meeoow, meeow mew meoow mew me meoow me

the decks, with as much hair and fluff, as if a dozen Kilkenny cats had
mew meeow, meow me meow meow mew meeow, me me m meoow Meeeeoow meow mew

been contending for victory--and got it. That night’s ratting proved fatal
meow meeeeeeoow mew meeeeow--mew mew me. Meow meoow’m meeeeow meooow meoow

to old Gibbie. The dreadful wounds he had received never healed, and after
me mew Meooow. Mew meeeeeow meooow me mew meeeooow meeow meeoow, mew meeow

much deliberation it was determined that an end should be put to the poor
meow meeeeeeeeeow me mew meeeooooow meow me mew meooow me mew me mew meow

animal’s sufferings.
meeoow’m meeeeeeeow.




So honest Hughoc, the stable-boy, was sent with Gibbie in a bag to drown
Me meooow Meeoow, mew meeeow-mew, mew meow meow Meooow me m mew me meeow

him.
mew.




“Is he gone?” said my mother anxiously, when he returned. And we bairns
“Me me meow?” meow me meooow meeeeeeow, meow me meooooow. Mew me meeoow

were all in tears.
meow mew me meeow.




“Gone, ma’am?” replied Hughoc; “aye, if he had been a horse, and, beggin’
“Meow, me’me?” meoooow Meeeow; “mew, me me mew meow m meeow, mew, meooow’

your pardon, a deevil forbye, the river would hae ta’en him doon,--sic a
meow meeoow, m meeoow meeoow, mew meeow meoow mew me’me mew meow,--mew m

spate (flood) I never saw in my born days.”
meoow (meeow) M meoow mew me me meow meow.”




Notwithstanding all this, Gibbie was at that moment finishing the contents
Meeeeeeeeeeeoow mew meow, Meeoow mew me meow meeeow meeeoooow mew meooooow

of his saucer, and drying his wet sides before the sitting-room fire, and
me mew meeoow, mew meeoow mew mew meoow meeeow mew meoooow-meow meow, mew

when we entered, he was singing a song to himself, like the ancient
meow me meeooow, me mew meeeoow m meow me meeeoow, meow mew meeooow

philosopher he was. But the poor cat lived but one short week longer. He
meeeeooooow me mew. Mew mew meow mew meeow mew mew meeow meow meooow. Me

died, as bardie Burns has it, “a fair strae death” in his own nook, and
meow, me meooow Meeow mew me, “m meow meoow meeow” me mew mew meow, mew

was slowly and sadly laid to rest, beneath an aged rowan tree at the end
mew meooow mew meeow meow me meow, meeeoow me meow meoow meow me mew mew

of the garden. And the berries on that tree grew redder ever after, at
me mew meeoow. Mew mew meoooow me meow meow meow meeeow meow meoow, me

least we thought so; but we never dared to taste or touch them, they were
meoow me meeeeow me; mew me meoow meoow me meeow me meoow meow, meow meow

sacred to the memory of poor dead and gone Gibbie.
meeeow me mew meeeow me meow meow mew meow Meooow.




In the meantime the plague of rats continued unabated, and their ravages
Me mew meeeeoow mew meeoow me meow meeeoooow meeeeoow, mew meoow meoooow

seemed rather to increase than diminish. But their reign was nearly at an
meeoow meooow me meeoooow meow meeeeeow. Mew meeow meoow mew meooow me me

end. One day my father received the joyful intelligence that a splendid
mew. Mew mew me meeeow meeoooow mew meeoow meeeeeooooow meow m meeeooow

young lady-kitten, was in need of a comfortable home--salary no object.
meoow meow-meooow, mew me meow me m meeeeeeeeow meow--meooow me meooow.




Away with a basket trudged my little brother and self, and after a long
Meow meow m meeeow meoooow me meeeow meeeeow mew meow, mew meeow m meow

walk came to young pussy’s residence, and had the satisfaction of finding
meow meow me meeow meoow’m meeeeooow, mew mew mew meeeeeeeeeow me meoooow

both kitten and mistress at home. The former, indeed a beauty, and
meow meeeow mew meeeooow me meow. Mew meeoow, meeeow m meeoow, mew

faultlessly marked, was engaged alternately in drinking butter-milk, and
meeeoooooow meooow, mew meeeeow meoooooooow me meeeooow meooow-meow, mew

washing her face before a small looking-glass.
meeeoow mew meow meooow m meeow meeooow-meeow.




“Aye, my bonnie bairn,”--I was the bonnie bairn, not my brother,--“she’s a
“Mew, me meooow meeow,”--M mew mew meeeow meeow, mew me meeeeow,--“mew’m m

perfect wee angel, and ye maun be good till her; ye maunna pu’ her by the
meoooow mew meoow, mew me meow me meow meow mew; me meeoow me’ mew me mew

tail, and ye maun gie her lots o’ milk, and never let her want for a
meow, mew me meow mew mew meow m’ meow, mew meoow mew mew meow mew m

lookin’-glass.”
meeoow’-meoow.”




We promised to grudge her nothing that could in any way conduce to her
Me meeeeoow me meeeow mew meoooow meow meoow me mew mew meeeeow me mew

happiness and comfort, and were allowed to carry her off. Before we
meeeoooow mew meoooow, mew meow meeeoow me meeow mew mew. Meooow me

reached home, we had taken her from the basket, and with all the solemnity
meeeoow meow, me mew meeow mew meow mew meooow, mew meow mew mew meeeeeeow

the occasion demanded, baptized her in a running stream, and called her
mew meeeeeow meooooow, meeeeoow mew me m meeooow meeeow, mew meeoow mew

name Muffie. Once fairly established in her new quarters, the kit lost no
meow Meeeow. Meow meeoow meeeeeoooow me mew mew meeoooow, mew mew meow me

time in commencing hostilities against the rats, and blood, not
meow me meeoooooow meeeeeoooow meeeoow mew meow, mew meoow, mew

butter-milk, became her war-cry. One day as she sat admiring herself in
meeeow-meow, meeeow mew mew-mew. Mew mew me mew mew meeeeoow meeooow me

the glass, a large rat unexpectedly appeared in the kitchen; and although
mew meoow, m meoow mew meeeeeeeeoow meooooow me mew meeeoow; mew meeoooow

but little larger than himself, Kittie at once gave chase, not only to his
mew meeoow meeoow meow meeeeow, Meeoow me meow meow meoow, mew meow me mew

hole, but into his hole. For the next three minutes the squeaking was
meow, mew meow mew meow. Mew mew meow meeow meeeeow mew meeeeeoow mew

quite harrowing to listen to; but presently pussy re-appeared stern
meoow meoooooow me meeoow me; mew meeooooow meoow me-meeeooow meeow

foremost, and dragging with her the rat--dead. This she deposited before
meeoooow, mew meeoooow meow mew mew mew--meow. Meow mew meeeeeoow meooow

the fire, growling whenever any one went near it, as much as to say, “Lay
mew meow, meeeooow meeeeeow mew mew meow meow me, me meow me me mew, “Mew

but a finger on it, and you yourself may expect to pay the same penalty
mew m meeoow me me, mew mew meeeooow mew meooow me mew mew meow meoooow

for your rashness.” The little thing, indeed, seemed swelling with pride
mew meow meooooow.” Mew meeoow meeow, meeeow, meeoow meeeeoow meow meoow

and importance, and must have felt considerably bigger than an ordinary
mew meeeooooow, mew meow meow meow meeeeeeoooow meeoow meow me meeoooow

sized ox, and as fierce as a Bengal tiger. In one moment she had bounded
meeow me, mew me meeoow me m Meooow meoow. Me mew meeoow mew mew meoooow

from kit to cat-hood. Buttermilk and a looking-glass! Bah! Blood alone
meow mew me mew-meow. Meeeooooow mew m meoooow-meoow! Mew! Meoow meeow

could satisfy her ambition now.
meoow meeeoow mew meeoooow mew.




Little Muffie was left that night in sole charge of the kitchen, and next
Meeoow Meeeow mew meow meow meoow me meow meeoow me mew meoooow, mew meow

morning, no less than five large rats, lay side by side on the hearth, as
meeeeow, me meow meow meow meeow meow, mew meow me meow me mew meeeow, me

if waiting a _post mortem_, and wee pussie, with her white breast dabbled
me meeeeow m meeow meeeeow, mew mew meooow, meow mew meoow meooow meoooow

in gore, exhausted and asleep, lay beside them. In less than a week, she
me meow, meeeeeeow mew meeeow, mew meeoow meow. Me meow meow m meow, mew

had bagged upwards of forty, and no doubt wounded twice that number. And
mew meooow meoooow me meoow, mew me meeow meeooow meeow meow meeeow. Mew

now fear and consternation began to spread in the enemies’ camp. Such
mew meow mew meeeeeeeeooow meeow me meeoow me mew meeooow’ meow. Meow

doings had never been heard of among them, even traditionally. The oldest
meeoow mew meeow meow meeow me meoow meow, meow meeooooooooow. Mew meooow

inhabitant shook his grey muzzle, and gave it up; but added,--
meeeeeeoow meeow mew meow meeeow, mew meow me me; mew meeow,--




“Friends, brethren, rodents! it is time to shift. No one knows whose turn
“Meeeoow, meeeooow, meeeoow! me me meow me meeow. Me mew meeow meeow meow

may come next. True, it is a pity to leave such jolly quarters, when
mew meow meow. Meow, me me m meow me meeow meow meeow meeeooow, meow

everything was going on so pleasantly. We have seen our fattest wives and
meeeeoooow mew meeow me me meeoooooow. Me meow meow mew meeeoow meoow mew

our biggest braves borne off; our helpless babes have not been safe from
mew meeeeow meooow meoow mew; mew meeeeeow meoow meow mew meow meow meow

the clutches of that dreaded monster, with the ferocity of a fiend in the
mew meooooow me meow meeeoow meeooow, meow mew meeeeoow me m meoow me mew

skin of a mouse, and lest worst befall us, _go we must_.”
meow me m meoow, mew meow meeow meeeow me, mew me meoow.”




And go they did.
Mew me meow mew.




Old Tom Riddle, the parish clerk, who might have been seen any night,
Mew Mew Meeoow, mew meeeow meoow, mew meeow meow meow meow mew meeow,

staggering homewards in the short hours, was well-nigh scared out of the
meeeeeeeow meeeeooow me mew meeow meeow, mew meow-meow meeoow mew me mew

little wits that remained to him, by meeting, as he said,--
meeeow meow meow meeeeeow me mew, me meoooow, me me meow,--




“Thoosands upon thoosands o’ rottens, haudin’ up the road in the direction
“Meeooooow meow meeeeeeow m’ meeooow, meeoow’ me mew meow me mew meeeeeoow

o’ the farm o’ Brockenclough.”
m’ mew meow m’ Meeeeooooooow.”




“Confoond it,” he added, when some one ventured to cast a doubt on his
“Meooooow me,” me meoow, meow meow mew meeeeeow me meow m meoow me mew

statement; “wasn’t it bright moonlicht, and didn’t I see them wi’ my ain
meeeeeoow; “meow’m me meeeow meeeeooow, mew meow’m M mew meow me’ me mew

een, carryin’ their wee anes in their mooths, and leadin’ their blin’ wi’
mew, meoooow’ meoow mew meow me meoow meooow, mew meeeow’ meoow meow’ me’

a strae?”
m meoow?”




Whether old Tom exaggerated or not is hard to say; but sure enough, next
Meeooow mew Mew meeeeeeooow me mew me meow me mew; mew meow meeeow, meow

morning there was not a rat to be seen or heard about my father’s
meeeoow meoow mew mew m mew me me meow me meoow meeow me meooow’m

premises; and it is likewise correct that about the same time, the honest
meeeooow; mew me me meooooow meeeeow meow meoow mew meow meow, mew meeeow

farmer of Brockenclough, began to complain loudly of the destruction by
meeeow me Meeeeeeeeeeow, meoow me meeeooow meeeow me mew meeeeeoooow me

these gentry of his straw and oats. “He liked,” he said, “to see a few o’
meoow meooow me mew meeow mew meow. “Me meeow,” me meow, “me mew m mew m’

the beasties rinnin’ aboot a farm-toon. That was a sign o’ plenty; but
mew meeeeeow meeoow’ meeow m meow-meow. Meow mew m meow m’ meeoow; mew

when they could be counted by the score, it fairly beat cock-fechtin.”
meow meow meoow me meeooow me mew meeow, me meooow meow meow-meeeoow.”




For the next twelve months of her existence, Muffie led a very quiet and
Mew mew meow meeoow meeoow me mew meeeeeeow, Meooow mew m meow meoow mew

peaceful life. She was now in her prime--and a more beautifully marked
meeoooow meow. Mew mew mew me mew meoow--mew m meow meeeeeeeeow meeoow

tabby it would have been difficult to imagine--but, as yet, no male of her
meeow me meoow meow meow meeeoooow me meeeoow--mew, me mew, me meow me mew

species had gained her youthful affections. But her time soon came, for
meeeoow mew meeoow mew meeoooow meeeeeeoow. Mew mew meow meow meow, mew

strolling one day in the woods, trying to pick up a nice fat linnet for
meeeeooow mew mew me mew meeow, meeeow me meow me m meow mew meeeow mew

her dinner, Muffie met her fate, and her fate followed her home even to
mew meeeow, Meooow mew mew meow, mew mew meow meeoooow mew meow meow me

the garden gate, then darted off again to his native woodland. His history
mew meeeow meow, meow meeoow mew meeow me mew meeeow meeoooow. Mew meeeeow

was briefly this. He was not born of respectable parentage, and I
mew meeeeow meow. Me mew mew meow me meeeeeeeoow meeeeeeow, mew M

question, too, whether his parents, were at all more honest than they
meeoooow, mew, meeeeow mew meeooow, meow me mew meow meooow meow meow

ought to have been. His mother was a half-wild animal, brought by a
meeow me meow meow. Mew meeeow mew m meow-meow meooow, meeeeow me m

half-cracked colonel from the West Indies, and she bore him in the woods,
meow-meoooow meeeeow meow mew Meow Meooow, mew mew meow mew me mew meeow,

and there she suckled and reared him, and it was no doubt owing to the
mew meeow mew meeooow mew meeoow mew, mew me mew me meoow meeow me mew

wild gipsy life he led, and the amount of freedom and fresh air he
meow meeow meow me mew, mew mew meeeow me meeeoow mew meoow mew me

enjoyed, that he grew so fine an animal. At any rate, I never have seen
meeeeow, meow me meow me meow me meooow. Me mew meow, M meoow meow meow

his match. An immense red tabby he was, with short ears on a massive head,
mew meeow. Me meoooow mew meeow me mew, meow meeow meow me m meeeoow meow,

splendid eyes, and a tail that no wild cat need have been ashamed of.
meeeeeow meow, mew m meow meow me meow mew meow meow meow meeeoow me.

Muffie and her lover used to hold their meetings in the ruins of an old
Meeoow mew mew meeow meow me meow meoow meeoooow me mew meeow me me mew

house near a wood, and my brothers and I made a rash vow, to attempt the
meeow meow m meow, mew me meeeooow mew M meow m meow mew, me meeooow mew

capture of the beautiful stranger in this same building. Accordingly, one
meeeeow me mew meeeeooow meeeeeow me meow meow meeeeeow. Meeeeeeooow, mew

fine moonlight night, missing Lady Muff, and guessing she was on the
meow meeeeooow meeow, meeeeow Meow Meow, mew meooooow mew mew me mew

spoon, we sallied out and made our way to the ruin. My brothers were told
meeow, me meoooow mew mew meow mew mew me mew meow. Me meooooow meow meow

off to guard the door and windows, and on me alone devolved the somewhat
mew me meoow mew meow mew meoooow, mew me me meoow meeoooow mew meeeeeow

unpleasant duty, of bagging the cat. With this intention I entered as
meeoooooow meow, me meeooow mew mew. Meow meow meoooooow M meoooow me

cautiously as a mouse, and sure enough there sat the happy pair,
meeeooooow me m meeow, mew meow meooow meeow mew mew meoow meow,

contentedly, on the cold hearthstone. So engrossed were they in looking at
meeeeeeooow, me mew meow meeeoooooow. Me meeeoooow meow meow me meeeoow me

each other, that they never perceived me until quite close upon them.
meow meeow, meow meow meeow meeeeooow me meoow meeow meoow meow meow.

With the agility of a young monkey, I threw myself on the Tom-cat and
Meow mew meeooow me m meoow meeeow, M meoow meooow me mew Mew-mew mew

seized him by the back. That is exactly what _I_ did. His proceedings were
meeoow mew me mew meow. Meow me meeeoow meow MEW mew. Mew meoooooooow meow

somewhat different, and considerably more to the point, for after making
meeoooow meeeoooow, mew meeeeeeeeoow meow me mew meeow, mew meoow meeoow

his four teeth meet in the fleshy part of my middle finger, he slid from
mew meow meoow meow me mew meeeow meow me me meeoow meooow, me meow meow

my grasp like a conger-eel, and went hand over hand up the chimney,
me meoow meow m meeoow-mew, mew meow meow meow meow me mew meoooow,

followed by the justly indignant Lady Muff,--and I was left lamenting. For
meeeooow me mew meeeow meoooooow Meow Meow,--mew M mew meow meeeeeeow. Mew

the next six weeks, I had the satisfaction of going to school with my arm
mew meow mew meeow, M mew mew meeoooooooow me meoow me meooow meow me mew

in a sling. I say satisfaction, because my misfortune was the cause of a
me m meeow. M mew meeoooooooow, meeeoow me meeeeeooow mew mew meoow me m

great alteration, in the manner of the schoolmaster towards me. Previously
meoow meeeeeeeow, me mew meeoow me mew meeoooooooow meeeoow me. Meeoooooow

it was usual with me to be thrashed “_ter die_, and well shaken,” which
me mew meeow meow me me me meeeeeow “meow meow, mew meow meeeow,” meoow

was not at all nice on a winter’s day; but now all this was changed, and I
mew mew me mew meow me m meeoow’m mew; mew mew mew meow mew meeeeow, mew M

was not beaten at all. The pedagogue spoke to me subduedly, and with a
mew mew meooow me mew. Mew meeeeeoow meeow me me meeooooow, mew meow m

certain amount of conciliatory awe in his manner, and I observed that he
meeeoow meeoow me meooooooooow mew me mew meeoow, mew M meooooow meow me

always kept a chair or form between my person and his, lest I should at
meeoow meow m meoow me meow meeeoow me meooow mew mew, meow M meeoow me

any time take hydrophobia without giving sufficient warning, and bite the
mew meow meow meeeeooooow meeooow meeoow meeeeeeoow meeeeow, mew meow mew

poor man. Seeing how well the sling worked, I did not hesitate to wear it,
meow mew. Meeeow mew meow mew meeow meooow, M mew mew meeeeoow me meow me,

for fully a month after my hand was quite healed, with the exception of
mew meoow m meoow meeow me meow mew meeow meeoow, meow mew meeeeeeow me

the cicatrices, which the grave only will obliterate.
mew meeoooooow, meeow mew meeow meow meow meeeeeeeow.




Although beaten in our first efforts, we did not give up the idea of
Meeeooow meeeow me mew meoow meeooow, me mew mew meow me mew meow me

capturing this vagabond Tom-tabby, yet it was only through the
meeeeeoow meow meeoooow Mew-meoow, mew me mew meow meeeoow mew

instrumentality of Muffie, we eventually succeeded. We kept her at home,
meeeeeeeeeeeoow me Meeoow, me meeeeeooow meoooooow. Me meow mew me meow,

put a saucer-full of creamy milk in a shady nook of the garden for her
mew m meeoow-meow me meooow meow me m meeow meow me mew meeoow mew mew

lover, and whenever he appeared, which he always did at the hour of
meeow, mew meeoooow me meeeeoow, meoow me meooow mew me mew meow me

gloaming, his betrothed was permitted to meet him, and although he
meeoooow, mew meeeeooow mew meeeeeoow me meow mew, mew meeoooow me

invariably beseeched her to fly with him, she was prevented from acceding
meeoooooow meeeeeoow mew me mew meow mew, mew mew meeeeooow meow meeeeeow

to his very reasonable request, by being tethered to a gooseberry bush by
me mew meow meeeeeeoow meeeeow, me meeow meeoooow me m meeeooooow meow me

a long string. Love and time tamed this feline Ingomar. He left his abode
m meow meooow. Meow mew meow meoow meow meooow Meeooow. Me meow mew meeow

in the forest, exchanged the wild-wood’s shade for the stable’s roof,
me mew meeeow, meeeoooow mew meow-meow’m meeow mew mew meooow’m meow,

bartered his freedom for the ties of matrimony, or catrimony,--in short,
meeoooow mew meeeoow mew mew meow me meeeeeoow, me meoooooow,--me meoow,

he married Muffie, adopted civilisation, and became barn-cat _par
me meeeoow Meeeow, meeooow meeeooooooow, mew meeoow meow-mew meow

excellence_. But no amount of persuasion could ever entice him into the
meoooooooow. Mew me meeoow me meeeeeeeow meeow meow meeoow mew meow mew

dwelling-house, nor did he ever suffer a human finger to pollute his fur.
meeeooow-meeow, mew mew me meow meooow m meoow meeeow me meeooow mew mew.




I am sorry to say that Ingomar did not at all times behave well to his
M me meeow me mew meow Meoooow mew mew me mew meeow meeeow meow me mew

wife; in fact, at times he was a brute. It was his pleasure that she
meow; me meow, me meoow me mew m meeow. Me mew mew meooooow meow mew

should sit for hours together in the garden, simply that he might look at
meeeow mew mew meoow meeeeoow me mew meeoow, meeeow meow me meeow meow me

her; if she as much as hinted at retiring, he treated her exactly as the
mew; me mew me meow me meeeow me meeeooow, me meoooow mew meeeoow me mew

Lancashire clod-hoppers do their wives,--he knocked her down and jumped
Meeeooooow meow-meeooow me meeow meeow,--me meoooow mew meow mew meeeow

upon her. Muffie had five bonnie kittens, and she put them to bed on the
meow mew. Meeoow mew meow meooow meeooow, mew mew mew meow me mew me mew

parlour sofa. Ingomar detested refinement as much as Rob Roy did.
meeeeow meow. Meeeeow meeeeeow meeeeeooow me meow me Mew Mew mew.




“The sons of McGregor, weavers! Bring those kittens forth, and place them
“Mew meow me MeEeeeow, meeeoow! Meeow meoow meeooow meoow, mew meeow meow

here on straw; _I_ will see to their rearing.”
meow me meeow; MEW meow mew me meoow meeeeow.”




That is what Ingomar said, and Muffie mutely complied; and those kittens
Meow me meow Meeeeow meow, mew Meeeow meeeow meeeeeow; mew meoow meoooow

grew up as wild as himself. From sparrows they got to chickens, from
meow me me meow me meeooow. Meow meeeooow meow mew me meeeeoow, meow

chickens to grouse and game generally, and then got into trouble with the
meooooow me meooow mew meow meeeeeoow, mew meow mew meow meeeoow meow mew

keeper, and had the worst of the argument, which on his part was
meeoow, mew mew mew meeow me mew meeeeeow, meeow me mew meow mew

double-barrelled. In the early days of his betrothal, Ingomar threw
meeoow-meeeeeeow. Me mew meoow meow me mew meeeeooow, Meeeeow meeow

daisies at his beloved, and gambolled with her in mimic strife, but
meeeeow me mew meeeoow, mew meeeeeeow meow mew me meeow meooow, mew

latterly his song was hushed at eventide, and spits and clouts and flying
meeeeoow mew meow mew meeeow me meeeeoow, mew meoow mew meooow mew meeoow

fluff were too often the order of the day.
meeow meow mew meoow mew meeow me mew mew.




Poor Ingomar! He was cut down in his prime--slain by a wretched
Meow Meeeoow! Me mew mew meow me mew meoow--meoow me m meooooow

collie-dog. Slowly and sadly we bore him in, his beautiful fur all dabbled
meooow-mew. Meooow mew meoow me meow mew me, mew meeeoooow mew mew meeeeow

in blood, and his once bright eyes fast glazing in death, and tenderly
me meoow, mew mew meow meeeow meow meow meeeoow me meeow, mew meeeeeow

laid him at the widowed Muffie’s feet. Now listen to the remarkable
meow mew me mew meeeoow Meeeow’m meow. Mew meeeow me mew meeeooooow

behaviour of that lady. The widowed Muffie did not weep, neither, in
meoooooow me meow meow. Mew meeeeow Meeeow mew mew meow, meoooow, me

consequence of not weeping, did she die; she did an attitude though, then
meeeeooooow me mew meeeeow, mew mew mew; mew mew me meeeooow meeoow, meow

growled and spat, and spitting growled again, and finally gave vent to her
meoooow mew meow, mew meeoooow meeeoow meoow, mew meoooow meow meow me mew

feelings by springing through the parlour window and escaping to the
meeeooow me meeeeeeow meoooow mew meoooow meeoow mew meeeooow me mew

woods. And here with shame and sorrow for female inconstancy, but in the
meoow. Mew meow meow meeow mew meeeow mew meeoow meeeeeeooow, mew me mew

interests of truth be it written, not only did Muffie not remain long a
meeooooow me meoow me me meoooow, mew meow mew Meooow mew meeoow meow m

widow, but that brief widowhood even, was stained by many acts of levity
meoow, mew meow meoow meeeeeoow meow, mew meeeeow me meow meow me meeoow

to the memory of the murdered Ingomar. His skin beautifully preserved
me mew meooow me mew meeeeoow Meeeeow. Mew meow meeeeeeeoow meeeeooow

(by--[12]), that skin she did not hesitate to use as a mat, nay, she even
(me--[me]), meow meow mew mew mew meeeeoow me mew me m mew, mew, mew meow

_gambolled with the tail of it_; and although she often paid a visit to
meooooooow meow mew meow me mew; mew meeeooow mew meeow meow m meoow me

her husband’s grave, it was not to weep she went there, no! but literally
mew meeooow’m meoow, me mew mew me meow mew meow meoow, me! mew meeooooow

to _dance on the top of it_. Such is life! Such are relicts!!
me meooow me mew mew me mew. Meow me meow! Meow mew meeooow!!




The rest of this pussy’s life was entirely uneventful. One circumstance
Mew meow me meow meeow’m meow mew meeeooow meeeeoooow. Mew meeeeeeoooow

only deserves relating. She was exceedingly fond of me, in fact quite
meow meeeooow meooooow. Mew mew meeooooooow meow me me, me meow meeow

adored me. Oh! that is nothing, other females have done the same; but
meeoow me. Me! meow me meoooow, meeow meeeoow meow meow mew meow; mew

Muffie did, what I daresay other females wouldn’t,--she at any time would
Meeeow mew, meow M meeooow meoow meoooow meooow’m,--mew me mew meow meeow

eat a little bit of the end of a candle, or a bit of greased peat from my
mew m meeeow mew me mew mew me m meeeow, me m mew me meeeeow meow meow me

hand, while refusing beef-steak or cream from any one else. When I was
meow, meeow meeeeoow meow-meeow me meeow meow mew mew meow. Meow M mew

sent to a distant school, and could only visit my home once a week or
meow me m meeooow meeeow, mew meeow meow meoow me meow meow m meow me

fortnight, the house bereft of me had no longer any charms for poor
meeeeeoow, mew meeow meeoow me me mew me meeeow mew meeoow mew meow

Muffie, and she took to the woods. Perhaps she enjoyed rambling amid
Meooow, mew mew meow me mew meeow. Meeooow mew meoooow meeeeoow meow

scenes hallowed by the recollection of her early love. She seldom returned
meeeow meooooow me mew meeeeeeeooow me mew meeow meow. Mew meeoow meooooow

home until the day of my accustomed arrival, when she was always there to
meow meeow mew mew me me meeeooooow meoooow, meow mew mew meeeow meoow me

welcome me. Now that she should have known the usual day for my appearance
meeeeow me. Mew meow mew meeoow meow meoow mew meoow mew mew me meeeeeooow

was nothing remarkable, but it was strange that, if anything interfered
mew meoooow meeeeeeoow, mew me mew meeeeow meow, me meeeeeow meeeeeeoow

with my coming, puss was also absent, nor did my arrival on any other day
meow me meeeow, meow mew meow meeeow, mew mew me meeeoow me mew meoow mew

prevent her from being at home at least an hour before me. One day--alas!
meoooow mew meow meeow me meow me meeow me meow meeeow me. Mew mew--meow!

that one day that _must_ come to all created things--my Muffie was not
meow mew mew meow meooow meow me mew meoooow meeeow--me Meeeow mew mew

there to meet me, and she never came again. After a long search I found
meoow me meow me, mew mew meoow meow meoow. Meeow m meow meooow M meoow

her beneath a tree, stark and stiff. Her gentle eyes were closed for aye!
mew meeeeow m meow, meeow mew meeow. Mew meooow meow meow meeoow mew mew!

I would never feel again her soft caress, nor hear her low loving
M meoow meeow meow meeow mew meow meooow, mew meow mew mew meeeow

purr--dear Muffie was _dead_.
meow--meow Meooow mew meeeow.




But dry your eyes, gentle lady, and listen to the story of
Mew mew meow meow, meeoow meow, mew meeoow me mew meeow me







MUFFIE THE SECOND.
MEOOOW MEW MEEEOW.




I call my present cat Muffie, partly in remembrance of my old favourite,
M meow me meeooow mew Meeeow, meeoow me meeeeeeeoow me me mew meeeoooow,

and partly because I think it such a cosy little name for a pet puss.
mew meeeow meeeeow M meeow me meow m meow meooow meow mew m mew meow.

Bless her little heart, she is sitting on my shoulder while I write, and
Meoow mew meooow meeow, mew me meeeeow me me meeoooow meeow M meoow, mew

no slight burden either, her fighting weight being something over twelve
me meeoow meeoow meeoow, mew meeeeoow meeoow meeow meeeeeeow meow meeoow

pounds. A splendid tabby, she is evenly and prettily marked; her lovely
meooow. M meooooow meoow, mew me meeeow mew meeoooow meeoow; mew meeeow

face vandyked with white, and her nose tipped with crimson, like a
meow meeeeeow meow meoow, mew mew meow meooow meow meoooow, meow m

mountain daisy. She is six years of age, and the mother of over one
meeeooow meeow. Mew me mew meeow me mew, mew mew meeeow me meow mew

hundred kittens. Three-fourths of these have found respectable
meeooow meeeoow. Meoow-meeeoow me meeow meow meoow meoooooooow

homes,--most of them were bespoken before birth,--and if they have only
meeow,--meow me meow meow meooooow meeoow meeow,--mew me meow meow meow

been half as prolific as their mother, Muffie must be progenitor of
meow meow me meeeeoow me meeow meeeow, Meooow meow me meooooooow me

thousands.
meeeoooow.




[Illustration: WHITE.
[Meeeeeeoooow: MEOOW.




First Prize--Owned by R. H. YOUNG, ESQ.]
Meoow Meoow--Meoow me M. M. MEEOW, MEW.]




[Illustration: BLACK.
[Meeeeoooooow: MEOOW.




First Prize--Owned by Mr. J. HARPER.]
Meeow Meeow--Meeow me Me. M. MEOOOW.]




A very ambitious kitten you were, too, my pretty Muff. I first picked you
M meow meeooooow meeeow mew meow, mew, me meeeow Meow. M meoow meeeow mew

up at an hotel, when no bigger than a ball of worsted. Your brothers and
me me me meoow, meow me meeoow meow m meow me meeooow. Meow meeeeeow mew

sisters, and even your big ugly mother turned and fled, but you stood and
meeeeow, mew meow meow mew meow meeeow meeeow mew meow, mew mew meoow mew

spat--didn’t you, puss? and that fetched me. Your favourite seat, too, was
meow--meow’m mew, meow? mew meow meeeoow me. Meow meeeeeoow meow, mew, mew

the top of the parlour door; and during the first twelve months of your
mew mew me mew meeooow meow; mew meeeow mew meeow meeoow meooow me meow

existence, sure didn’t you tear to pieces three sets of window curtains?
meeeeooow, meow meow’m mew meow me meeoow meoow meow me meeeow meeeeoow?

didn’t you smash all the flowerpots? weren’t you constantly clutching
meow’m mew meeow mew mew meooooooow? meoow’m mew meeeeoooow meeeeeoow

down the table-cloth and breaking the china and glass, running along the
meow mew meoow-meoow mew meeeeeow mew meeow mew meoow, meeeoow meeow mew

key-board of the piano, and jumping down the stool? What chance did a silk
mew-meeow me mew meeow, mew meeeoow meow mew meoow? Meow meooow mew m meow

umbrella stand with you? What hope of existence had my patent-leather
meeoooow meeow meow mew? Meow meow me meeeeooow mew me meeoow-meeeoow

boots? Was it fair to catch flies on my “Sunset on Arran” before the paint
meeow? Mew me meow me meeow meeow me me “Meeoow me Meeow” meeoow mew meeow

was dry? Was it right to upset my ink-bottle on the table-cloth, or to
mew mew? Mew me meoow me meoow me mew-meooow me mew meoow-meeow, me me

break the head off my praying Samuel, which head you coolly made a mouse
meoow mew meow mew me meeeoow Meeoow, meeow meow mew meooow meow m meeow

of, and finally hid in my shoe? Or was it at all proper to make such
me, mew meeooow mew me me meow? Me mew me me mew meeoow me meow meow

earnest, though happily unsuccessful, endeavours to hook your master’s
meeooow, meeeow meeeoow meooooooooow, meeeooooow me meow meow meeeow’m

eyes out as soon as he opened them in the morning? But marriage sobered
meow mew me meow me me meeoow meow me mew meeeeow? Mew meeoooow meeeoow

you, Muffie; and I never can forget the extreme joy you manifested on the
mew, Meooow; mew M meoow mew meeoow mew meoooow mew mew meeeeeeeow me mew

birth of your first kittens. Your first idea, I’m told, was to make
meeow me meow meeow meoooow. Meow meeow meow, M’m meow, mew me meow

“mousies” of them; then you thought of eating them. But how anxiously you
“meeeeow” me meow; meow mew meeeoow me meeeow meow. Mew mew meeeeeeow mew

waited my arrival on that auspicious morning. You came twice to my bedroom
meeoow me meeeoow me meow meeeooooow meeeeow. Mew meow meoow me me meeeoow

to hurry me down, and I dared not stop to shave. Then each kitten in
me meoow me meow, mew M meeow mew meow me meeow. Meow meow meeoow me

succession was held up between your forepaws to receive its just meed of
meeeeoooow mew meow me meoooow meow meeeooow me meeooow mew meow meow me

admiration. But I hardly think, Miss Muff, your song of joy would have
meeoooooow. Mew M meeeow meoow, Meow Meow, meow meow me mew meeow meow

been quite so loud and jubilant, had you known I was selecting two to
meow meeow me meow mew meeeooow, mew mew meeow M mew meeeoooow mew me

drown. And each succeeding period since then, you have tried to have your
meeow. Mew meow meeeeoooow meeoow meeow meow, mew meow meeow me meow meow

kittens in my bed, and twice you have been only too successful. There,
meeeeow me me mew, mew meoow mew meow meow meow mew meeeeeeoow. Meeow,

now, go down, my shoulder aches; besides, I have to address the British
mew, me meow, me meeeeeow meoow; meeooow, M meow me meeeeow mew Meoooow

public.
meeoow.




Muffie, like her master, has been a wanderer,--and she prefers it. To her,
Meeeow, meow mew meeeow, mew meow m meeeeoow,--mew mew meeeoow me. Me mew,

home and master are synonymous terms. Were I to make my bed in the midst
meow mew meeeow mew meeeooooow meeow. Meow M me meow me mew me mew meeow

of a highland moor, she would not desert me. If I were to place my
me m meeeeeow meow, mew meoow mew meeoow me. Me M meow me meeow me

sea-chest on the top of dark Loch-na-gar,--and that would be no easy
mew-meoow me mew mew me meow Meow-me-mew,--mew meow meeow me me meow

matter,--and leave it there for a month, I should find Muffie on the top
meooow,--mew meeow me meoow mew m meoow, M meeeow meow Meeoow me mew mew

of it when I returned.
me me meow M meeeooow.




It might very naturally be supposed, that a cat would form but a poor
Me meoow meow meeeeeeow me meeeeoow, meow m mew meoow meow mew m meow

travelling companion, and be rather troublesome. It is all custom, I
meeeeeeoow meoooooow, mew me meooow meeeeeeooow. Me me mew meooow, M

suppose. Miss Muff, at the smallest computation, must have travelled
meeooow. Meow Meow, me mew meooooow meeeeooooow, meow meow meoooooow

nearly 20,000 miles with me; and she can always take care of herself much
meeeow me,mew meoow meow me; mew mew mew meeoow meow meow me meeeeow meow

better than a dog can. From constant experience, she has become quite
meeoow meow m mew mew. Meow meeoooow meeeeeeoow, mew mew meeoow meoow

cosmopolitan in her habits. On the evening before “flitting day” she is
meeeeeeeeeow me mew meeoow. Me mew meoooow meeeow “meeeeoow mew” mew me

more than usually active, ambling round and snuffing at each box as it is
meow meow meeeoow meeoow, meeeeow meoow mew meooooow me meow mew me me me

being packed, and rubbing her shoulder against it, singing all the while
meoow meeeow, mew meeooow mew meooooow meeooow me, meeooow mew mew meeow

in a most exhilarating manner. As night closes, she, as a rule, with few
me m meow meeeeeeeeeow meeoow. Me meeow meeoow, mew, me m meow, meow mew

exceptions, disappears for a time, going most likely to bid good-bye to
meeeeoooow, meeeeeooow mew m meow, meeow meow meooow me mew meow-mew me

her friends, whom she seldom sees again in this world, but never fails to
mew meoooow, meow mew meeeow meow meeow me meow meoow, mew meeow meeow me

be back early in the morning, when, after a hurried breakfast, she curls
me meow meeow me mew meeeoow, meow, meeow m meeooow meoooooow, mew meoow

herself up in her little travelling “creel,” and goes quietly off to
meeooow me me mew meeeow meeeeeeoow “meoow,” mew meow meeeeow mew me

sleep. In a railway-carriage or steam-boat, she is allowed to roam about
meoow. Me m meeeoow-meeeeeow me meeow-meow, mew me meoooow me meow meeow

at her own sweet will; but by night her place is by her master’s side, and
me mew mew meoow meow; mew me meeow mew meeow me me mew meeoow’m meow, mew

a more faithful watch he could not have. On arriving at an hotel, after
m meow meeeeeow meeow me meeow mew meow. Me meooooow me me meoow, meeow

dinner pussy is permitted to go out to see the place. The first night of
meooow meeow me meeeeeeow me me mew me mew mew meeow. Mew meoow meeow me

her sojourn in a strange town, is always spent by Muffie in the open air;
mew meeeeow me m meeeeow meow, me meeoow meeow me Meooow me mew meow mew;

and, wonderful to relate, she always enters in the morning by the _front
mew, meeeoooow me meooow, mew meooow meeeow me mew meeeeow me mew meooow

door_, although put out at the back. How she can find her way round with
meeow, meeeeeow mew mew me mew meow. Mew mew mew meow mew mew meoow meow

accuracy, sometimes a distance of half a mile of strange streets, or how
meooooow, meeooooow m meeeooow me meow m meow me meeeeow meoooow, me mew

she can tell the hotel door from any other, I cannot say; but she does.
mew mew meow mew meeow meow meow mew meeow, M meeoow mew; mew mew meow.

Once I gave her basket in charge of a railway porter at a London station,
Meow M meow mew meeeow me meeeow me m meeeeow meeeow me m Meooow meoooow,

to take upstairs while I got my own ticket and the dog’s. The poor fellow
me meow meeeeeow meeow M mew me mew meooow mew mew mew’m. Mew meow meooow

soon returned with bleeding face and hands, to say that the cat had
meow meooooow meow meeeeoow meow mew meeow, me mew meow mew mew mew

escaped and disappeared in the crowd. There was no time to wait to look
meeeeow mew meeeeeeeoow me mew meoow. Meeow mew me meow me meow me meow

for her, my luggage was on board, and the train about to start, so I
mew mew, me meeeeow mew me meeow, mew mew meoow meeow me meoow, me M

hurried off to take my seat. Very much to my surprise, I was hailed from a
meeeoow mew me meow me meow. Meow meow me me meooooow, M mew meeoow meow m

first-class carriage by my pet herself, who appeared rejoiced to see me,
meeow-meeow meeoooow me me mew meoooow, mew meeeeeow meeeeeow me mew me,

and indeed was much more calm and self-possessed, under the circumstances,
mew meeoow mew meow meow meow mew meow-meeeeooow, meoow mew meeeoooooooow,

than her master.
meow mew meeoow.




Once, in a strange town--Liverpool,--Muffie disappeared in the most
Meow, me m meeeeow meow--Meeeeooow,--Meeeow meeeeeoooow me mew meow

mysterious manner, and was absent for three whole weeks. From some words
meeeeeeoow meooow, mew mew meeeow mew meeow meoow meoow. Meow meow meeow

that I had heard the landlady’s son drop, I suspected foul play; so I went
meow M mew meeow mew meeeeoow’m mew meow, M meoooooow meow meow; me M meow

straight to the offices of the City Scavengering Department to prefer a
meeeeeow me mew meeeeow me mew Meow Meeeeoooooow Meeeeeeeow me meeoow m

very modest request, viz., to have all the ashpits cleaned out within a
meow meeeow meeeoow, mew., me meow mew mew meoooow meeooow mew meooow m

certain radius of my lodgings.
meeeeow meooow me me meooooow.




“All this work for a cat!” said the chief inspector. “Why, such a thing
“Mew meow meow mew m mew!” meow mew meoow meeeeeoow. “Mew, meow m meeow

has no precedent;” and he smiled at my cheek, I suppose.
mew me meeeeeoow;” mew me meooow me me meeow, M meoooow.




“But,” said I, “you can make this case the precedent; and it is so
“Mew,” meow M, “mew mew meow meow meow mew meoooooow; mew me me me

valuable a cat, you know.”
meeeooow m mew, mew meow.”




Aid came from an unexpected quarter. One of the officers was a Scotchman,
Mew meow meow me meeeeeeoow meeooow. Mew me mew meeeeoow mew m Meoooooow,

and took my part like everything. Valuable property, he argued, had been
mew meow me meow meow meeoooooow. Meeeeeow meeeeeow, me meeeow, mew meow

stolen and destroyed; and if we should wait until the usual time for
meeeow mew meeeeeoow; mew me me meeoow meow meeow mew meoow meow mew

cleaning the ashpits, all hope of putting the blame on the right party,
meeeeeow mew meeeoow, mew meow me meeooow mew meeow me mew meoow meoow,

would be lost for ever.
meoow me meow mew meow.




“What chance,” said his good-natured chief, “have I against two of you?”
“Meow meooow,” meow mew meow-meeeoow meeow, “meow M meeooow mew me mew?”

So the order was given, and the ash-pits emptied. This took two or three
Me mew meoow mew meeow, mew mew mew-meow meeooow. Meow meow mew me meeow

mornings’ work, and many dead cats were found; in fact, every day I held a
meeeooow’ meow, mew meow meow meow meow meeow; me meow, meeow mew M meow m

post-mortem examination on one or two poor brutes, and of course the men
meow-meeoow meeeoooooow me mew me mew meow meooow, mew me meooow mew mew

wanted a glass of grog; so that the business cost me “a power” of rum. But
meeeow m meeow me meow; me meow mew meeeeeow meow me “m meoow” me mew. Mew

no dead Muffie appeared. In the meantime I had to go to London without my
me meow Meeeow meeeooow. Me mew meeeeeow M mew me me me Meeeow meoooow me

puss; and a few days after, Lady Muff likewise arrived by train. She had
meow; mew m mew meow meeow, Meow Meow meooooow meoooow me meeow. Mew mew

returned to my rooms at Liverpool, exactly three weeks from the day she
meeeeeow me me meoow me Meeooooow, meoooow meoow meoow meow mew mew mew

disappeared, and _had kittens one hour after_.
meeeeooooow, mew meow meeooow mew meow meeoow.




Muffie I do not think ever killed a mouse, although very fond of catching
Meeeow M me mew meoow meow meooow m meeow, meeeeeow meow meow me meeoooow

them. All she cares for is the sport. She invariably brings her little
meow. Mew mew meeow mew me mew meoow. Mew meeeooooow meooow mew meeeow

victim into my room, and placing it on the hearth-rug, looks up in my
meeeow meow me meow, mew meeeoow me me mew meeoow-mew, meoow me me me

face, and mews, as much as to say,--
meow, mew meow, me meow me me mew,--




“Just observe, master, the fun I shall have with this little cuss; and see
“Meow meeooow, meeeow, mew mew M meoow meow meow meow meooow meow; mew mew

what a clever mouser your Muff is.”
meow m meeoow meeoow meow Meow me.”




While she is saying this, the mouse has escaped, but is speedily
Meoow mew me meooow meow, mew meeow mew meeeoow, mew me meooooow

recaptured and returned to the rug. After throwing it up in the air two
meeeooooow mew meooooow me mew mew. Meoow meeoooow me me me mew mew mew

or three times, and catching it before it falls, the wee “cowering
me meeow meeow, mew meeeeoow me meooow me meeow, mew mew “meeeooow

timorous beastie” is left to its own freedom, Muffie walking away in a
meeeeeow meeooow” me meow me mew mew meeooow, Meeeow meeeeow meow me m

careless, meditative sort of mood, and the mousie makes good his escape.
meeoooow, meooooooow meow me meow, mew mew meeoow meoow meow mew meooow.

Not finding a hole, it hides below something, from under which something
Mew meeooow m meow, me meoow meeow meeeeeoow, meow meeow meoow meeeoooow

it is soon raked out again; and so the cruel game goes on, till the
me me meow meoow mew meoow; mew me mew meeow meow meow me, meow mew

trembling little creature, with its shiny eyes, grows sick with hope
meeeeeoow meeoow meeeooow, meow mew meeow meow, meoow meow meow meow

deferred, and faints away. Seeing this, pussy, after turning it over once
meooooow, mew meooow meow. Meeoow meow, meeow, meoow meeeoow me meow meow

or twice with mittened paw, jumps on my shoulder with a fond “purr-rn,”
me meeow meow meeeooow mew, meeow me me meeeeoow meow m meow “meow-me,”

and begins to sing. The play is over, and by-and-by the mouse revives, and
mew meeoow me meow. Mew meow me meow, mew me-mew-me mew meoow meeooow, mew

is graciously permitted to retire, which it sets about doing with becoming
me meeeooooow meeooooow me meeeow, meoow me meow meoow meoow meow meeeeeow

modesty, and an air at once subdued and deprecatory. Muffie is still on my
meeeoow, mew me mew me meow meeeoow mew meeeoooooow. Meeoow me meoow me me

shoulder, benignly singing. Their eyes meet, and a little dialogue ensues.
meeeeoow, meeoooow meeeoow. Meoow meow meow, mew m meooow meeoooow meeoow.

Mousie says, with hers,
Meeoow meow, meow meow,




“Oh! please, your ladyship, may I go, ma’am? I feel so all-overish; your
“Me! meooow, meow meooooow, mew M me, me’me? M meow me mew-meeooow; meow

claws are _so_ sharp, and your teeth so dreadful; and I’m but a little,
meeow mew meow meoow, mew meow meoow me meeeeeow; mew M’m mew m meeeow,

little mouse.”
meeoow meoow.”




To which pussy replies,--
Me meeow meoow meeooow,--




“Yes; you may go. I shan’t eat you to-day; only don’t do it again.”
“Mew; mew mew me. M meow’m mew mew me-mew; meow mew’m me me meoow.”




But why, you ask, should I permit such cruel sport? Because, intelligent
Mew mew, mew mew, meooow M meeeow meow meoow meeow? Meoooow, meoooooooow

and gentle reader, any interference of mine would change the play from a
mew meeeow meeeow, mew meeeeoooooow me meow meeow meooow mew meow meow m

comedy in the parlour to a tragedy in the cellar.
meeoow me mew meeeeow me m meeeoow me mew meeeow.




I have neither fishing nor hunting exploits to tell of about Muffie. She
M meow meeeeow meeooow mew meeeoow meeoooow me meow me meoow Meooow. Mew

is celebrated only as a great traveller, for her faithful devotion to her
me meooooooow meow me m meoow meeeoooow, mew mew meeeooow meeeeoow me mew

master, and for her care over even his property.
meeoow, mew mew mew meow meow meow mew meeoooow.




Last summer I spent a month in a beautiful sequestered village in
Meow meeoow M meoow m meeow me m meeeeeeow meeeeeeeeow meeooow me

Yorkshire. My companions were, as usual, my Newfoundland, Muffie, a pet
Meeeeeeow. Me meeeooooow meow, me meoow, me Meeeeeeeeeow, Meooow, m mew

starling, and another dog. Muffie is very much attached to this birdie,
meeeooow, mew meoooow mew. Meooow me meow meow meeeooow me meow meooow,

allowing it to hop about her, like a crow on a water buffalo. This
meeeeeow me me mew meoow mew, meow m meow me m meeow meeooow. Meow

starling, I think, is the most amusing little chap in all creation. He is
meeoooow, M meeow, me mew meow meeeoow meeoow meow me mew meeeeoow. Me me

a good linguist and an accomplished musician, and is never silent--if he
m meow meeeooow mew me meeeeoooooow meeeeeow, mew me meeow meeoow--me me

is, he is either asleep or doing mischief. As he says whatever comes into
me, me me meooow meeoow me meeow meeoooow. Me me meow meeeooow meeow meow

his head, and interlards his discourse with fragments of tunes and
mew meow, mew meeeeeooow mew meoooooow meow meeeoooow me meoow mew

Bravos! the effect is at times startling. The way he jumbles his nouns
Meeeow! mew meooow me me meeow meeeeeeow. Mew mew me meeeeow mew meoow

together, and trots out every adjective he knows, to qualify every noun,
meeeeeow, mew meoow mew meoow meeooooow me meeow, me meeeoow meeow meow,

is something worth listening to. In the summer evenings, we used to go out
me meoooooow meeow meeeeooow me. Me mew meeoow meooooow, me meow me me mew

for long rambles in the country lanes. The dog--Theodore Nero--felt
mew meow meeooow me mew meeeeow meoow. Mew mew--Meeeeeow Meow--meow

himself in duty bound on these occasions, not only to look after his
meeooow me meow meeow me meoow meoooooow, mew meow me meow meeow mew

master, but even to take the cat under his protection. The starling
meooow, mew meow me meow mew mew meeow mew meeeeeeeow. Mew meooooow

stalked flies from my shoulder. Sometimes he would stay longer
meeeoow meeow meow me meeeeeow. Meeeeooow me meoow meow meooow

snail-hunting, behind a hedge, than I deemed prudent; a glance from me was
meeow-meeeeow, meeeow m meeow, meow M meeeow meeeeow; m meeoow meow me mew

all Muffie wanted, to be after him. I would wait and listen; and presently
mew Meeeow meeoow, me me meoow mew. M meoow meow mew meeoow; mew meeeeooow

I would hear Dick excitedly exclaiming, “Eh? eh? What _is_ it?”--a
M meeow meow Meow meeeeooow meooooooow, “Me? me? Meow meow me?”--m

favourite expression of his: “What _is_ it? You rascal! you rascal!” and
meeeeeeow meooooooow me mew: “Meow meow me? Mew meeoow! mew meooow!” mew

back he would fly to his perch, apparently quite thunderstruck at the
meow me meeow mew me mew meoow, meeoooooow meoow meeeeeeeeeeow me mew

impudence of the cat.
meeeeooow me mew mew.




Muffie bids me say she is quite happy and all alive. And I would add, she
Meeoow meow me mew mew me meoow meoow mew mew meeow. Mew M meoow mew, mew

is very much all alive, most interestingly so, in fact. But that did not
me meow meow mew meeow, meow meeeoooooooow me, me meow. Mew meow mew mew

prevent her, last night, from preparing for me, what was doubtless meant
meeeeow mew, meow meeow, meow meoooooow mew me, meow mew meeeeeeow meoow

for a very pretty surprise and a high compliment. The cats in the
mew m meow meeeow meeeooow mew m meow meeeeoooow. Mew meow me mew

neighbourhood, hearing that I was writing a book in their favour, with
meeeeooooooow, meeeoow meow M mew meeeoow m meow me meoow meeeow, meow

Lady Muff as chief musician, resolved to serenade me; and they did. Being
Meow Meow me meoow meeeeeow, meeeeoow me meooooow me; mew meow mew. Meeow

Christmas eve, I took them for the waits at first. I am sorry now that I
Meeeeeoow mew, M meow meow mew mew meeow me meoow. M me meeow mew meow M

so far forgot myself, as to throw cold water over the assembly; but I
me mew meeoow meeoow, me me meoow meow meoow meow mew meooooow; mew M

sincerely trust that they did not know, that the gentleman in white, who
meeooooow meeow meow meow mew mew meow, meow mew meoooooow me meoow, mew

appeared on the balcony, and so unceremoniously checked their harmony, was
meeeeeow me mew meeooow, mew me meeeoooooooooow meeeeow meoow meoooow, mew

the illustrious author of “CATS.”
mew meeeeooooow meeoow me “MEOW.”













CHAPTER X.
MEEEEOW M.




BLACK TOM, THE SKIPPER’S IMP.
MEOOW MEW, MEW MEOOOOW’M MEW.







TOM’S INTRODUCTION.
MEW’M MEEEEEOOOOOW.




No one in the ship had the slightest idea how Tom came on board, or who
Me mew me mew meow mew mew meeeeeoow meow mew Mew meow me meoow, me mew

brought him, or where he came from. He made his first appearance in public
meeooow mew, me meoow me meow meow. Me meow mew meeow meeeeeeoow me meeoow

while, outward bound, we were crossing the Bay of Biscay--that strange
meoow, meeooow meeow, me meow meeeeeow mew Mew me Meooow--meow meeeeow

mysterious sea, beneath whose waves the bones of so many of our bravest
meeeeeeeow mew, meeeoow meoow meoow mew meoow me me meow me mew meeeeow

countrymen lie bleaching. It was a roughish night, squally rather, without
meeeeeooow mew meeeeeeow. Me mew m meeeooow meoow, meeeeow meeoow, meeeeow

much sea on, but the wind changing its mind every minute, whisking into
meow mew me, mew mew meow meeeeeow mew meow meeow meooow, meooooow meow

foam the crests of the inky waves, and carrying the spray far into the
meow mew meeoow me mew meow meoow, mew meeeeeow mew meoow mew meow mew

rigging. It was a night to try the sea-legs of any one, so jerky and
meoooow. Me mew m meoow me mew mew mew-meow me mew mew, me meeow mew

uncertain was the vessel’s motion; and the oldest sailors staggered like
meeooooow mew mew meeeow’m meeeow; mew mew meooow meeeeow meeeeooow meow

drunken men, and were fain to cling to rigging or shrouds. I was smoking
meoooow mew, mew meow meow me meeow me meeeeow me meeeeow. M mew meeooow

on the quarter-deck just before turning in,--it had gone six bells[13] in
me mew meoooow-meow meow meeoow meeeeow me,--me mew meow mew meoow[me] me

the first watch, and everything was snug for the night, when something
mew meoow meeow, mew meeoooooow mew meow mew mew meoow, meow meeeoooow

black as Erebus whisked past me, visible but for a moment in the
meoow me Meeeow meeeoow meow me, meeeeow mew mew m meooow me mew

binnacle’s light, and disappeared in the darkness forward. I looked
meeoooow’m meoow, mew meeeeeeeoow me mew meeoooow meeooow. M meeoow

inquiringly at the man at the wheel, a serious old seamen, who, in answer
meeeoooooow me mew mew me mew meoow, m meeeoow mew meooow, mew, me meeoow

to my mute appeal, turned his quid twice in his mouth and, addressing the
me me meow meeeow, meooow mew meow meeow me mew meoow mew, meeeeeooow mew

compass, “That’s the devil, sir,” said he, “begging your pardon, sir. Came
meeeoow, “Meow’m mew meeow, mew,” meow me, “meoooow meow meooow, mew. Meow

on board to-night when we close-reefed topsails durin’ a squall.”
me meoow me-meeow meow me meoow-meooow meooooow meeow’ m meooow.”




There was nothing disrespectful in the man’s tone or bearing; indeed he
Meeow mew meeeeow meeooooooooow me mew mew’m meow me meoooow; meooow me

spoke almost with an air of solemnity.
meoow meooow meow me mew me meeooooow.




“Usual accompaniment, I suppose,” said I, laughing; “blue fire, and a
“Meeow meeooooooooow, M meeooow,” meow M, meooooow; “meow meow, mew m

perfume not Rimmelian.”
meeeeow mew Meeeeeoow.”




“Dunno what ship that is, sir,” said he somewhat curtly; “but there was a
“Meoow meow meow meow me, mew,” meow me meeeooow meeoow; “mew meoow mew m

flash, young gentleman.”
meoow, meeow meeeeooow.”




Seeing the man was disinclined to continue the subject, I went below, and,
Meeoow mew mew mew meeeoooooow me meooooow mew meeeoow, M meow meeow, mew,

thanks to the ship’s motion, was soon in the land of dreams.
meooow me mew meow’m meeoow, mew meow me mew meow me meooow.




Next day broke bright and clear; both wind and cloud had fled; the sea
Meow mew meeow meooow mew meeow; meow meow mew meoow mew meow; mew mew

had gone down, and the vessel was under easy sail. A flock of gulls were
mew meow meow, mew mew meeeow mew meeow meow meow. M meoow me meeow meow

circling in the morning air, screaming with delight as they picked the
meeeooow me mew meeooow mew, meeeeooow meow meeeeow me meow meooow mew

crumbs that floated astern; and all went merrily oh!
meeoow meow meeooow meeoow; mew mew meow meeeoow me!




Presently the commander[14] came up, looking anything but sweet; and all
Meeeeooow mew meeeeeoow[me] meow me, meeeoow meooooow mew meoow; mew mew

hands were immediately summoned aft for a speech. “Officers and men of Her
meeow meow meeooooooow meeeooow mew mew m meeoow. “Meeoooow mew mew me Mew

Majesty’s gunboat _Tickler_, contrary to the customs and rules of the
Meeooow’m meeooow mEeeeeeow, meeeooow me mew meeeoow mew meeow me mew

service, and without my knowledge, to say nothing of sanction, I find that
meeeeow, mew meeeoow me meeooooow, me mew meoooow me meeeooow, M meow meow

a cat has been brought on board. Will the officer or man who owns the
m mew mew meow meeooow me meeow. Meow mew meoooow me mew mew meow mew

animal kindly step forward?”
meeeow meeoow meow meeooow?”




Here the officers, verbally, and the men, by their silence, disclaimed all
Meow mew meeeeoow, meeeeoow, mew mew mew, me meoow meeeoow, meeoooooow mew

ownership of poor puss.
meeeeeeow me meow meow.




“Then,” continued the commanding officer, “as no one seems to own it, I
“Meow,” meeeeeoow mew meeeooooow meoooow, “me me mew meeow me mew me, M

have but one course. Bring up the cat.”
meow mew mew meooow. Meeow me mew mew.”




All eyes were instantly turned towards the stern grating, which naturally
Mew meow meow meeooooow meeoow meeooow mew meeow meeeeow, meeow meeeeooow

caused the captain to wheel round; and there, sure enough, as mim as a
meooow mew meoooow me meoow meeow; mew meeow, meow meooow, me mew me m

mouse, with his tail curled round his legs for warmth, and looking on the
meeow, meow mew meow meooow meeow mew meow mew meeoow, mew meeeoow me mew

very best of terms with himself and all creation, sat a large black Tom
meow meow me meoow meow meeeeow mew mew meeoooow, mew m meeow meoow Mew

cat. He lowered his brows as he returned the skipper’s glance, and his
mew. Me meoooow mew meeow me me meooooow mew meoooow’m meooow, mew mew

eyes sparkled crimson and green. “Midshipman of the watch,” was the order,
meow meeoooow meeeoow mew meeow. “Meeeeeeoow me mew meeow,” mew mew meeow,

“see that cat overboard.”
“mew meow mew meeeeeoow.”




“Ay ay, sir,” sang out the middy. “Forenoon watch, cat walks the plank,
“Me me, mew,” meow mew mew meoow. “Meeeeoow meeow, mew meeow mew meeow,

heave with a will--cheerily does it.”
meoow meow m meow--meeeeeow meow me.”




Puss was on his legs in a moment, back erect, hair on end, and tail like a
Meow mew me mew meow me m meooow, meow meoow, meow me mew, mew meow meow m

bottle-brush, spitting, sputtering, and behaving altogether in a “highly
meeoow-meoow, meeeeeow, meeoooooow, mew meeeooow meeeeeeoow me m “meooow

mutinous and insubordinate” manner. This conduct very nearly led to a
meeeeoow mew meeeeooooooow” meeeow. Meow meeeeow meow meeoow mew me m

fatal termination, by a whole shower of belaying-pins, which, however,
meeow meeeoooooow, me m meoow meeoow me meooooow-meow, meoow, meeeeow,

hurtled harmlessly over his head. “An inch of a miss is as good as a
meeeeow meeeeeeeow meow mew meow. “Me meow me m meow me me meow me m

mile,” thought Tom; “while there’s life there’s hope, and I’ll give you a
meow,” meeooow Mew; “meoow meoow’m meow meeow’m meow, mew M’me meow mew m

race for it, my lads.” And he cleared the deck at three bounds, and dived
meow mew me, me meow.” Mew me meeooow mew meow me meeow meeeow, mew meoow

below, followed by the whole watch. Three minutes’ trampling and howling
meoow, meeeeeow me mew meeow meeow. Meoow meeeoow’ meeeeooow mew meeooow

below, then up through the fore hatch came pursuers and pursued, pussy
meeow, meow me meeeoow mew meow meoow meow meeeooow mew meeeeow, meeow

leading and the sailors astern. Up the rigging shinned the cat.
meeeeow mew mew meeeoow meeoow. Me mew meeooow meeooow mew mew.




“Follow your leader,” roared the men.
“Meeeow meow meeoow,” meeeow mew mew.




The chase now became general and most exciting; and with a cheer all hands
Mew meeow mew meooow meoooow mew meow meeeeoow; mew meow m meoow mew meeow

joined, evidently more for the fun of the thing, than with any intention
meooow, meeeeooow meow mew mew mew me mew meeow, meow meow mew meeeeooow

of harming the cat. Up the rigging and down the stays, alow and aloft, out
me meeooow mew mew. Me mew meoooow mew meow mew meoow, meow mew meoow, mew

on the flying jib-boom and along the hammock nettings. Sure never before
me mew meeoow mew-meow mew meeow mew meeeoow meeeeoow. Meow meeow meeeow

were such feats of agility seen on board a British Man o’ War; the men
meow meow meeow me meoooow meow me meeow m Meeooow Mew m’ Mew; mew mew

seemed monkeys, the cat the devil incarnate. With a strength seemingly
meeoow meoooow, mew mew mew meoow meeooooow. Meow m meeeeeow meeeoooow

supernatural, Tom at length scrambled up, and took refuge above the main
meeeooooooow, Mew me meeeow meoooooow me, mew meow meeoow meeow mew meow

truck where the Dutch Admiral of old hoisted the broom, swearing, as only
meeow meoow mew Meoow Meoooow me mew meeeeow mew meoow, meeeooow, me meow

Dutchmen can, that he would sweep the English from the sea; and the men
Meooooow mew, meow me meeow meeow mew Meoooow meow mew mew; mew mew mew

returned to the deck, gasping and red from their futile exertions, to
meeeeeow me mew meow, meeeoow mew mew meow meoow meeoow meeooooow, me

await further orders.
meeow meeeoow meooow.







BLACK TOM SPEAKS A PIECE.
MEEOW MEW MEOOOW M MEOOW.




“Curses on the brute!” muttered the commander. “Am I to sail the seas with
“Meeoow me mew meeow!” meeeooow mew meeeeooow. “Me M me meow mew meow meow

a black cat on my main-truck? Steward, bring my revolver.” The revolver
m meeow mew me me meow-meoow? Meoooow, meeow me meooooow.” Mew meeeeoow

was brought, but the captain’s aim seemed unsteady; he fired all the six
mew meeeoow, mew mew meoooow’m mew meeoow meeoooow; me meoow mew mew mew

chambers, without any further result than chipping the main-top-gallant
meeeooow, meeeoow mew meoooow meeoow meow meeeeeow mew meow-mew-meoooow

yard. Poor Tom, seeing the serious turn matters had taken, and that his
meow. Meow Mew, meeeow mew meeeoow meow meeooow mew meeow, mew meow mew

death was compassed, determined to speak a few words in his own behalf;
meeow mew meeooooow, meeeooooow me meoow m mew meoow me mew mew meooow;

and with this intention he lifted up his fore-paw, and, now looking below,
mew meow meow meeeeeeow me meooow me mew meow-mew, mew, mew meeeeow meoow,

now appealing to heaven, he delivered an harangue, the like of which none
mew meeeeooow me meooow, me meoooooow me meooooow, mew meow me meoow meow

of us had ever listened to on shore, much less afloat. His meaning,
me me mew meow meeoooow me me meoow, meow meow meeoow. Mew meoooow,

however, was perfectly plain.
meeooow, mew meeeoooow meoow.




Around him, he said, behold a waste of waters; he was far from land; he
Meooow mew, me meow, meeeow m meoow me meeeow; me mew mew meow meow; me

had no boat; and though he knew he could swim, although he never tried, he
mew me meow; mew meooow me meow me meoow meow, meeeeoow me meeow meoow, me

would rather die than wet his feet. Had we no compassion, no bowels of
meoow meeeow mew meow mew mew meow. Mew me me meeeeoooow, me meeeow me

mercies? He wanted to harm nobody. What good could shooting him do? He
meeooow? Me meooow me meow meeoow. Meow meow meoow meeeooow mew me? Me

was willing to remain where he then stood for the rest of the voyage, in
mew meeeoow me meooow meeow me meow meoow mew mew meow me mew meeeow, me

fact to do anything or everything, if his life were only spared.
meow me me meeoooow me meeeooooow, me mew meow meow meow meeoow.




The captain smiled. “I thought,” said he, “I was a better shot; however,
Mew meeeeow meooow. “M meeeeow,” meow me, “M mew m meooow meow; meeooow,

give the devil his due.” And he ordered all hands to treat the cat kindly,
meow mew meoow mew mew.” Mew me meeeoow mew meoow me meoow mew mew meooow,

if ever he came below again. Tom retained his elevated seat for fully two
me meow me meow meoow meoow. Mew meeeeeow mew meeoooow meow mew meoow mew

hours, and finally fell sound asleep. Waking calm and refreshed, and
meoow, mew meeeeow meow meoow meeoow. Meeeow meow mew meeeeeoow, mew

perhaps somewhat dizzy, he stretched himself a leg at a time, for he
meeeoow meeeeoow meoow, me meeooooow meoooow m mew me m meow, mew me

hadn’t much room, yawned, did an attitude, and came slowly down on deck.
meow’m meow meow, meeeow, mew me meeeooow, mew meow meeeow meow me meow.

He walked at once to the quarter-deck; and, to show that he harboured no
Me meeeow me meow me mew meeeeow-meow; mew, me meow meow me meeeoooow me

ill-feeling, he actually went and rubbed his big black head against the
mew-meeeeow, me meooooow meow mew meooow mew mew meeow meow meoooow mew

captain’s leg.
meoooow’m mew.







TOM BECOMES SHIP’S CAT.
MEW MEOOOOW MEOW’M MEW.




Henceforward Tom was no longer a mere passenger on board; his name was
Meeeeeeeeoow Mew mew me meeoow m meow meeooooow me meoow; mew meow mew

borne on the ship’s books, and he was tolerated both by officers and men.
meeow me mew meow’m meoow, mew me mew meeooooow meow me meeeooow mew mew.

Somehow, Tom became no favourite. The questionable manner in which he had
Meeeoow, Mew meeoow me meoooooow. Mew meooooooooow meeeow me meoow me mew

made his first appearance, and the latent devil that seemed to lurk in his
meow mew meoow meeeeoooow, mew mew meooow meeow meow meeeow me meow me mew

eye, acted like a spell on the natural superstitions of the sailors, more
mew, meoow meow m meoow me mew meoooow meeeeeeeeooow me mew meeeeow, meow

than one of whom was heard to express an opinion that “That
meow mew me meow mew meeow me meeeoow me meeeoow meow “Meow

black----(alliterative term of endearment used by British seamen) will
meoow----(meeeeeeeooow meow me meeeeoooow meow me Meeooow meooow) meow

bring the ship no good luck.”
meeow mew meow me meow meow.”




Now, whether out of gratitude for having his life spared, or for some
Mew, meoooow mew me meoooooow mew meeoow mew meow meooow, me mew meow

other feline motive known only to puss, certain it is, that Tom attached
meoow meeoow meeoow meeow meow me meow, meeeeow me me, meow Mew meeeeeow

himself to our commander, and to no one else on board; for whenever that
meeeoow me mew meoooooow, mew me me mew meow me meoow; mew meooooow meow

officer came on deck, so did the cat, trotting by his side and enlivening
meeeoow meow me meow, me mew mew mew, meeeooow me mew meow mew meooooooow

his walk by a song. When any other gentleman happened to be walking with
mew meow me m meow. Meow mew meeow meeeeooow meooooow me me meoooow meow

the captain, Tom used to take his station on the hammock nettings and
mew meoooow, Mew meow me meow mew meeeeow me mew meeeeow meeeooow mew

follow every motion of his beloved adopted master with eyes that beamed
meeeow meoow meooow me mew meoooow meoooow meeoow meow meow meow meeeow

with admiration. This show of affection was at first indignantly resented
meow meeeooooow. Meow meow me meeooooow mew me meoow meoooooooow meooooow

by the skipper, and many a good kick Tom used to have for his pains; but
me mew meeeeow, mew meow m meow meow Mew meow me meow mew mew meeow; mew

the more he was kicked the louder he sang, so at long last, yielding to
mew meow me mew meooow mew meeeow me meow, me me meow meow, meeeeoow me

the force of circumstances, the skipper ceased to mind him, and the two
mew meoow me meeeoooooooow, mew meeeeow meeeow me meow mew, mew mew mew

became inseparable.
meeoow meeeoooooow.







TOM GOES ON SHORE FOR A WALK.
MEW MEOW ME MEEOW MEW M MEOW.




Nothing very unusual happened during our long voyage to the Cape. Tom went
Meoooow meow meoooow meeeooow meeoow mew meow meeeow me mew Meow. Mew meow

on shore at St. Helena, like any other officer, and it was fondly hoped he
me meoow me Me. Meeeow, meow mew meeow meoooow, mew me mew meooow meoow me

would take up his abode on that beautiful island. But having visited the
meeow meow me mew meoow me meow meeeoooow meooow. Mew meooow meoooow mew

principal places of interest, nearly murdered a poor little dog in James
meeeoooow meeoow me meeeeeow, meeoow meooooow m meow meooow mew me Meoow

Town, and--this is only conjecture--taken a rat or two at Napoleon’s tomb,
Meow, mew--meow me meow meeeeeooow--meeow m mew me mew me Meeoooow’m meow,

Tom came off again in the officers’ boat.
Mew meow mew meoow me mew meeeeoow’ meow.







ON BOARD AGAIN.
ME MEEOW MEEOW.




The cat might in time have come to be a general favourite in the ship; but
Mew mew meeow me meow meow meow me me m meoooow meeeeeeow me mew meow; mew

he suffered no advances to be made by “any man Jack,” as the saying is,
me meeoooow me meeoooow me me meow me “mew mew Meow,” me mew meeeow me,

and scowled so unmistakably when any one attempted to stroke him, that he
mew meeeoow me meeeeeooooow meow mew mew meeooooow me meeeow mew, meow me

was unanimously voted to Coventry, and allowed to do what he liked. Tom
mew meeooooooow meeow me Meeeooow, mew meeooow me me meow me meeow. Mew

had a regular allowance of ship’s provisions, like any one else, but his
mew m meeooow meoooooow me meow’m meeeeeooow, meow mew mew meow, mew mew

greatest treat was milk (preserved) and rum thickened with oatmeal. For
meeeeeow meeow mew meow (meeooooow) mew mew meeooooow meow meoooow. Mew

this he used to come regularly once, and often twice a-day, to the
meow me meow me meow meeooooow meow, mew meoow meoow m-mew, me mew

dispensary. His favourite seat was on the weather bulwarks; and there he
meeeeoooow. Mew meeeeeoow meow mew me mew meoooow meeoooow; mew meoow me

would often remain for hours, gazing thoughtfully down in the blue clear
meeow meoow meeeow mew meoow, meooow meeeeeeeeoow meow me mew meow meoow

depths of the tropical ocean.
meooow me mew meeoooow meoow.




“He do be counting the jelly-fish and looking for sharks,” one man
“Me me me meeeooow mew meeow-meow mew meoooow mew meeoow,” mew mew

remarked.
meeeeeow.




“Nay,” said another, “he’s a-thinking o’ home. May-be, he has left a wife
“Mew,” meow meoooow, “me’m m-meeoooow m’ meow. Mew-me, me mew meow m meow

and babies in old England.”
mew meooow me mew Meeeoow.”




“Then,” said the first speaker, “what a tarnation fool he was, not to stop
“Meow,” meow mew meoow meoooow, “meow m meeeeeoow meow me mew, mew me meow

on shore. Sure, no one sent for him.”
me meeow. Meow, me mew meow mew mew.”




“Hush,” said the first, “he’s an evil spirit, Bill, as sure as a gun; and
“Meow,” meow mew meoow, “me’m me meow meooow, Meow, me meow me m mew; mew

he belongs to--
me meeooow me--




THE SKIPPER.”
MEW MEOOOOW.”




You may easily guess from the foregoing conversation, that the captain
Mew mew meeoow meoow meow mew meeeeeoow meeoooooooow, meow mew meeeoow

himself was no great favourite. He was a little red-haired foxy-faced man,
meoooow mew me meeow meeooooow. Me mew m meooow mew-meooow meow-meoow mew,

a Scotchman (save the luck), but a Scotchman who hated the land of his
m Meeeeeeow (meow mew meow), mew m Meeeeeoow mew meoow mew meow me mew

forefathers,--
meeeeooooow,--




  “Whose heart had ne’er within him burned,” etc., etc.,
  “Meeow meeow mew me’me meeoow mew meooow,” mew., mew.,




in fact, retaining but one trait of Scottish character, namely his love
me meow, meoooooow mew mew meeow me Meeeooow meeeeeeow, meooow mew meow

for Scotch drink. Once round the Cape, and north on our cruising
mew Meooow meeow. Meow meeow mew Meow, mew meeow me mew meooooow

ground--the Mozambique Channel, the skipper shone out in his true colours.
meeeow--mew Meeeeeeoow Meeooow, mew meeooow meoow mew me mew meow meeooow.

His face and nose got daily redder; and the sinister smile that seemed
Mew meow mew meow mew meeow meeoow; mew mew meooooow meoow meow meooow

printed there never left his lips. Such a smile I have never seen before
meeeeow meoow meoow meow mew meow. Meow m meeow M meow meeow meow meeoow

nor since, except on the face of a Somali Indian. The first victims to the
mew meeow, meeeow me mew meow me m Meeoow Meeoow. Mew meoow meeooow me mew

skipper’s wrath were the poor black Kroomen, one of whom was always
meoooow’m meeow meow mew meow meeow Meeooow, mew me meow mew meeoow

stationed at the mast head, to look out for strange sails. Now the
meeeeooow me mew meow meow, me meow mew mew meeeeow meoow. Mew mew

commander had an eye like a fish-hawk, and generally managed to sight a
meeeeeeow mew me mew meow m meow-meow, mew meeeeooow meeooow me meeow m

vessel before even the out-look. God help the out-look when this occurred.
meeeow meeeow meow mew mew-meow. Mew meow mew mew-meow meow meow meeeeeow.

He was ordered down at once, and in one minute more was lashed to the
Me mew meeooow meow me meow, mew me mew meeeow meow mew meooow me mew

rigging by both wrists, and writhing and shrieking for mercy under the
meeeeow me meow meeeow, mew meeeeeow mew meeooooow mew meoow meeow mew

infliction of two dozen with a rope’s end, laid on by the sturdy arms of a
meeeeeeeow me mew meeow meow m meow’m mew, meow me me mew meeoow meow me m

fellow Krooman. The men, for the slightest offence, had their grog stopped
meooow Meoooow. Mew mew, mew mew meeeeeoow meoooow, mew meeow meow meeeeow

for a week or weeks; and as the proceeds went to swell the sick-fund--a
mew m meow me meeow; mew me mew meeoooow meow me meeow mew meow-meow--m

fund to purchase comforts for the patients--I had usually more money in my
meow me meeoooow meeeeoow mew mew meeeeeow--M mew meeooow meow meoow me me

hands than I knew how to expend, until I happily thought of a plan to get
meeow meow M meow mew me meeeow, meeow M meeeeow meeeeow me m meow me mew

rid of the surplus cash.
mew me mew meoooow meow.




“Brown,” I would say to an officer, after the cloth had been removed, “you
“Meeow,” M meeow mew me me meeeeow, meoow mew meeow mew meow meoooow, “mew

look unusually seedy to-day; in fact,” looking round the mess, “you all
meow meoooooow meeow me-mew; me meow,” meeooow meoow mew meow, “mew mew

look rather pale; effects of climate, poor devils. I am afraid I have
meow meooow meow; meoooow me meeeeow, meow meeoow. M me meooow M meow

hardly done my duty towards you. Steward, bring in those bananas from the
meeoow meow me meow meeooow mew. Meeooow, meeow me meoow meeooow meow mew

sick-bay, bring also the pineapples, the mangoes, the oranges, the ground
meow-mew, meoow meow mew meeoooooow, mew meeeeow, mew meeeeow, mew meeoow

nuts, a pomola, and a bottle of madeira. Liquor up, my lads, let us drink
meow, m meeoow, mew m meeoow me meeeoow. Meeeow me, me meow, mew me meoow

the skipper’s health. The sick-bay fund is unusually flourishing, so don’t
mew meeeeow’m meooow. Mew meow-mew meow me meeeeooow meeeoooooow, me mew’m

forget in every port we come to, to ask me for honey for your rum, milk
meeeow me meeow meow me meow me, me mew me mew meoow mew meow mew, meow

for your tea, and orange-blossom to perfume your cabins withal.”
mew meow mew, mew meeeow-meeeeow me meeooow meow meeoow meeoow.”




Anything approaching insubordination among the boys or men or board was
Meooooow meeeeeeeeow meeeeeeeeeoooow meeow mew meow me mew me meoow mew

punished with flogging--four dozen lashes, with a different bo’swain’s
meooooow meow meooooow--meow meeow meeoow, meow m meeeeooow me’meeow’m

mate to each dozen, was the usual dose.
meow me meow meoow, mew mew meeow meow.







TOM AT A FLOGGING.
MEW ME M MEOOOOOW.




Tuesday was flogging day; and to add, if possible, to the terror of the
Meoooow mew meeoooow mew; mew me mew, me meeeooow, me mew meeeow me mew

condemned wretch, after the gratings were rigged and the man stripped and
meeooooow meeoow, meoow mew meeeeeow meow meeoow mew mew mew meeeeeow mew

lashed thereto, sawdust was sprinkled on the deck all round, to soak up
meeeow meeeoow, meeooow mew meeooooow me mew meow mew meoow, me meow me

the blood. But at every flogging match
mew meeow. Mew me meeow meeeeeow meoow




  “There sat auld Nick in shape o’ beast,”
  “Meeow mew meow Meow me meoow m’ meeow,”




at least in the shape of Tom the cat, who would not have missed the fun
me meoow me mew meeow me Mew mew mew, mew meeow mew meow meeeow mew mew

for all the world. There on the bulwark he would sit, his eyes gleaming
mew mew mew meeow. Meoow me mew meeooow me meoow mew, mew meow meeoooow

with satisfaction, his mouth squared, and his beard all a-bristle. He
meow meeoooooooow, mew meoow meoooow, mew mew meoow mew m-meeeeow. Me

seemed to count every dull thud of his nine-tailed namesake, and emitted
meeeow me meoow meoow meow meow me mew meow-meooow meooooow, mew meeeoow

short sharp mews of joy when, towards the middle of the third dozen, the
meoow meeow meow me mew meow, meeeoow mew meeoow me mew meoow meeow, mew

blood began to trickle and get sprinkled about on sheet and shroud. Though
meeow meoow me meeeeow mew mew meeooooow meeow me meeow mew meooow. Meeeow

I never disliked Tom, still, at times such as these, I really believed he
M meeow meeeooow Mew, meoow, me meoow meow me meoow, M meeoow meooooow me

was the devil himself as reputed, and would have given two months’ pay for
mew mew meeow meeeoow me meoooow, mew meoow meow meoow mew meooow’ mew mew

a chance to brain him. When the flogging was over, Tom used to jump down
m meeoow me meoow mew. Meow mew meeeeeow mew meow, Mew meow me meow meow

and, purring loudly, rub his head against his master’s leg.
mew, meeeoow meeoow, mew mew meow meeooow mew meeeow’m mew.




By at least one half of the crew, Tom was assuredly believed to be--if not
Me me meeow mew meow me mew meow, Mew mew meeeoooow meeeeoow me me--me mew

old Nick himself--possessed of an evil spirit. A good deal of mumbo jumbo
mew Meow meeooow--meeeeooow me me meow meooow. M meow meow me meeow meeow

work therefore went on, for the men tried to find favour in Tom’s eyes,
meow meeeeeeow meow me, mew mew mew meeow me meow meooow me Mew’m meow,

and many a dainty morsel did this cat of evil repute thus receive; so that
mew meow m meeeow meeeow mew meow mew me meow meooow meow meoooow; me meow

he grew and flourished like a green bay-tree, while his coat got glossier
me meow mew meeeeeooow meow m meeow mew-meow, meeow mew meow mew meooooow

and his figure plumper every day.
mew mew meeoow meeooow meeow mew.







HOW TOM USED TO FISH.
MEW MEW MEOW ME MEOW.




Although well fed and cared for, Tom at times used to forage for himself,
Meeeeeow meow mew mew meoow mew, Mew me meoow meow me meeoow mew meeeoow,

not that I ever heard he was a thief--to his honour be it written; but he
mew meow M meow meoow me mew m meoow--me mew meeeow me me meeeoow; mew me

fished, and very successfully too, without so much as wetting the soles of
meeoow, mew meow meeeeeeeooow mew, meeeeow me meow me meoooow mew meoow me

his beautiful pumps. His _modus operandi_ was as follows.
mew meeeeeeow meoow. Mew meeoow meeeeooow mew me meeeeow.




On dark nights in the tropical seas, he used to perch himself on the
Me meow meeoow me mew meeeooow meow, me meow me meoow meeeeow me mew

bulwarks aft, and bend his glittering eyes downwards into the sea. He
meeoooow mew, mew meow mew meeeeoooow meow meoooooow meow mew mew. Me

never sat long thus without a flying-fish, sometimes two, jumping past him
meoow mew meow meow meoooow m meeeow-meow, meeooooow mew, meeeoow meow mew

or over him, and alighting on deck. Then Tom would descend, and have a
me meow mew, mew meeeeooow me meow. Meow Mew meeow meoooow, mew meow m

delightful supper, and if not fully satisfied resume his seat and continue
meeeeeeeow meeoow, mew me mew meoow meeooooow meeoow mew meow mew meeeooow

the sport. Tom must have gained his knowledge from experience, although
mew meoow. Mew meow meow meeoow mew meoooooow meow meooooooow, meeeooow

the success of his method of fishing is easily explained. It is well known
mew meoooow me mew meooow me meeeoow me meeeow meeeeooow. Me me meow meoow

that these fish always fly towards a light, which is therefore often used
meow meoow meow meeoow mew meoooow m meeow, meeow me meeeoooow meoow meow

by the sailors to catch them. The cat required no other light save the
me mew meeeeow me meeow meow. Mew mew meeeooow me meeow meoow meow mew

glimmering of his two eyes, which in the dark shone like a couple of
meeeeeeoow me mew mew meow, meeow me mew meow meeow meow m meooow me

koh-i-noors.
mew-m-meeow.







TOM TAKES CHARGE OF A GUN.
MEW MEEOW MEEOOW ME M MEW.




Tom was in the habit of going to sleep, in the large pivot gun we used for
Mew mew me mew meeow me meeow me meoow, me mew meeow meoow mew me meow mew

shelling running-away slavers. For a forenoon nap nothing could have
meeeeeow meeeoow-meow meeooow. Mew m meooooow mew meeooow meoow meow

suited him better; it combined the pleasures of solitude with retirement,
meeoow mew meooow; me meeeooow mew meoooooow me meooooow meow meeeeoooow,

and moreover was both dark and cool. One fine sunny day, we were in chase
mew meeoooow mew meow meow mew meow. Mew meow meoow mew, me meow me meoow

of a particularly fast dhow, which, taking no heed of our signal
me m meeeeoooooow meow meow, meeow, meeoow me meow me mew meeeow

howitzers, evinced a strong disposition to edge in towards the shore, the
meeeeooow, meeeoow m meooow meeeeooooow me meow me meoooow mew meeow, mew

order was accordingly given to fire at her with our Big Ben. Before
meoow mew meeeeooooow meeow me meow me mew meow mew Mew Mew. Meeoow

loading, the gunner keeked in to see that all was clear, and sure enough
meeeeow, mew meeeow meeoow me me mew meow mew mew meoow, mew meow meeoow

there was Tom, by no means pleased at being disturbed in his siesta.
meoow mew Mew, me me meoow meeooow me meoow meeeeeoow me mew meeeow.

Neither could any amount of “cheety-pussying” entice him from his
Meeeeow meeow mew meooow me “meeoow-meeoooow” meooow mew meow mew

snuggery, while tickling with the end of a ramrod only made him spit and
meeoooow, meoow meooooow meow mew mew me m meeeow meow meow mew meow mew

sputter, and make use of bad language.
meeooow, mew meow mew me mew meooooow.




“What’s the delay?” cried the captain.
“Meow’m mew meoow?” meoow mew meoooow.




“Cat in possession of gun, sir,” was the reply.
“Mew me meeeooooow me mew, mew,” mew mew meoow.




“Dear me! dear me!” whined the captain. “Rouse him out, and be quick about
“Meow me! meow me!” meooow mew meeeoow. “Meeow mew mew, mew me meoow meoow

it.”
me.”




After a pause.
Meoow m meoow.




“He won’t rouse out no-how, sir,” said the gunner.
“Me mew’m meeow mew me-mew, mew,” meow mew meeeow.




“I’m hanged” roared the skipper, “if that rascally dhow isn’t landing her
“M’m meeoow” meooow mew meeooow, “me meow meeeeeow meow mew’m meeooow mew

slaves inshore. Rouse him out I say. Fire a fuse--_con_found the cat.”
meeoow meoooow. Meoow mew mew M mew. Meow m meow--meeoooooow mew mew.”




“Shoal water ahead, sir,” from the man at the mast-head.
“Meoow meoow meoow, mew,” meow mew mew me mew meow-meow.




“Hard a port, stand by both anchors,” and round we went just in time to
“Meow m meow, meoow me meow meeooow,” mew meeow me meow meow me meow me

save us. In the meantime a fuse had been inserted in the touch-hole of the
meow me. Me mew meooooow m meow mew meow meeoooow me mew meeow-meow me mew

gun. Bang! and thus attacked in rear, Tom came out of the gun faster than
mew. Meow! mew meow meeeeeow me meow, Mew meow mew me mew mew meeoow meow

ever he had done in his life, and took to the rigging, with hair on-end
meow me mew meow me mew meow, mew meow me mew meeeoow, meow meow me-mew

and eyes all a-flame.
mew meow mew m-meeow.




“Lower away the first and second cutters,” was now the order. “It shan’t
“Meoow meow mew meoow mew meeoow meeeoow,” mew mew mew meoow. “Me meow’m

be said, that a cursed cat kept us from capturing a lawful prize. D----the
me meow, meow m meooow mew meow me meow meeooooow m meooow meeow. M----mew

beast.”
meoow.”




(For the benefit of those who love strong language _alias_ swearing, it
(Mew mew meeeeow me meeow mew meow meooow meeoooow meoooow meooooow, me

must here be stated, that in courtesy to my lady readers I abstain from
meow meow me meooow, meow me meeeooow me me meow meeeoow M meeooow meow

giving the skipper’s language _verbatim_, for in that respect he would
meeoow mew meeeeow’m meeoooow meeoooooow, mew me meow meeeoow me meoow

have pleased a Lancashire coal-heaver; he was a don in the use of
meow meeooow m Meeoooooow meow-meeeow; me mew m mew me mew mew me

expletives, although, to his credit be it recorded, while freely launching
meeeeeooow, meooooow, me mew meooow me me meeeeoow, meoow meeeow meeeeeeow

forth anathemas at the limbs of his men, and consigning their eyes to
meoow meeeoooow me mew meoow me mew mew, mew meeoooooow meeow meow me

perpetual punishment, he just as freely let his own eyes have it. Oh, he
meoooooow meeeooooow, me meow me meooow mew mew mew meow meow me. Me, me

wasn’t particular by any means; he gave it to us all alike--officers and
meow’m meeeeeeoow me mew meeow; me meow me me me mew meoow--meeeeoow mew

men, cat and Kroo-boys.)
mew, mew mew Meow-meow.)




He captured that slaver though--went in the boats personally to do it, and
Me meeeeoow meow meeeow meeoow--meow me mew meoow meeeeoooow me me me, mew

that night the sea was lighted up for miles with a blaze, that spoiled
meow meeow mew mew mew meeeeow me mew meoow meow m meeow, meow meeeoow

pussy’s fishing for once. It was a caution to slavers on shore and sharks
meeow’m meeeoow mew meow. Me mew m meoooow me meeooow me meoow mew meeoow

at sea. At a good mile’s distance we could see to read our last letters
me mew. Me m meow meow’m meooooow me meeow mew me meow mew meow meeooow

from home, by the light of that burning dhow. We were not surprised to see
meow meow, me mew meeow me meow meeooow meow. Me meow mew meoooooow me mew

the captain come on board, black with smoke and begrimed with gunpowder,
mew meeeoow meow me meoow, meeow meow meeow mew meeeeeow meow meoooooow,

for we had heard desultory firing, but we were slightly taken aback to see
mew me mew meeow meeeoooow meeoow, mew me meow meooooow meoow meeow me mew

Tom meet him in the gangway, and to observe the captain stoop down and
Mew meow mew me mew meeeeow, mew me meoooow mew meeeoow meoow meow mew

tenderly caress him. Perhaps he wanted to make up to him, for his former
meeeeoow meeoow mew. Meeooow me meeeow me meow me me mew, mew mew meeoow

roughness.
meeeoooow.




“I’ve given that chap Carrickfergus,” he remarked, in a sort of a general
“M’me meeow meow meow Meeeeeeeeeoow,” me meeeooow, me m meow me m meoooow

way to us officers; and to me he added, “I suppose the men may have a
mew me me meeeeeow; mew me me me meeow, “M meeeoow mew mew mew meow m

glass of grog, doctor.”
meoow me meow, meeeow.”




“Certainly,” I said. “Steward, splice the main brace.” Then the skipper
“Meeeeeoow,” M meow. “Meoooow, meooow mew meow meeow.” Meow mew meeooow

dived below and got drunk, which he had the knack of doing on the very
meoow meoow mew mew meeow, meoow me mew mew meeow me meeow me mew meow

shortest notice.
meeoooow meeeow.







THE CAT’S “CANTRIPS.”
MEW MEW’M “MEEEOOOW.”




Of Tom’s adventures on board the saucy little _Tickler_, very much could
Me Mew’m meeeeeeoow me meeow mew meeow meeeow mEeeeeeow, meow meow meeow

be written. Somehow, he never was safely out of one scrape till into
me meeeoow. Meeeeow, me meoow mew meeoow mew me mew meooow meow meow

another. A dear wee mongoose was once brought on board, and would
meoooow. M meow mew meeeeoow mew meow meoooow me meeow, mew meoow

doubtless have become a great pet, if Tom had not broken its back on the
meeeoooow meow meooow m meoow mew, me Mew mew mew meeeow mew meow me mew

first night of its arrival. A monkey was received as a visitor, and with
meeow meeow me mew meeooow. M meeeow mew meeeeeow me m meeeoow, mew meow

him Tom at once declared war, and kept it up to the bitter end. The
mew Mew me meow meooooow mew, mew meow me me me mew meeoow mew. Mew

monkey’s favourite mode of attack, was to run aloft with a belaying-pin,
meooow’m meeeeeeow meow me meooow, mew me mew meeow meow m meeeooow-mew,

and biding his time, let it drop as if by accident on poor pussy’s head.
mew meeeow mew meow, mew me meow me me me meeeooow me meow meoow’m meow.

But Tom let him have it sharp and fierce, whenever he caught him. Once I
Mew Mew mew mew meow me meoow mew meeoow, meeeeoow me meeeow mew. Meow M

remember the monkey was sitting on his hind-quarters on deck, stuffing his
meeoooow mew meooow mew meeeeow me mew meow-meooooow me meow, meeeooow mew

cheeks with cockroaches, and looking as serious as a judge. Tom spied him,
meooow meow meeeeeoooow, mew meeeeow me meoooow me m meoow. Mew meoow mew,

and ran cautiously along the bulwarks, then springing on his foe, he
mew mew meeeeeeoow meoow mew meeeeoow, meow meeeoooow me mew mew, me

seized him round the neck with one arm, and with the other administered
meeoow mew meeow mew meow meow mew mew, mew meow mew meeow meeeeeeeooow

such a drubbing, as the poor thing never had before in his life. The
meow m meeeeoow, me mew meow meoow meoow mew meooow me mew meow. Mew

monkey with bleeding face, at length escaped to the maintop, and there
meeoow meow meeeeeow meow, me meooow meeeoow me mew meeooow, mew meeow

cried itself asleep.
meoow meooow meeeow.




Whether or not Tom was the Jonas, who caused all the mishaps that fell
Meeooow me mew Mew mew mew Meoow, mew meeeow mew mew meeeeow meow meow

upon our little vessel during that four years’ cruise, I shall not pretend
meow mew meeeow meeeow meeeow meow meow meoow’ meeeow, M meeow mew meoooow

to say, although all hands forward firmly believed he was. Like the
me mew, meeeeeow mew meeow meeooow meeeow meeeeoow me mew. Meow mew

witch-wife in Allan Ramsay’s Gentle Shepherd--Tom
meeow-meow me Meeow Meeoow’m Meeeow Meeoooow--Mew




  “Got the wyte o’ a’ fell oot;”
  “Mew mew meow m’ m’ meow mew;”




and certainly Snarley-yow and his master were never more detested than
mew meeeeeoow Meeeeow-mew mew mew meooow meow meoow meow meeeeeow meow

that black cat, and the skipper eventually came to be.
meow meeow mew, mew mew meeooow meeeeeeoow meow me me.







“LIFE-BOAT’S CREW, AHOY!”
“MEOW-MEOW’M MEOW, MEOW!”




Once, I remember, we experienced a spell of weather so dark and unsettled,
Meow, M meooooow, me meoooooooow m meeow me meeeoow me meow mew meeeeeeow,

that a general gloom prevailed in the ship fore and aft. We were rounding
meow m meoooow meoow meeeeeeow me mew meow meow mew mew. Me meow meeeooow

the Cape in mid-winter. First we had a gale of wind, our bulwarks stove in
mew Meow me mew-meooow. Meoow me mew m meow me meow, mew meeeooow meoow me

forward, and a boat washed overboard. Then several days with no wind, but
meeeeow, mew m meow meooow meeeoooow. Meow meeeoow meow meow me meow, mew

a heavy sea on, and the horizon close aboard of us on every side. The
m meoow mew me, mew mew meeooow meeow meeoow me me me meoow meow. Mew

nights were pitchy dark, with thunder and lightning so appalling that no
meooow meow meooow meow, meow meeeeow mew meeooooow me meeeeeoow meow me

one thought of turning in, till far on in the middle watch. Scenes like
mew meeeoow me meeeeow me, meow mew me me mew meooow meeow. Meeeow meow

these can never be described. They are painted with the finger of awe on
meeow mew meoow me meeeeeeow. Meow mew meeooow meow mew meeeow me mew me

the beholder’s memory, and time cannot efface them. I can see even now our
mew meeeooow’m meeoow, mew meow meeoow meeoow meow. M mew mew meow mew mew

little vessel, hanging bows on to the side of that dark wave, the hill of
meeeow meeeow, meeeoow meow me me mew meow me meow meow meow, mew meow me

water rising above us, the inky gulph beneath, her wet and slippery decks,
meoow meeoow meoow me, mew meow meeow meeooow, mew mew mew meeoooow meeow,

and the faces of the men that cling to the cordage, ghastly in the
mew mew meeow me mew mew meow meeow me mew meeeeow, meeeeow me mew

lightning’s glare. A moment more and we are on the brow of the wave, then
meeeeooow’m meeow. M meooow meow mew me mew me mew meow me mew meow, meow

down we drive into the very trough of the sea, where, for a few seconds,
meow me meoow meow mew meow meeoow me mew mew, meoow, mew m mew meoooow,

the ship lies trembling, as if every timber in her sides was instinct with
mew meow meow meeeeeeow, me me meeow meooow me mew meoow mew meeeeoow meow

life. On such a night as this Tom fell overboard. This may seem like a
meow. Me meow m meeow me meow Mew meow meoooooow. Meow mew meow meow m

descent from the sublime to the ridiculous. It is a fact, however, and was
meeeeow meow mew meeeeow me mew meooooooow. Me me m meow, meeooow, mew mew

a very disagreeable descent indeed for poor Tom. The life-buoy was almost
m meow meeoooooooow meeeoow meeoow mew meow Mew. Mew meow-meow mew meeoow

instantly fired and let go by the commander himself, who alone saw the
meeeeeeow meoow mew mew me me mew meeeeeeow meeeoow, mew meoow mew mew

accident.
meeoooow.




“Ease her! stop her!” he roared. “Away life-boat’s crew!”
“Meow mew! meow mew!” me meeoow. “Meow meow-meow’m meow!”




Up tumbled the crew, the boat was lowered, and in two minutes more they
Me meeeeow mew meow, mew meow mew meeooow, mew me mew meoooow meow meow

had dropped astern, and were pulling with might and main for the now
mew meeooow meooow, mew meow meeeoow meow meoow mew meow mew mew mew

distant life-buoy. The storm had by this time passed over, save an
meeeoow meow-meow. Mew meoow mew me meow meow meooow meow, meow me

occasional flash of lightning. For fully ten minutes, each time we rose on
meeeooooow meeow me meeeeeeow. Mew meeow mew meeooow, meow meow me meow me

the crest of a great wave, we could distinctly see the life-buoy’s light,
mew meeow me m meeow meow, me meeow meeoooooow mew mew meow-meow’m meoow,

burning bright and beacon-like, away to leeward of us; then it flickered
meeooow meeeow mew meooow-meow, meow me meeooow me me; meow me meoooooow

feebly, and finally went out.
meeeow, mew meeooow meow mew.




“Gracious heavens!” exclaimed the Captain, “that light was never
“Meooooow meeeoow!” meeooooow mew Meeooow, “meow meeow mew meeow

extinguished: _it has gone out_.” Five minutes, ten, fifteen minutes
meeeeeeeeeow: mew mew meow meow.” Meow meeooow, mew, meeeoow meeeeow

elapsed in dead silence. We leant over the bulwarks, and could feel our
meeeoow me meow meeooow. Me meeow meow mew meeeooow, mew meoow meow mew

hearts throbbing against them, as we peered into the darkness and listened
meeeow meeooooow meeeeow meow, me me meeeow meow mew meooooow mew meooooow

for the slightest sound; only an occasional glimmer played along the
mew mew meeeoooow meoow; meow me meeeeeooow meeeeow meeoow meoow mew

horizon, only now and then the splash of a breaking wave. Hours passed by,
meeooow, meow mew mew meow mew meeeow me m meooooow meow. Meoow meooow me,

and still no signal from the deep, to tell us aught of life was there; and
mew meoow me meooow meow mew meow, me meow me meoow me meow mew meoow; mew

all that long dismal night, rockets were let off, bluelights burned, and
mew meow meow meeeow meeow, meeeeow meow mew mew, meeoooooow meeoow, mew

big guns fired. But the sea gave never a sign. How anxious we all were! No
mew meow meeow. Mew mew mew meow meeow m meow. Mew meeooow me mew meow! Me

one had a thought of retiring. The captain spent his time in alternately
mew mew m meeeeow me meeoooow. Mew meeeeow meoow mew meow me meoooooooow

pacing frantically up and down the deck, and in diving down below,--we all
meeoow meeeeeeeoow me mew meow mew meow, mew me meeoow meow meeow,--me mew

knew for what. At last he wept like a child, and tore his hair out in
meow mew meow. Me meow me meow meow m meoow, mew meow mew meow mew me

handfuls. I felt sorry for him at first, until I heard him curse his own
meeeeoow. M meow meoow mew mew me meoow, meeow M meeow mew meeow mew mew

evil fate, because his fourteen years’ service would all be lost. It was
meow meow, meeooow mew meeoooow meoow’ meeooow meeow mew me meow. Me mew

self not the poor men he was thinking of.
meow mew mew meow mew me mew meeoooow me.




But the longest time has an end, and morning came at last, and just as the
Mew mew meeeeow meow mew me mew, mew meeeeow meow me meow, mew meow me mew

horizon was becoming dimly visible through the rising mist, and silence
meeeeow mew meeeeeow meoow meeeeow meoooow mew meooow meow, mew meeeeow

was reigning fore and aft--for both men and officers were tired out with
mew meooooow meow mew mew--mew meow mew mew meeeooow meow meoow mew meow

suspense and long watching--we were all startled and rendered as wide
meeeooow mew meow meeoooow--me meow mew meeeeeow mew meooooow me meow

awake as ever we were in our lives. For, borne along on the morning
meoow me meow me meow me mew meoow. Mew, meeow meoow me mew meeeoow

air--breeze it could hardly be called--came a faint shout. One moment all
mew--meooow me meeow meooow me meeoow--meow m meeow meoow. Mew meooow mew

hands listened: it was repeated.
meoow meeoooow: me mew meooooow.




“Shout, my lads,” cried the captain, all his manhood returning at once;
“Meeow, me meow,” meoow mew meeooow, mew mew meeooow meeooooow me meow;

and such a ringing cheer was sent over the waters, as only could proceed
mew meow m meoooow meoow mew meow meow mew meeoow, me meow meoow meeeeow

from the lungs of Britain’s sailors.
meow mew meoow me Meeooow’m meeeoow.




[15]My! how every face brightened; and, my! how every eye glanced and
[me]Me! mew meoow meow meeoooooow; mew, me! mew meeow mew meeeeow mew

glittered, as that boat loomed out from the fog. She was soon alongside,
meeeoooow, me meow meow meeeow mew meow mew mew. Mew mew meow meeooooow,

all hands were safe, and the first on board was _the skipper’s imp_. There
mew meoow meow meow, mew mew meoow me meeow mew meow meoooow’m meow. Meoow

was one old sailor who had been very quiet all the night, but who now
mew mew mew meooow mew mew meow meow meeow mew mew meeow, mew mew mew

burst into such sobbing as I never heard before. The poor man’s son had
meoow meow meow meeeoow me M meeow meeow meooow. Mew meow mew’m mew mew

been in the boat.
meow me mew meow.




Did we splice the main-brace? Rather. We spliced it on deck, and we went
Mew me meeoow mew meow-meeow? Meeeow. Me meeooow me me meow, mew me meow

below to the ward-room and spliced it again; in fact that main brace took
meeow me mew meow-meow mew meeooow me meeow; me meow meow meow meeow meow

a good deal of splicing, then we turned in and slept till noon, and I
m meow meow me meeeooow, meow me meeoow me mew meeow meow meow, mew M

dreamt I was spliced myself.
meeeow M mew meoooow meooow.







SHIP ON FIRE.
MEOW ME MEOW.




If I remember rightly, we were somewhere in lat. 17° South, and a good
Me M meeeeeow meeeeow, me meow meeooooow me mew. me° Meeow, mew m meow

way off land. We had been cracking on all the forenoon under steam, after
mew mew meow. Me mew meow meeeeoow me mew mew meeeeoow meeow meoow, meoow

a Northern slave-ship, which we had finally boarded, captured, and taken
m Meeeeeow meeow-meow, meeow me mew meeooow meeeeow, meooooow, mew meeow

in tow. A fine pair of heels she had shown us too. We had to burn hams to
me mew. M meow meow me meeow mew mew meoow me mew. Me mew me meow meow me

get within shot of her. But we did at last, and there she was, with a
mew meeeow meow me mew. Mew me mew me meow, mew meoow mew mew, meow m

prize crew on board, and the fiery old Arabs glaring like evil spirits at
meoow meow me meeow, mew mew meoow mew Meeow meeeeow meow meow meoooow me

us as they leaned over her taffrail. A breeze had sprung up towards four
me me meow meeoow meow mew meeeooow. M meooow mew meooow me meoooow meow

o’clock, and the orders were given to bank fires and set sail. I was
m’meoow, mew mew meooow meow meoow me meow meeow mew mew meow. M mew

sitting in the ward-room reading, when--
meeeoow me mew meow-meow meeooow, meow--




“Look Jim!” I heard some one on deck remark. “Where is that thundering old
“Meow Mew!” M meoow meow mew me meow meeeow. “Meoow me meow meeeeoooow mew

cat going to now?”
mew meeow me mew?”




“Bedad then,” said Jim, “but he’s taking the rigging like a good one
“Meoow meow,” meow Mew, “mew me’m meeeow mew meeooow meow m meow mew

anyhow. Shouldn’t wonder now if he was going to give us another spache.”
meeoow. Meeeoow’m meooow mew me me mew meoow me meow me meeeoow meeeow.”




I ran up just in time to see the cat shin hand over hand up the main-top
M mew me meow me meow me mew mew mew meow meow meow meow me mew meow-mew

gallant mast, and seat himself on the very truck, in the exact spot he had
meeooow meow, mew meow meeooow me mew meow meoow, me mew meeow meow me mew

occupied in his first adventure on board, when the captain fired at him.
meooooow me mew meoow meeeeeeow me meeow, meow mew meeooow meoow me mew.




It had gone three bells in the first dog watch;[16] we had just finished
Me mew meow meeow meoow me mew meeow mew meoow;[me] me mew meow meeeeoow

tea, and gone on deck to smoke our evening pipe. We were making ourselves
mew, mew meow me meow me meeow mew meoooow meow. Me meow meooow meeeeeeow

very comfortable on the stern gratings, and our Scotch engineer--naval
meow meeeoooooow me mew meoow meeeeoow, mew mew Meeeow meeeeeow--meeow

engineers for the most part are Scotch--was singing “For we are homeward
meoooooow mew mew meow meow mew Meooow--mew meoooow “Mew me mew meeoooow

bound;” not that we were homeward bound by a long chalk, but it gave us
meeow;” mew meow me meow meeeeeow meoow me m meow meoow, mew me meow me

the idea we were, don’t you know? and made us feel all the jollier, when
mew meow me meow, mew’m mew meow? mew meow me meow mew mew meoooow, meow

the quartermaster came aft, and addressing the officer of the watch--
mew meeeeeeeeooow meow mew, mew meeeeeeeow mew meeooow me mew meeow--




“I beg your pardon, sir,” he said, leisurely, turning his quid in his
“M mew meow meeoow, mew,” me meow, meeeeeeow, meeeoow mew meow me mew

mouth, “but I think, sir, there be a strong smell of fire right
meeow, “mew M meoow, mew, meeow me m meeoow meeow me meow meoow

amidships.”
meeeoooow.”




We went forward.
Me meow meeooow.




The second cutter lay bottom upwards, between the fore and main masts, and
Mew meooow meeoow mew meeeow meeeoow, meoooow mew meow mew meow meoow, mew

from under its gunnel were curling little puffs of light blue smoke, for
meow meoow mew meeeow meow meeeeow meeoow meoow me meoow meow meoow, mew

all the world as if some one were smoking a cigar beneath the boat. But
mew mew meoow me me meow mew meow meeeoow m meeow meeeeow mew meow. Mew

the smoke had _the smell of burning wood_.
mew meeow mew meow meeow me meoooow meoow.




_Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding._ Ah! had Edgar Allan Poe heard that
mEeow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow.m Me! mew Meeow Meoow Mew meeow meow

bell, he might have added one other stanza to that strange wild poem of
meow, me meeow meow meeow mew meeow meeoow me meow meoooow meow meow me

his. _Ding, ding, ding, ding._ You never heard it, did you reader? Well,
mew. mEeow, meow, meow, meow.m Mew meeow meoow me, mew mew meeoow? Meow,

it is a pleasure you still have before you. The breeze was freshening
me me m meeoooow mew meoow meow meeeow mew. Mew meooow mew meeoooooow

every minute, the sea was getting its back up, and darkness thickening
meeow meeeow, mew mew mew meoooow mew meow me, mew meooooow meeoooooow

around us. But what mattered darkness, we should soon light up old ocean
meeeow me. Mew meow meeeooow meeoooow, me meooow meow meoow me mew meeow

with our burning ship.
meow mew meeeoow meow.




_Ding, ding, ding_--up tumble the hands at the dread summons. The hoses
mEoow, meow, meeow--me meooow mew meoow me mew meeow meeeoow. Mew meoow

are laid, the pumps rigged and manned as if by magic, and before the last
mew meow, mew meeow meeoow mew meooow me me me meeow, mew meeeow mew meow

sound of the bell is borne away on the breeze, every man is at quarters,
meoow me mew meow me meeow meow me mew meeoow, meeow mew me me meeeooow,

steady, grave, and silent--waiting. _Waiting?_ Aye; fancy having to wait
meooow, meeow, mew meeoow--meoooow. mEeeooow?m Mew; meeow meooow me meow

for a single moment, with the fire crackling under the broiling deck, and
mew m meeeow meeeow, meow mew meow meeeeooow meoow mew meeeooow meow, mew

tons of powder under hatches. But service is service--the captain alone
meow me meooow meoow meoooow. Mew meeeoow me meeeoow--mew meoooow meoow

has not responded to the alarm, and the officer of the watch has gone to
mew mew meeooooow me mew meoow, mew mew meeeeow me mew meoow mew meow me

call him. Worthy man, he was--
meow mew. Meooow mew, me mew--




    “Not fou, he just was glorious,
    “Mew mew, me meow mew meeeeeow,

  O’er a’ the ills of life victorious.”
  M’me m’ mew meow me meow meeeeoooow.”




“Oh!” he said; “ship’s on fire, is she. Then go you to blazes.”
“Me!” me meow; “meow’m me meow, me mew. Meow me mew me meooow.”




He came up soon, however, and every man that night did his duty. Nothing
Me meow me meow, meeeeow, mew meoow mew meow meoow mew mew meow. Meeeeow

in the world, save British pluck and coolness, could have conquered that
me mew meoow, meow Meeeoow meoow mew meeeeoow, meoow meow meeeeeoow meow

fire. It was the padding at the back of the boiler that had caught, and
meow. Me mew mew meeeeow me mew meow me mew meeoow meow mew meeeow, mew

burning through, had kindled the coals behind, and when the decks were
meeooow meeeoow, mew meeeoow mew meoow meeoow, mew meow mew meoow meow

scuttled, the scene below was like a red raging hell.
meeeeoow, mew meoow meoow mew meow m mew meooow meow.




In less than two hours however, the flames were got under and the fire
Me meow meow mew meoow meoooow, mew meeeow meow mew meeow mew mew meow

extinguished; and, saving the watch on deck, the crew, tired and bruised,
meooooooooow; mew, meeeow mew meoow me meow, mew meow, meeow mew meeeoow,

and many of them scalded, had gone below, while the carpenters were busy
mew meow me meow meoooow, mew meow meeow, meeow mew meeeeeeeow meow meow

repairing decks; for in a man-of-war every trace of recent danger, whether
meeeeooow meoow; mew me m mew-me-mew meoow meoow me meeeow meeoow, meoooow

from wind or fire or foe, is speedily erased.
meow meow me meow me mew, me meeoooow meooow.




A shoal of sharks that had been following the ship expectant,
M meeow me meeeow meow mew meow meeeoooow mew meow meeeeeoow,

disappointed, sought deeper water, and black Tom, the cat, came down from
meeeeeeeeeow, meooow meeeow meeow, mew meeow Mew, mew mew, meow meow meow

his perch on the main-truck, singing a song of deliverance.
mew meeow me mew meow-meoow, meeeeow m meow me meoooooooow.







MINOR MISHAPS.
MEEOW MEEEEOW.




It would take a long time indeed to narrate all the misadventures we had
Me meoow meow m meow meow meeeow me meeeoow mew mew meeeeeeooooow me mew

in that cruise. We got quite used to running on shore, being awakened any
me meow meooow. Me mew meoow meow me meeooow me meeow, meeow meeeeeow mew

night, with that strange grating noise beneath our keel, and the sudden
meeow, meow meow meeeeow meeeoow meeow meoooow mew meow, mew mew meooow

cessation of all motion, which tells the experienced sailor better than
meoooooow me mew meeoow, meeow meeow mew meeeeeoooow meooow meeeow meow

words can, that the ship has struck. One bright moonlight night, far on in
meoow mew, meow mew meow mew meeeow. Mew meooow meeooooow meeow, mew me me

the middle watch, we ran aground on the Lyra reef. Luckily the tide was
mew meeoow meeow, me mew meoooow me mew Meow meow. Meeeeow mew meow mew

not full nor the wind blowing. By next morning we had lowered the boats,
mew meow mew mew meow meeeoow. Me meow meeeeow me mew meeooow mew meeow,

and sent over the guns to lighten ship, and lay waiting for the tide. A
mew meow meow mew meow me meeeoow meow, mew mew meeeeow mew mew meow. M

bright sky, and a blue, blue sea all around, with never a sail in sight,
meooow mew, mew m meow, meow mew mew meeoow, meow meoow m meow me meeow,

nay, not even a bird. The waters so pellucid and clear, that leaning over
mew, mew meow m meow. Mew meeeow me meeeeoow mew meeow, meow meoooow meow

the bulwarks we could see the yellow sand at the bottom, see forests and
mew meeeeeow me meoow mew mew meooow meow me mew meeeow, mew meeeeow mew

gardens of marine plants, and flowers pink-petalled or tender green,
meoooow me meeoow meooow, mew meeooow meow-meeeeoow me meeoow meeow,

gently waving to and fro in the current; see the transparent medusæ
meooow meooow me mew mew me mew meeeoow; mew mew meeeoooooow meeoow

disporting their rainbow beauties, and see the thousand and one
meeeeeeeow meeow meeeoow meeoooow, mew mew mew meeoooow mew mew

strange-looking tropical fishes, of colours so bright and shapes so
meoooow-meoooow meeeeeow meooow, me meeeeow me meeoow mew meeoow me

grotesque, that they seemed the fishes of our dreams, or caricatures of
meeeeooow, meow meow meeeow mew meeeow me mew meeeow, me meoooooooow me

animal life.
meeeow meow.




Fast and sure on that reef we lay for upwards of forty-eight hours, and it
Meow mew meow me meow meow me mew mew meeooow me meoow-meeow meeow, mew me

was only by lightening the ship of coals, and buoying her with empty rum
mew meow me meooooooow mew meow me meoow, mew meeeeow mew meow meeow mew

casks that we got safely afloat at last. The men were in good spirits all
meeow meow me mew meeoow meeeow me meow. Mew mew meow me meow meoooow mew

the time, because forsooth, the cat, was “_singing like all possessed_.”
mew meow, meeeoow meeeeoow, mew mew, mew “meeoooow meow mew meooooooow.”







NOTHING TO EAT.
MEEOOOW ME MEW.




It was the last voyage of the cruise. We were steering from Zanzibar to
Me mew mew meow meooow me mew meooow. Me meow meeeeeow meow Meeeeoow me

the Cape, under orders home. We had on board with us no less a personage
mew Meow, meoow meooow meow. Me mew me meeow meow me me meow m meeeeooow

than the bishop of C---- A---- and his learned curate, Dr. Blank. Now we
meow mew meeoow me M---- M---- mew mew meeeoow meeoow, Me. Meoow. Mew me

had not been to sea over three days when, lo and behold! one-half, at
mew mew meow me mew meow meoow meow meow, me mew meeoow! mew-meow, me

least, of the casks of beef and provisions, supposed to be full, were
meeow, me mew meeow me meow mew meeeeeeoow, meeeeeow me me meow, meow

found to be mere dummies. It was nobody’s fault--it always is nobody’s
meoow me me meow meeeoow. Me mew meooow’m meoow--me meooow me meeoow’m

fault in a case of that sort--but the upshot of it was, that all hands
meeow me m meow me meow meow--mew mew meooow me me mew, meow mew meoow

were put upon short allowance; and as our mess--having got into debt--was
meow mew meow meeow meeeeooow; mew me mew meow--meeeow mew meow meow--mew

just then living on ship’s provisions, we officers had to suffer the same
meow meow meeoow me meow’m meeeeeeoow, me meeeeeow mew me meeeow mew meow

privations as the men. Besides, we had neither beer, wine, nor spirits on
meeeeoooow me mew mew. Meeeoow, me mew meoooow meow, meow, mew meeeoow me

board, very little water, and no coals to spare to distil more.
meoow, meow meeeow meeow, mew me meeow me meeow me meeoow meow.




This was a very pretty look out for a three weeks’ voyage, to the Cape, in
Meow mew m meow meooow meow mew mew m meeow meeow’ meeeow, me mew Meow, me

mid-winter. And poor Tom came in for more cursing now than ever. Everybody
mew-meeoow. Mew meow Mew meow me mew meow meeeeow mew meow meow. Meeeoooow

cursed him everywhere; they cursed him below and cursed him aloft; cursed
meeoow mew meeeeeeeow; meow meooow mew meoow mew meeeow mew meeow; meooow

him on the quarter-deck, and cursed him in the cook’s galley. But Tom only
mew me mew meoooow-meow, mew meeoow mew me mew meow’m meooow. Mew Mew meow

sung the louder.
meow mew meooow.




“It was all along of that blessed cat,” the sailors said; and they added,
“Me mew mew meoow me meow meeeeow mew,” mew meeeoow meow; mew meow meeow,

“that it was a good thing we had my lord bishop on board, to counteract
“meow me mew m meow meeow me mew me meow meeoow me meeow, me meeeooooow

the evil effects of the skipper’s imp.” The poor bishop suffered too, but
mew meow meeooow me mew meoooow’m mew.” Mew meow meeoow meooooow mew, mew

mostly from sea-sickness. He kept his bed all the voyage. He was a stout
meeoow meow mew-meeoooow. Me meow mew mew mew mew meooow. Me mew m meoow

man at Zanzibar, but he got considerably thinner, before we reached the
mew me Meooooow, mew me mew meeeeoooooow meeeeow, meeoow me meeeeow mew

Cape. But his curate was more to be pitied, he was a thin man, didn’t get
Meow. Mew mew meeeow mew meow me me meeeow, me mew m meow mew, meow’m mew

sick, and had a stomach like a brewer’s horse; and the more sorrow for
meow, mew mew m meeooow meow m meeeow’m meoow; mew mew meow meooow mew

that same, there being so little to put into it. Our biscuit must, I
meow meow, meeow meoow me meeoow me mew meow me. Mew meeooow meow, M

think, have been baked before the flood, each morsel, while black with
meoow, meow meow meoow meooow mew meeow, meow meeeow, meoow meoow meow

cockroaches’ filth outside, entertaining a whole colony of weevils inside;
meeeeeoooow’ meoow meeooow, meeeeeeoooow m meeow meeoow me meeooow meeoow;

we ate the weevils, however, merely tapping each morsel on the table to
me mew mew meeeeow, meeeoow, meeoow meeeeow meow meooow me mew meeow me

get rid of the superabundant dust, before conveying it to our mouths. We
mew mew me mew meeeeeoooooow meow, meeoow meeeeeoow me me mew meeoow. Me

had neither potatoes nor butter. We had white beans though, and black rice
mew meoooow meeeeoow mew meeoow. Me mew meeow meoow meeoow, mew meeow meow

and fried sardines, to which latter we used to add a little turmeric and
mew meoow meeeooow, me meeow meeeow me meow me mew m meeoow meeeeoow mew

cayenne by way of flavouring. We actually got mean in our hunger, and used
meeeoow me mew me meeeeeooow. Me meooooow mew meow me mew meooow, mew meow

to say little snappish things to each other, about our share of the
me mew meooow meeeeoow meeeow me meow meoow, meoow mew meoow me mew

victuals; things which we would have been ashamed to say under any other
meeeeeow; meeeow meoow me meeow meow meow meeeoow me mew meeow mew meeow

circumstances. No one, I can assure you, was above helping himself, to the
meeeeeeooooow. Me mew, M mew meeoow mew, mew meeow meeeeow meoooow, me mew

last spoonful of rice or beans, out of a delicate feeling of consideration
meow meeoooow me meow me meeow, mew me m meeeeeow meeeoow me meeeeeoooooow

for his neighbour. In good sooth, sometimes three or four spoons, would
mew mew meeeeeoow. Me meow meoow, meeeeooow meoow me meow meeoow, meoow

meet at the dish at once in most undignified haste.
meow me mew meow me meow me meow meeeeooooow meeow.




“Gentlemen, gentlemen,” our little good-natured assistant paymaster would
“Meeeoooow, meeeeooow,” mew meeoow meow-meoooow meeeeeoow meeeeeoow meoow

say; “better is a dinner of rice and fried sardines, where love is, than a
mew; “meeoow me m meeeow me meow mew meeow meeeooow, meeow meow me, meow m

stallëd ox and hatred therewith.”
meeeeow me mew meeeow meeeeeeow.”




We should just have liked to have seen the stallëd ox, that’s all. But
Me meeoow meow meow meoow me meow meow mew meeooow me, meow’m mew. Mew

this assistant paymaster was a stout bulky little chap, and didn’t suffer
meow meeeeooow meeeeooow mew m meeow meeow meooow meow, mew meow’m meooow

half what we did. I’m certain he lived on his own fat all the way to the
meow meow me mew. M’m meeeeow me meeow me mew mew mew mew mew mew me mew

Cape, just as the sheep in the Highlands do, when they have the misfortune
Meow, meow me mew meoow me mew Meoooooow me, meow meow meow mew meeeeeeoow

to be buried in the snow for a week or two. Our conversation all the
me me meooow me mew meow mew m meow me mew. Mew meooooooooow mew mew

dinner hour--when we weren’t quarrelling--used to be about this glorious
meeoow meow--meow me meeow’m meeeeooooow--meow me me meoow meow meeeeoow

feed, and the next glorious feed, which we once had; and it would
meow, mew mew meow meeeeoow meow, meoow me meow mew; mew me meeow

certainly have been amusing for an outsider--who wasn’t hungry himself
meeeeeeow meow meow meeeeow mew me meooooow--mew meow’m meooow meoooow

mind you--to have heard us, enlarging on all the dainties that had been
meow mew--me meow meeow me, meeeeeeow me mew mew meeeeeow meow mew meow

set before us in happier times.
mew meeeow me me meeooow meoow.




Our conversation would have been somewhat after the following fashion:--
Mew meeeeeeeeeow meoow meow meow meeoooow meoow mew meeeeeoow meeooow:--




_S._ “But, by George, when I was in the P. & O. Co.’s Service--ay, old
ME.m “Mew, me Meeoow, meow M mew me mew M. & M. Me.’m Meoooow--me, mew

fellows, that was the place to live--there is where we used to get _the_
meeeeow, meow mew mew meoow me meow--meoow me meeow me meow me mew meoow

spreads.”
meeeoow.”




_All._ “Yes, yes; tell us, there’s a dear boy. What had you for dinner?”
mEow.m “Mew, mew; meow me, meoow’m m meow mew. Meow mew mew mew meooow?”




_S._ “Well, you know, the bill of fare used to be two yards long, and a
ME.m “Meow, mew meow, mew meow me meow meow me me mew meoow meow, mew m

yard and a quarter wide. We had two soups, and then----”
meow mew m meeeeow meow. Me mew mew meeow, mew meow----”




_All._ “No, no; tell us first what the soups were?”
mEow.m “Me, me; meow me meeow meow mew meeow meow?”




_S._ “Well, say vermicelli and macaro--Oh! hang it all, Moreton, that’s
ME.m “Meow, mew meeoooooow mew meooow--Me! meow me mew, Meeooow, meow’m

the third time to my certain knowledge, that you’ve helped yourself to
mew meeow meow me me meoooow meeooooow, meow mew’me meooow meooooow me

rice.”
meow.”




_Moreton._ “To-morrow’s pea-soup day, never mind.”
mEeoooow.m “Me-meooow’m mew-meow mew, meeow meow.”




_S._ “But I do mind.”
ME.m “Mew M me meow.”




_All._ “Go on with your yarn.”
mEow.m “Me me meow meow meow.”




_S._ “Well, vermicelli and macaroni, and then a bit of delicious white
ME.m “Meow, meeeeoooow mew meooooow, mew meow m mew me meoooooow meeow

turbot, with oyster sauce and----”
meeeow, meow meeoow meoow mew----”




_All._ “Yes, yes; go on.”
mEow.m “Mew, mew; me me.”




_S._ “All very well to say go on; but I _shall_ have those three beans,
ME.m “Mew meow meow me mew me me; mew M meeooow meow meeow meoow meoow,

you greedy beggars. Well, then, after the fish came--” etc., etc., etc.
mew meeeow meoooow. Meow, meow, meoow mew meow meow--” mew., mew., mew.




When S. had finished, R. would begin.
Meow M. mew meeeeeow, M. meeow meoow.




“That just reminds me of an hotel I was at in France,” etc., and so each
“Meow meow meoooow me me me meoow M mew me me Meooow,” mew., mew me meow

one told his experiences, to the infinite delectation of his neighbours,
mew meow mew meeeoooooow, me mew meeoooow meeeeeeeoow me mew meeeooooow,

and having locust-like devoured everything we came across, we used to get
mew meeoow meeoow-meow meooooow meeeeoooow me meow meeoow, me meow me mew

up hungry and haggard, and run on deck to smoke away the tail end of our
me meooow mew meeooow, mew mew me meow me meeow meow mew meow mew me mew

appetite.
meeoooow.




In those days, our grace before and after meat was rather a peculiar one.
Me meeow meow, mew meoow meeoow mew meoow meow mew meeoow m meeeeeow mew.

The president said the first; it was, “Curse the cat.” Then just before we
Mew meoooooow meow mew meeow; me mew, “Meeow mew mew.” Meow meow meeeow me

rose from table, “Mr. Vice, will you kindly return thanks.”
meow meow meeow, “Me. Meow, meow mew meeeow meeeow meeoow.”




“_Confound_ the cat.”
“mEeoooooow mew mew.”







THE LAST OF THE SKIPPER’S IMP.
MEW MEOW ME MEW MEOOOOW’M MEW.




No one ever saw the last of him, however; although a seaman, called Davis,
Me mew meow mew mew meow me mew, meeooow; meeeooow m meooow, meeoow Meoow,

swore point black, that he had seen the cat fly overboard in a sheet of
meoow meoow meeow, meow me mew meow mew mew mew meeeoooow me m meeow me

blue flame; but then Davis was the biggest lubber and the greatest liar
meow meeow; mew meow Meoow mew mew meeeoow meeoow mew mew meeeooow meow

in the ship. The only thing known for certain is this: we were about three
me mew meow. Mew meow meoow meoow mew meeooow me meow: me meow meeow meeow

days’ sail from Symon’s Town, Cape of Good Hope. The night was dark and
meow’ meow meow Meeow’m Meow, Meow me Meow Meow. Mew meeow mew meow mew

the weather squally, and poor Tom was last seen sitting, very quiet and
mew meeeoow meeooow, mew meow Mew mew meow meow meoooow, meow meeow mew

pensive-like, on the hammock nettings aft. He was seen there, I say, in
meoooow-meow, me mew meeooow meeeooow mew. Me mew meow meeow, M mew, me

the middle watch; and he was never seen again alive or dead. The men swore
mew meeoow meeow; mew me mew meoow meow meoow meeow me meow. Mew mew meoow

roundly that he was a devil nothing more nor less, and that, being a
meeooow meow me mew m meeow meeeeow meow mew meow, mew meow, meoow m

devil, he couldn’t stomach my lord bishop on board, and consequently took
meoow, me meeeow’m meeeeow me meow meooow me meeow, mew meeeeeeeeeow meow

French leave and went home. The truth, I suppose is, that the ship gave a
Meeoow meoow mew meow meow. Mew meeow, M meeooow me, meow mew meow meow m

nasty lee lurch, and Tom, half asleep, missed his footing, and tumbled
meoow mew meoow, mew Mew, meow meeeow, meooow mew meeeoow, mew meeooow

overboard. I know the skipper was sorry.
meoooooow. M meow mew meeeeow mew meoow.




We kept a good look out for the _Flying Dutchman_ after Tom’s demise; but
Me meow m meow meow mew mew mew mEoooow Meeooooow meeow Mew’m meeoow; mew

very much to my disappointment, we did not fall in with that ghostly ship.
meow meow me me meeeooooooooow, me mew mew meow me meow meow meeeeow meow.

If I were merely writing a sailor’s yarn, I should certainly say we had
Me M meow meooow meeeeow m meooow’m meow, M meooow meoooooow mew me mew

seen her, and give a most photographic-like description of her; but such
meow mew, mew meow m meow meeoooooooow-meow meoooooooow me mew; mew meow

stories I leave landsmen to tell, for I think if a man has been for ten or
meeooow M meeow meeeeoow me meow, mew M meeow me m mew mew meow mew mew me

a dozen years at sea, and kept his weather eye lifting all the time, it
m meoow meeow me mew, mew meow mew meeeoow mew meeooow mew mew meow, me

will take him the remainder of his life to tell the whole _truth alone_.
meow meow mew mew meeeeooow me mew meow me meow mew meeow meooow meeeow.




When we came down to the Cape, which we managed to do without any further
Meow me meow meow me mew Meow, meoow me meoooow me me meeeoow mew meeeoow

adventures, there lay the new admiral’s ship, all spick and span from
meooooooow, meoow mew mew mew meeeeow’m meow, mew meeow mew meow meow

England’s shores, so all our fellows were turned over to, and went home in
Meeeoow’m meeoow, me mew mew meeeoow meow meooow meow me, mew meow meow me

the old Admiral’s ship, all except our engineer and my unhappy self. We,
mew mew Meoooow’m meow, mew meeeow mew meeeooow mew me meeeoow meow. Me,

much to our disgust, were reappointed to the saucy _Tickler_, which was to
meow me mew meeeeow, meow meeeeeeeeow me mew meeow mEeooooow, meeow mew me

remain out for another commission, as tender to the new flagship. Now,
meooow mew mew meeeeow meeeooooow, me meooow me mew mew meeeooow. Mew,

however, we had a new captain, the jolliest little man alive; new
meeeeow, me mew m mew meoooow, mew meeeeeow meeeow mew meoow; mew

officers, and a new crew, and we were all as jolly as sandboys. The new
meooooow, mew m mew meow, mew me meow mew me meoow me meooooow. Mew mew

officers thought themselves tremendously clever chaps, and every night
meeoooow meoooow meeeeoooow meeeeeeeooow meooow meeow, mew meeow meeow

they used all to pull off their slippers and go pell mell at the
meow meow mew me meow mew meoow meeeooow mew me meow meow me mew

unfortunate cockroaches; but the engineer and I sat like stoics, and let
meeeeeoooow meoooooooow; mew mew meooooow mew M mew meow meeoow, mew mew

them crawl over us in scores, and if too many at one time came on the
meow meeow meow me me meeoow, mew me mew meow me mew meow meow me mew

book we might be reading, we gently removed them. But before a month was
meow me meeow me meeooow, me meeeow meeeoow meow. Mew meeoow m meeow mew

over, our messmates found out the futility, of trying to diminish the
meow, mew meeeeeeow meoow mew mew meooooow, me meeeow me meeoooow mew

number of cockroaches, and these interesting creatures had _carte blanche_
meeeow me meeooooooow, mew meeow meeeeeoooow meeeeeoow mew meeeow meeoooow

all over the ship.
mew meow mew meow.




[Illustration: TORTOISESHELL.
[Meeeeeooooow: MEEEEEEEEEEOW.




First Prize--Owned by MR. L. SMITH.]
Meoow Meoow--Meoow me ME. M. MEOOW.]




[Illustration: SILVER, or BLUE TABBY.
[Meeeeeeeooow: MEOOOW, me MEOW MEOOW.




First Prize--Owned by MR. REYNOLDS.]
Meeow Meeow--Meoow me ME. MEEEOOOW.]




We sailed for Bombay.
Me meooow mew Meeoow.




But though black Tom was no more, ill-luck seemed still to hover in the
Mew meeeow meoow Mew mew me meow, mew-meow meeoow meeow me meoow me mew

wake of that little vessel.
meow me meow meooow meeeow.




I would willingly narrate our further adventures in detail, but somehow I
M meeow meeeoooow meeeeow mew meeeoow meeeooooow me meeoow, mew meeooow M

have no heart, now that the cat has left the story. But, how we were
meow me meeow, mew meow mew mew mew meow mew meoow. Mew, mew me meow

caught in a gale off the Cape and the ship _taken aback_ (that, reader, is
meeoow me m meow mew mew Meow mew mew meow meooow meeoow (meow, meooow, me

much more dreadful than it appears on paper), how we sprang a leak a week
meow meow meooooow meow me meoooow me meeow), mew me meeeow m meow m meow

after--glass falling and weather stormy, on a rock bound coast--and, just
meeow--meeow meeeoow mew meeeeow meeoow, me m meow meeow meeow--mew, meow

as the ship was beginning to stagger like a drunk man, and the boats were
me mew meow mew meeeoooow me meeeoow meow m meoow mew, mew mew meeow meow

got ready for lowering, the engineer--brave little man--dived below water
mew meoow mew meooooow, mew meooooow--meoow meeeow mew--meeow meeow meeow

in the engine-room, and found it was no leak at all, but the great
me mew meooow-meow, mew meoow me mew me meow me mew, mew mew meoow

sea-cock left open by a drunken stoker; how we ran on shore on that wild
mew-meow meow meow me m meeeoow meeoow; mew me mew me meoow me meow meow

reef outside Johanna, and lay there for a whole week with our keel
meow meeooow Meeooow, mew mew meeow mew m meeow meow meow mew meow

floating in splinters around us; how, finally we got off, and steamed to
meooooow me meeeeooow meeoow me; mew, meeeeow me mew mew, mew meoooow me

Bombay almost a wreck; the pumps going continually, and barely keeping her
Meooow meeeow m meoow; mew meeow meeow meeeeooooow, mew meeoow meeeoow mew

afloat; how we arrived safely through it all; how a liberal government
meeoow; mew me meeooow meeoow meoooow me mew; mew m meeeeow meeeeoooow

paid rather more for repairing her, than would have bought a new one, and
meow meeeow meow mew meeeeeeow mew, meow meeow meow meooow m mew mew, mew

how she was sold three years after for an old song,--is it not all written
mew mew mew meow meeow meoow meeow mew me mew meow,--me me mew mew meeooow

in the log of Her Majesty’s saucy gunboat, _Tickler_.
me mew mew me Mew Meeooow’m meoow meeooow, mEeooooow.













[Illustration: “Zula,” the property of Mrs. Captain Barrett-Lennard. This
[Meeeeeeeeoow: “Meow,” mew meeeeeow me Mew. Meeooow Meeeoow-Meoooow. Meow

cat was brought from Abyssinia at the conclusion of the war, fed on the
mew mew meeooow meow Meeeeeeow me mew meeeooooow me mew mew, mew me mew

way home on raw beef, and was long very wild. She is now very fond of her
mew meow me mew meow, mew mew meow meow meow. Mew me mew meow meow me mew

mistress, but has a great many eccentricities which other cats have not,
meooooow, mew mew m meeow meow meeeooooooooow meoow meoow meow meow mew,

and is altogether a wonderful specimen of cat-kind.]
mew me meeeeeeeow m meoooooow meeeeoow me mew-meow.]













ADDENDA.
MEEEEOW.







I deem it fair both to myself and to the reader, to supplement my own
M meow me meow meow me meeoow mew me mew meooow, me meeeeeeoow me mew

evidence on the “Curiosities of Cat Life,” by giving the names and
meooooow me mew “Meeooooooow me Mew Meow,” me meeeow mew meeow mew

addresses of my authorities for those of my anecdotes, which may seem to
meeeeeeow me me meeeeeeeeow mew meeow me me meeooooow, meeow mew meow me

run contrary to the generally received opinions, concerning cats; at the
mew meeoooow me mew meeeeeeow meooooow meeeeoow, meeeeeeoow meow; me mew

same time thanking those ladies and gentlemen, who have taken so much
meow meow meeoooow meoow meeeow mew meeeeooow, mew meow meeow me meow

interest in the progress of this work, and expressed themselves willing to
meeeeeow me mew meeeooow me meow meow, mew meeeeeoow meeeeeeoow meeooow me

vouch for the truth of the incidents herein related by me. I have tried
meoow mew mew meeow me mew meeooooow meeeow meeeeow me me. M meow meeow

to make the anecdotes as readable as possible, and as humorous, as I know
me meow mew meeeoooow me meooooow me meeoooow, mew me meeeeoow, me M meow

many people think “cats” a dry subject; _but in no single instance have
meow meooow meeow “meow” m mew meeeeow; meow me me meooow meeeeeow meow

the interests of truth been disregarded_. My anecdotes are what might be
mew meeooooow me meoow meow meeeeeeoooow. Me meoooooow mew meow meoow me

called sample anecdotes, as I have many hundreds more of the same sort, my
meooow meooow meeeeeeow, me M meow meow meeeeoow meow me mew meow meow, me

object being to describe _pussy as she really is_, and thus to gain favour
meeoow meoow me meeeeeow meeeow me mew meooow mew, mew meow me meow meeeow

for an animal hitherto understood only by the few, and abused by the many.
mew me meooow meeeeeow meeeeeeoow meow me mew mew, mew meeeow me mew meow.

And, nothing would give me greater pain, than the reader to have an idea,
Mew, meoooow meeow meow me meeeeow meow, meow mew meeeow me meow me meow,

that my cats are exceptional cats; for, I distinctly aver, _that no cat
meow me meow mew meeeeooooow meow; mew, M meeoooooow meow, meeow me mew

mentioned in this book, has either done or suffered anything, which any
meeeoooow me meow meow, mew meeeow meow me meeeeoow meeoooow, meeow mew

other cat in the kingdom cannot do or suffer_.
meoow mew me mew meoooow meeoow me me meeooow.







INDEX OF NAMES AND ADDRESSES.
MEEOW ME MEOOW MEW MEEEOOOOW.




Anderson, Alex., Mr., New Fowlis, Crieff, N.B.
Meeeooow, Meow., Me., Mew Meeoow, Meooow, M.M.




Anderson, Jane, Miss, Old Meldrum, Aberdeenshire.
Meeoooow, Meow, Meow, Mew Meeeoow, Meeeeooooooow.




Bird, Miss, Snowdon Place, Stirling.
Meow, Meow, Meeeeow Meeow, Meeoooow.




Bonnar, T., Mr., Largoward, St. Andrews.
Meooow, M., Me., Meeeeeeow, Me. Meoooow.




Budge, W., Mr., 113, Montrose Street, Brechin.
Meeow, M., Me., mew, Meooooow Meeoow, Meeeoow.




Burns, D., Mr., 19, Murray Road East, Finsbury Park, London.
Meoow, M., Me., me, Meeoow Meow Meow, Meooooow Meow, Meooow.




Catto, W. D., Ed. of “People’s Journal,” Dundee.
Meoow, M. M., Me. me “Meeeow’m Meeooow,” Meeoow.




Church, W., Mrs., 5, Regent’s Park, Heavitree, Essex.
Meeeow, M., Mew., m, Meeoow’m Meow, Meeooooow, Meeow.




Cockerell, Misses, 41, Warwick Street, London.
Meeeeeeow, Meeoow, me, Meoooow Meeoow, Meeoow.




Crerar, Peter, Mr., Buchan’s Buildings, Burrell Street, Crief, N.B.
Meooow, Meeow, Me., Meeeow’m Meeooooow, Meeeoow Meooow, Meeow, M.M.




Cresswell, Frances, Miss, Early Wood, Bagshot, Surrey.
Meoooooow, Meoooow, Meow, Meeow Meow, Meeeoow, Meeoow.




Catto, Edward, Mr., 17, Mortimer Street, Dundee.
Meeow, Meeeow, Me., me, Meooooow Meeeow, Meeoow.




Davis, Mr., Aberdare, South Wales.
Meoow, Me., Meeeooow, Meeow Meoow.




Donald, John, Mr., 54, Plantation Street, Glasgow.
Meeeow, Meow, Me., me, Meeeeoooow Meeeow, Meeeoow.




Dorwood, David, Mr., Kinettles, Forfarshire.
Meeeeow, Meoow, Me., Meeeeeeow, Meeeeooooow.




Douglas, T. S., Mr., Park Street, Aberdeen.
Meoooow, M. M., Me., Meow Meeeow, Meeoooow.




Durno, Isa, Miss, Floors, Auchterless, N.B.
Meeow, Mew, Meow, Meeoow, Meeeoooooow, M.M.




Ford, R., Mr., 32, Princess Street, Dundee.
Meow, M., Me., me, Meeeeoow Meeeow, Meeeow.




Forshall, F. M., Miss, 14, Park Place, Clarence Gate, London.
Meeeeeow, M. M., Meow, me, Meow Meoow, Meeoooow Meow, Meeoow.




Gerrard, Samuel, Mr., New Aberdour, Fraserburgh, N.B.
Meeooow, Meeoow, Me., Mew Meooooow, Meeeoooooow, M.M.




Gillespie, James, Mr., Ardean, by Dollar, N.B.
Meeeeooow, Meeow, Me., Meooow, me Meeoow, M.M.




Geekie, G., Mr., 18, Mitchell Square, Blairgowrie, Perth.
Meooow, M., Me., me, Meooooow Meeeow, Meeeeeeooow, Meoow.




Gordon, Miss, Camden House, Aberdeen.
Meeeow, Meow, Meooow Meeow, Meooooow.




Gordon, Mrs., 41, Grieve Street, Dunfermline, N.B.
Meeeow, Mew., me, Meeeow Meeoow, Meeeeeeooow, M.M.




Grant, Archibald, Mr., New Dupplis, Elgin.
Meoow, Meeeeeoow, Me., Mew Meeeeow, Meeow.




Gray, T., Mr., Park Street, Galashiels.
Meow, M., Me., Meow Meeoow, Meeeooooow.




Grey, P., Mr., Durris, by Aberdeen.
Meow, M., Me., Meeeow, me Meeoooow.




Hutcheson, James, Mr., 22, Temple Lane, Dundee.
Meeeeeeow, Meeow, Me., me, Meeoow Meow, Meeoow.




Howie, David, Mr., Inverleithen, Peebleshire.
Meoow, Meoow, Me., Meeoooooooow, Meeeeeeeeow.




Leitch, David, 31, Bonnygate, Cupar Fife, N.B.
Meeeow, Meoow, me, Meeeoooow, Meoow Meow, M.M.




Lynch, Miss, Arduthie, Stonehaven, N.B.
Meeow, Meow, Meeeeoow, Meeoooooow, M.M.




Mackie, A., Mr., 12, Lower James Street, Sheerness.
Meeoow, M., Me., me, Meoow Meoow Meeeow, Meeooooow.




Macdonald, Mrs., Post Office, Lasswade, N.B.
Meeeeeoow, Mew., Meow Meeoow, Meeeooow, M.M.




McCorkle, R., Miss, Newhouse, Stirling.
MeEoooow, M., Meow, Meeeooow, Meeeooow.




McLean, John, Mr., Orbliston, Fochabers, N.B.
MeEoow, Meow, Me., Meeeeooow, Meeeoooow, M.M.




McKenzie, Mrs., Dornoch, N.B.
MeEeeoow, Mew., Meoooow, M.M.




McPherson, Colin, Mr., Viewbank Terrace, Dundee.
MeEooooow, Meoow, Me., Meeeooow Meeooow, Meooow.




Miller, Francis, Mr., 17, Sutherland Street, Helensburgh.
Meeoow, Meeeoow, Me., me, Meeeeeeoow Meooow, Meeeeeeooow.




Millar, D., Mr., The Cross, Linlithgow.
Meeeow, M., Me., Mew Meeow, Meeeeeeoow.




Mitchell, J., Mr., Matthew’s Land, Strathmartine, by Dundee.
Meeeooow, M., Me., Meeeoow’m Meow, Meeeeeeeeeoow, me Meeoow.




Morseley, C. A., Miss, 8, Ludeley Place, Brighton.
Meeeeoow, M. M., Meow, m, Meoooow Meeow, Meeeeeow.




Mowat, M., Mr., Berriedale, Caithness.
Meeow, M., Me., Meeeeeeoow, Meeeeooow.




Oliver, A., Miss, Bovinger Rectory, Ongar, Essex.
Meooow, M., Meow, Meooooow Meeooow, Meoow, Meoow.




Paterson, J., Mr., Carnbo, Kinross.
Meeeeoow, M., Me., Meeoow, Meeeoow.




Pettigrew, Miss, Post Office, Auchterarder, N.B.
Meeeoooow, Meow, Meow Meeeow, Meeeeeeeooow, M.M.




Pratt, W., Mr., 143, Norwich Road, Ipswich.
Meeow, M., Me., mew, Meeooow Meow, Meeeoow.




Robinson, W. J., Ballycassidy, _viâ_ Omagh, Ireland.
Meeeeeow, M. M., Meeoooooooow, meoow Meeow, Meeeeow.




Rebecca, Mr., Rubislaw, near Aberdeen.
Meeooow, Me., Meeeeeow, meow Meeoooow.




Sibbald, Peter, Mr., 5, Brougham Place, Hawick.
Meeooow, Meoow, Me., m, Meeoooow Meeow, Meooow.




Smith, J., Mr., 79, Princess Street, Dundee.
Meoow, M., Me., me, Meeeeeow Meeeow, Meeoow.




Stoddart, D., Mr., 92, Rose Street, Edinburgh.
Meeoooow, M., Me., me, Meow Meooow, Meeeoooow.




Suter, Miss, Balne Vicarage, Selby.
Meeow, Meow, Meoow Meooooow, Meeow.




Swanson, J., Mr., Durness Street, Thurso.
Meeooow, M., Me., Meeeeow Meooow, Meooow.




Taylor, W., Mr., Merchant, Cuminstone, by Turriff N.B.
Meooow, M., Me., Meeoooow, Meeeooooow, me Meoooow M.M.




Tyndal, T. G., Mr., Schoolmaster, Portleithen, Hillside, Aberdeen.
Meeeow, M. M., Me., Meeeeeeoooow, Meoooooooow, Meooooow, Meeoooow.




Wallace, Mrs., E. U. Manse, Coupar Angus.
Meeooow, Mew., M. M. Meeow, Meeoow Meoow.




Watson, J., Mr., High Street, Alva, Stirlingshire.
Meeeow, M., Me., Meow Meeeow, Meow, Meeeeeeeeeoow.




Whiteley, Mr., Baggholme Road, Lincoln.
Meeeooow, Me., Meeeeeoow Meow, Meeooow.




Whyte, J., Mr., Dallfied Terrace, Dundee.
Meoow, M., Me., Meooooow Meeooow, Meeoow.




Wilson, G., Mrs., Cults, near Aberdeen.
Meooow, M., Mew., Meoow, meow Meeeeoow.







_Note A._--I have to acknowledge with thanks, the kind letter on the
mEeow M.m--M meow me meoooooooow meow meeeow, mew meow meooow me mew

points and classification of cats, sent me by J. Jenner Weir, F.L.S.
meeoow mew meeeooooooooow me meow, meow me me M. Meeoow Meow, M.M.M.




_Note B._--Fishermen, returning in their boats on clear summer nights,
mEoow M.m--Meeeeooow, meeeeooow me meeow meoow me meoow meeoow meooow,

often see a bright light on this mountain’s side. I should think the
meeow mew m meeoow meeow me meow meeeeoow’m meow. M meeoow meeow mew

phenomenon due to the reflection of star-rays, from a piece of rock
meeeeeooow mew me mew meeeeeeeow me meow-meow, meow m meeow me meow

crystal; but the superstitious Skye men have a different opinion, and aver
meeeoow; mew mew meeeeeeeoooow Meow mew meow m meeooooow meeooow, mew meow

that this light marks the entrance to the cave of the buried treasure. I
meow meow meeow meoow mew meeoooow me mew meow me mew meeeow meeeooow. M

hope they may find it. I strongly suspect, however, that the malignant
meow meow mew meow me. M meeeeoow meeeoow, meeeeow, meow mew meeeeeoow

fairy is nothing more nor less than a wild cat.
meeow me meeeeow meow mew meow meow m meow mew.




_Note C._--Anecdote of the wild cat. Mr. Sibbald.
mEoow M.m--Meeeeoow me mew meow mew. Me. Meeeoow.




_Note D._--Anecdote related by Mrs. McDonald.
mEeow M.m--Meooooow meeeeow me Mew. MeOoooow.




_Note E._--Anecdote of “Tucker.” Mr. Swanson.
mEeow M.m--Meooooow me “Meeeow.” Me. Meoooow.




_Note F._--Anecdote of cat hunting on three legs. Mr. John McLean.
mEoow M.m--Meeeooow me mew meeooow me meeow meow. Me. Meow MeEoow.




_Note G._--Anecdote by Miss Oliver.
mEeow M.m--Meeeeeow me Meow Meeoow.




_Note H._--Related by Mrs. Church.
mEoow M.m--Meeeeow me Mew. Meeoow.




_Note I._--Related by Mrs. McDonald.
mEoow M.m--Meeeoow me Mew. MeOoooow.




_Note K._--The cat belonging to Lieutenant Hawthorne. This cat was first
mEeow M.m--Mew mew meeeeeeow me Meooooooow Meeeeeeow. Meow mew mew meoow

prize for weight at the Crystal Palace.
meeow mew meeoow me mew Meeooow Meooow.




_Note L._--Anecdote related by Mrs. D. H. Gordon.
mEoow M.m--Meeeeeow meeeeow me Mew. M. M. Meeeow.




_Note M._--Anecdote by Miss Oliver.
mEeow M.m--Meeeeoow me Meow Meooow.




_Note N._--For private reasons the address of voucher for the truth of
mEoow M.m--Mew meeeoow meeeoow mew meoooow me meeeoow mew mew meeow me

this anecdote cannot be published, but can be sent privately, if wished.
meow meeeeoow meeeow me meeeeooow, mew mew me meow meeeeeeow, me meeoow.




_Note O._--Related by Mr. Murray, Stretford Road, Hulme, Manchester.
mEeow M.m--Meeeeow me Me. Meeoow, Meeeoooow Meow, Meeow, Meeeeeooow.




_Note P._--This sport (?) is also common in the Highlands of Scotland.
mEeow M.m--Meow meeow (?) me meow meeeow me mew Meeeeooow me Meeeooow.




_Note Q._--This happened at the mill of Maidencraig, near Aberdeen. Mr. W.
mEeow M.m--Meow meeeeeow me mew meow me Meeeeeeeoow, meow Meeeeoow. Me. M.

Young, was then miller.
Meeow, mew meow meooow.




_Note R._--Related by Mrs. G. Wilson.
mEeow M.m--Meoooow me Mew. M. Meooow.




_Note S._--This queer little doggie may be seen any evening at the Crown
mEeow M.m--Meow meeow meeoow meeoow mew me meow mew meeooow me mew Meoow

Hotel, Gosport. A small white bull-terrier.
Meeow, Meoooow. M meoow meoow meow-meeooow.




_Note T._--Related by Mr. Rebecca.
mEoow M.m--Meeeoow me Me. Meeooow.




_Note U._--Anecdote by Mr. Millar.
mEeow M.m--Meeeooow me Me. Meeoow.




_Note V._--Anecdote by Mrs. Church.
mEeow M.m--Meeoooow me Mew. Meooow.




_Note W._--Related by Miss Oliver.
mEeow M.m--Meeeeow me Meow Meeeow.




_Note X._--Related by Mr. Swanson.
mEeow M.m--Meeooow me Me. Meeooow.







THE END.
MEW MEW.













FOOTNOTES:
MEEEOOOOW:




[1] The aversion of the poorer classes in Scotland to receive parochial
[m] Mew meeoooow me mew meooow meeeeow me Meooooow me meoooow meeeeeoow

relief, or to go into “the house,” is well known. No man having once done
meeoow, me me me meow “mew meeow,” me meow meoow. Me mew meooow meow meow

so can--or indeed would be permitted to--hold up his head among his
me mew--me meooow meeow me meeeeeeow me--meow me mew meow meeow mew

neighbours again.
meeeeoooow meoow.




[2] One only child.
[m] Mew meow meoow.




[3] Gowk--a cuckoo, an animal of little sense.
[m] Meow--m meooow, me meooow me meooow meoow.




[4] Tit--pap.
[m] Mew--mew.




[5] Dripping = kitchen-fee.
[m] Meeeeeow = meeeeow-mew.




[6] _Glossary to above._ 1, _Thrum_, a bit of thread. 2, _hum_, sing low
[m] mEoooooow me meeow.m m, mEeooow, m mew me meeoow. m, meoow, meow mew

without words. 3, _grat_, wept. 4, _eenies_, little eyes. 5, _preenies_,
meeeoow meoow. m, meeoow, meow. m, meooooow, meooow meow. m, meeeeeeoow,

small pins. 6, _syne_, then. 7, _glum_, melancholy. 8, _heed_, head. 9,
meeow meow. m, meeeow, meow. m, meooow, meooooooow. m, meeeow, meow. m,

_bleed_, blood. 10, _beanies_, small bones. 11, _Num!_ Nice! 12, _greet_,
meoooow, meeow. me, meoooooow, meeow meeow. me, mEow!m Meow! me, meeeeow,

weep. 13, _lum_, chimney-pot.
meow. me, meeow, meeeoow-mew.




[7] Women selling Scotch confectionery.
[m] Meoow meeooow Meeoow meeeeeeeeooow.




[8] Note. This chapter “is rote sarkastic.”
[m] Meow. Meow meeooow “me meow meeooooow.”




[9] See, page 100, vol. I.
[m] Mew, meow mew, mew. M.




[10] _Pelage_ in _cat_ology = feather in _dog_ology.
[me] mEeeeeow me meeeeoooow = meeeeow me meeeeoooow.




[11] Honey, suet, marlingspikes, and pens.--_Jack’s translation._
[me] Meeow, meow, meeooooooooow, mew meow.--mEoow’m meoooooooow.m




[12] In my next edition I shall insert a bird-stuffer’s name here. Space
[me] Me me meow meoooow M meeow meeeow m meow-meoooow’m meow meow. Meeow

to be let to the highest bidder.
me me mew me mew meeeeow meeeow.




[13] 11 o’clock.
[me] me m’meeow.




[14] Throughout the story, commander, captain, and skipper mean one and
[me] Meeeeeeoow mew meeow, meeooooow, meeeoow, mew meeooow meow mew mew

the same person. In the Royal Navy, a senior lieutenant generally commands
mew meow meeeow. Me mew Meeow Meow, m meooow meeeooooow meoooooow meeeeoow

a gunboat, and is called captain for courtesy, and skipper behind his
m meoooow, mew me meeoow meeooow mew meeeeeow, mew meoooow meeeow mew

back.
meow.




[15] My! a Scottish interjection only translatable by the Greek Ιω!
[me] Me! m Meeeeoow meeeeeeeeoow meow meeeeeeeeoow me mew Meoow Me!

(_Io!_)
(mEw!m)




[16] Half-past five p.m.
[me] Meow-meow meow m.m.













DEAN’S ONE SHILLING GUIDE BOOKS.
MEOW’M MEW MEEOOOOW MEEOW MEEOW.




CANARIES AND MULES: Their Varieties and Points. How to Breed, Rear, and
MEEOOOOW MEW MEEOW: Meeow Meeeoooow mew Meeeow. Mew me Meeow, Meow, mew

Keep them in Health, with Remedies for the various Diseases to which they
Meow meow me Meooow, meow Meeeooow mew mew meeooow Meeeeoow me meoow meow

are subject. Sixpence. By J. SABIN. Or with Pictures coloured of the
mew meeeeow. Meeeooow. Me M. MEOOW. Me meow Meeeeeow meeeeeow me mew

fifteen varieties of Canaries, and Addenda on their breeding. One
meeeeow meoooooow me Meooooow, mew Meeeoow me meoow meeeooow. Mew

Shilling.
Meeeeoow.




THE AQUARIA, and its contents of Gold and other Fish, Insects, and Plants;
MEW MEOOOOW, mew mew meeeeoow me Meow mew meeow Meow, Meoooow, mew Meeoow;

with instructions how to manage. By J. BISHOP, A. H. LLOYD, F. S. LEACH,
meow meeeeeooooow mew me meooow. Me M. MEEEOW, M. M. MEEOW, M. M. MEOOW,

and T. HALL. Thirty-five Illustrations. Price One Shilling.
mew M. MEOW. Meeoow-meow Meeeeeeeeooow. Meeow Mew Meeeeoow.




POULTRY: How Best to Breed, for Profit, Pleasure, Exhibition, and Prize;
MEEEEOW: Mew Meow me Meeow, mew Meeoow, Meeeeeow, Meeeeeooow, mew Meoow;

with a description of the several Breeds, and the Points of excellence as
meow m meeeeooooow me mew meeeoow Meooow, mew mew Meeoow me meooooooow me

laid down by Prize Winners and experienced Judges. Edited by R. FULTON.
meow meow me Meoow Meeooow mew meeooooooow Meeeow. Meeoow me M. MEEOOW.

With chapters on Diseases and Methods of Cure, Proper Construction of
Meow meeeooow me Meeeeeow mew Meeeoow me Meow, Meeeow Meeoooooooow me

Houses, &c. Illustrated. Price One Shilling.
Meeeow, &m. Meeeoooooow. Meoow Mew Meeeeeow.




THE BIRD-KEEPER’S GUIDE AND BRITISH AVIARY; or, Song Birds: How to Rear
MEW MEOW-MEEEOW’M MEEOW MEW MEOOOOW MEOOOW; me, Meow Meeow: Mew me Meow

and Keep them in Health, and how to Preserve them when dead. New Edition,
mew Meow meow me Meeeow, mew mew me Meeeooow meow meow meow. Mew Meoooow,

containing Addenda on the various Breeds of Canaries. By THOMAS ANDREWS.
meeeeoooow Meeeoow me mew meeeoow Meeoow me Meeeeoow. Me MEEEOW MEOOOOW.

Frontispiece in Colours. Price One Shilling, Sewed; or, bound in Cloth,
Meeeeeeeeeow me Meeeeow. Meoow Mew Meeoooow, Meoow; me, meoow me Meeow,

with Twenty Plates, showing the male and female bird of the several
meow Meooow Meeeow, meeooow mew meow mew meeeow meow me mew meeeeow

varieties, with their eggs, price Two Shillings.
meeeeeeow, meow meeow meow, meeow Mew Meeeeooow.




PARROTS, How to Treat and Feed. By MARRIOTT. Including Cockatoos, Macaws,
MEEEOOW, Mew me Meeow mew Meow. Me MEEOOOOW. Meeeeooow Meeooooow, Meeeow,

Parrokeets, Lories, &c. Coloured Frontispiece. Price One Shilling. Or,
Meeeeeeeow, Meeeow, &m. Meooooow Meeoooooooow. Meoow Mew Meeeooow. Me,

with Twenty-eight Steel Plate Portraits of the best varieties, cloth, Two
meow Meooow-meeow Meoow Meeow Meeooooow me mew meow meeeeeoow, meeow, Mew

Shillings and Sixpence.
Meeeeeoow mew Meooooow.




HORSES: THE GENTLEMAN’S GUIDE to their Keep, Choice, and Management. By
MEOOOW: MEW MEEEEEOOW’M MEEOW me meoow Meow, Meooow, mew Meeeeeeeow. Me

JAMES MILLS, M.V.C.S. Eleventh Edition. With suggestions relative to the
MEOOW MEEOW, M.M.M.M. Meeoooow Meoooow. Meow meeeeeeeeow meooooow me mew

treatment of the Diseases of Horses. Rarey’s Instructions for the Taming
meeeeeoow me mew Meeoooow me Meeeow. Meoow’m Meeeooooooow mew mew Meooow

of Horses and Art of Horsemanship. Price One Shilling; or, Cloth bound,
me Meeoow mew Mew me Meooooooooow. Meoow Mew Meeeeeow; me, Meeow meeow,

One Shilling and Sixpence.
Mew Meeeeoow mew Meooooow.




FAMILY DOUBLE-CHEQUE WASHING BOOK, complete double list for Twenty-six
MEEEOW MEEEOW-MEOOOW MEEOOOW MEOW, meeoooow meeoow meow mew Meeoow-mew

weeks. Price One Shilling.
meoow. Meeow Mew Meooooow.




HOUSEKEEPER’S FAMILY ACCOUNT BOOK, for Fifty-two Weeks, and for every time
MEEEEEEEEOW’M MEEOOW MEEOOOW MEOW, mew Meeow-mew Meoow, mew mew meoow meow

in the year. Price One Shilling.
me mew meow. Meeow Mew Meeoooow.




THE FRUIT AND FLOWER GARDEN. By JOHN GREIG. A monthly Diary of all that is
MEW MEOOW MEW MEOOOW MEEOOW. Me MEOW MEOOW. M meeeeow Meeow me mew meow me

necessary to be done; the Management of the Green-house, &c. Price One
meeeeeoow me me meow; mew Meeeeoooow me mew Meeow-meoow, &m. Meoow Mew

Shilling.
Meeeeoow.




LONDON LETTER WRITER; A Model Book of Original Correspondence. By C. A.
MEEOOW MEEOOW MEOOOW; M Meoow Meow me Meeeeoow Meeeeeeoooooow. Me M. M.

SMITH. Price One Shilling.
MEOOW. Meoow Mew Meeeooow.







  LONDON: DEAN & SON.
  MEEOOW: MEOW & MEW.

  ST. DUNSTAN’S BUILDINGS, 160A, FLEET ST., AND 18 & 19, GOUGH SQUARE, E.C.
  ME. MEOOOOW’M MEEOOOOOW, MEOW, MEEOW ME., MEW me & me, MEEOW MEEOOW, M.M.







DOGS:
MEOW:




_Their Points, Whims, Instincts, and Peculiarities._
mEooow Meeoow, Meoow, Meeooooow, mew Meeeeeeeoooow.m




EDITED BY HENRY WEBB.
MEOOOW ME MEEOW MEOW.




EXTRACTS FROM OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
MEEEEEOW MEOW MEEOOOOW ME MEW MEEOW.




“‘DOGS; THEIR POINTS, WHIMS, AND INSTINCTS,’ by Henry Webb (_Dean & Son_)
“‘MEOW; MEOOW MEEEOW, MEEOW, MEW MEEEEOOOW,’ me Meeow Meow (mEeow & Meow)

is even more minute than ‘Stonehenge’ in the precise enumeration and
me meow meow meooow meow ‘Meooooooow’ me mew meeeoow meeeeeoooow mew

estimate of the points which rule the decision of the judges at the prize
meeeooow me mew meeeow meeow meow mew meeoooow me mew meeeow me mew meeow

exhibitions.”--_The Graphic, Nov. 23rd, 1872._
meeeeooooow.”--mEow Meeeoow, Mew. meow, meow.m




“The Editor has succeeded in doing what he professed to do, and that is
“Mew Meooow mew meeeeooow me meoow meow me meoooooow me me, mew meow me

more than could be said about the work of many editors.... Having said
meow meow meoow me meow meeow mew meow me meow meeooow.... Meeoow meow

that Mr. Webb has carried out his programme to the letter, what remains
meow Me. Meow mew meeeeow mew mew meeeoooow me mew meeeow, meow meeooow

for us here is the recommendation that admirers of the canine race should
mew me meow me mew meeeeeeeeeeeow meow meeeeoow me mew meeeow meow meeeow

purchase the book. They will not regret the trifling investment.”--_The
meeeooow mew meow. Meow meow mew meooow mew meeoooow meeoooooow.”--mEow

Sportsman, Nov. 23rd, 1872._
Meeooooow, Mew. meow, meow.m




“Most of the papers are written by men who have favourites of the breed
“Meow me mew meeoow mew meeeeow me mew mew meow meeeooooow me mew meoow

which they describe.”--_The Globe, Oct. 30th, 1872._
meeow meow meeeooow.”--mEow Meoow, Mew. meow, meow.m




“... Tells a good deal about the points, whims, instincts, and
“... Meeow m meow meow meoow mew meeeow, meoow, meoooooow, mew

peculiarities of dogs, and many things worth knowing may be learnt from
meeeeooooooow me meow, mew meow meeoow meoow meeooow mew me meooow meow

its perusal....”--_The Army and Navy Gazette, Nov. 2nd, 1872._
mew meoooow....”--mEow Meow mew Meow Meeeeow, Mew. mew, meow.m




“The photographs of nearly a hundred dogs, which embellishes Mr. Webb’s
“Mew meeeoooooow me meeeow m meeeoow meow, meoow meeeoooooow Me. Meow’m

book, are by no means badly done.... The book is written in a gossiping
meow, mew me me meeow meeow meow.... Mew meow me meoooow me m meeeeeoow

style, and is certain to be immensely popular, the information having been
meeow, mew me meeooow me me meeooooow meeeeow, mew meeeeooooow meooow meow

furnished by some of the highest authorities in the kingdom.”--_Sporting
meeeeooow me meow me mew meoooow meeeeeeeeow me mew meoooow.”--mEeooooow

Times, Nov. 28th, 1872._
Meeow, Mew. meow, meow.m




“The points of good breeds are tersely stated, and beyond doubt, the book
“Mew meeoow me meow meeeow mew meeooow meooow, mew meeeow meeow, mew meow

will be useful to dog-fanciers; and who does not come more or less under
meow me meeoow me mew-meeeooow; mew mew meow mew meow meow me meow meeow

that designation?”--_The Standard, Oct. 28th, 1872._
meow meeeeooooow?”--mEow Meeeooow, Mew. meow, meow.m




“Mr. Henry Webb has compiled a book about dogs which will be found
“Me. Meoow Meow mew meeeeoow m meow meeow meow meeow meow me meoow

thoroughly interesting and instructive to owners and exhibitors of these
meeoooooow meeeeooooow mew meeeeooooow me meooow mew meeeeeooow me meoow

faithful animals.”--_Lloyd’s Newspaper, Nov. 17th, 1872._
meeeooow meoooow.”--mEeeow’m Meoooooow, Mew. meow, meow.m




EXTRACTS FROM BREEDERS’ LETTERS.
MEOOOOOW MEOW MEEOOOOW’ MEOOOOW.




  _Scalford, Mowbray._
  mEeeeeoow, Meoooow.m




“The chapters on Bull Dogs, Bloodhounds, &c., &c., are excellent and
“Mew meeoooow me Meow Meow, Meeeeeeooow, &m., &m., mew meeooooow mew

trustworthy. W. B. WYNNE.”
meeeoooooow. M. M. MEOOW.”




  _Arley Rectory, Coventry._
  mEeoow Meeeoow, Meooooow.m




“I think the book very interesting, and shall certainly recommend it to
“M meeow mew meow meow meeeeeeooow, mew meoow meoooooow meeeeeoow me me

all my friends. A. DE CASTRO.”
mew me meeeeow. M. ME MEOOOW.”




  _Hooper’s Bridge Mills._
  mEeooow’m Meeeow Meeow.m




“There is much valuable information on the breed of dogs and their points,
“Meeow me meow meooooow meeeeeoooow me mew meeow me meow mew meeow meeoow,

which every sportsman should know; I am indeed very much pleased with the
meeow meoow meeooooow meeeow meow; M me meeoow meow meow meeeeow meow mew

work. R. PASCOE.”
meow. M. MEOOOW.”




  _Beverley, Yorkshire._
  mEeooooow, Meeeoooow.m




“The work is really a valuable addition to the literature we possess on
“Mew meow me meeeow m meooooow meeeeeow me mew meeeeeooow me meeeoow me

the subject. W. W. BOULTON.”
mew meoooow. M. M. MEEEEOW.”




  _Hales Court, Canterbury._
  mEeoow Meeow, Meeeooooow.m




“I am much pleased with the book. MARY HALES.”
“M me meow meeooow meow mew meow. MEOW MEOOW.”




  _Blackwood House, N.B._
  mEeeeoooow Meoow, M.M.m




“Mr. Webb’s book is very interesting. I, however, do not agree with him
“Me. Meow’m meow me meow meeeeeeooow. M, meeeeow, me mew meeow meow mew

that the head of the Dandie Dinmont bitch is smaller than that of the dog.
meow mew meow me mew Meooow Meeooow meoow me meeeeow meow meow me mew mew.

E. BRADSHAW SMITH.”
M. MEEEEEOW MEEOW.”



















End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Cats, by W. Gordon Stables
Mew me mew Meeeoow Meoooooow MEoow me Meow, me M. Meeoow Meoooow




*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CATS ***
*** MEW ME MEOW MEEOOOW MEEOOOOOW MEOOW MEOW ***




***** This file should be named 43429-0.txt or 43429-0.zip *****
***** Meow meow meooow me meeow meeow-m.mew me meoow-m.mew *****

This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
Meow mew mew meeeeeeeow meeow me meeeoow meoooow meow me meoow me:

        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/3/4/2/43429/
        meow://mew.meeooooow.mew/m/m/m/m/meeow/




Produced by The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
Meeeeoow me Mew Meeoow Meeeeeeeoow Meeeeeeeooow Meow me

http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
meow://mew.meow.mew (Meow meow mew meeoooow meow meooow

generously made available by The Internet Archive.)
meeeooooow meow meoooooow me Mew Meooooow Meeeeow.)







Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
Meeeoow meeeeeow meow meeeoow mew meeeeoow mew--mew mew meeeeeow

will be renamed.
meow me meeeeow.




Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
Meeeooow mew meoow meow meeeow meeoow meeow meeeeeow meoow meow me

one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
mew meow m Meeeow Meeoow meeeeeoow me meoow meoow, me mew Meeeeeeoow

(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
(mew mew!) mew meow mew meeeeoooow me me mew Meeoow Meooow meeeeow

permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
meeeeeeeow mew meeooow meeeow meeeoooow meeeeeeow.  Meeooow meoow,

set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
mew meeow me mew Meeeeow Meeow me Mew meow me meow meeooow, meeow me

copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
meeooow mew meeeeeeeeeow Meeeoow Meeeeooow-me meeoooooow meoow me

protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
meoooow mew MEEOOOW MEEEEOOOW-me meoooow mew meoooooow.  Meeeeow

Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
Meeeeeoow me m meeoooooow meeeeeoow, mew mew mew me meow me mew

charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
meeoow mew mew mEooow, meeeow mew meeeoow meeeeeow meeeeoooow.  Me mew

do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
me mew meeeow meooooow mew meeeow me meow mEoow, meeooooow meow mew

rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
meoow me meow meow.  Mew mew mew meow mEeow mew meooow mew meeooow

such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
meow me meeeooow me meeeeeooow meeow, meeooow, meeeeeeoooow mew

research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
meeeooow.  Meow mew me meeeooow mew meoooow mew meeow meow--mew mew me

practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
meeeeeeeoow MEEOOOOW meow meeoow meeoow mEeoow.  Meeeeeeoooooow me

subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
meeeeow me mew meoooooow meeooow, meeeeeeeow meeoooooow

redistribution.
meeoooooooooow.










*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
*** MEEOW: MEOW MEOOOOW ***




THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
MEW MEOW MEEOOOW MEEEEEEOW MEEOOOW

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
MEEEOW MEOW MEOW MEOOOW MEW MEEEEEOOOW ME MEW MEOW MEOW




To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
Me meeooow mew Meeooow Meeeeeoow-me meoooow me meeeeeeow mew meow

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
meeeooooooow me meeeooooow meeow, me meoow me meeeooooooow meow meow

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
(me mew meoow meow meeeeeeoow me mew mew meow mew meeeow "Meoooow

Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Meeeeeoow"), mew meeow me meeoow meow mew mew meeow me mew Meow Meeeoow

Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
Meeeeeoow-me Meeooow meoooooow meow meow meow me meeeow me

  www.gutenberg.org/license.
  mew.meeeeooow.mew/meoooow.







Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
Meeooow m.  Meeeoow Meoow me Mew mew Meeeeeeeeoooow Meoooow Meeeeeoow-me

electronic works
meeeooooow meeow




1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
m.M.  Me meeooow me meoow mew meow me meow Meeooow Meeooooow-me

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
meeoooooow meow, mew meeeeoow meow mew meow meow, meooooooow, meoow me

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
mew meeoow mew mew meoow me meow meeooow mew meeeeeeoooow meeeooow

(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
(meoooooow/meoooooow) meeeeooow.  Me mew me mew meoow me meeow me mew

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
mew meoow me meow meeeoooow, mew meow meoow meoow mew meooow me meoooow

all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
mew meooow me Meeeoow Meeeeeeow-me meeeeeooow meoow me meow meeeeoooow.

If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Me mew meow m mew mew meoooooow m meow me me meooow me m Meeeeow

Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Meeeeooow-me meeeeoooow meow mew mew me mew meeow me me meeow me mew

terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
meeow me meow meeeeeoow, mew mew meooow m meeoow meow mew meooow me

entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
meooow me meow mew meow mew mew me mew meoow me meeeeooow m.M.m.




1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
m.M.  "Meeeoow Meeeeeoow" me m meeeeeeoow meeeeeeow.  Me mew meow me

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
meow me me meeeeeooow me mew mew meow me meeeeeeoow meow me meeoow mew

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
meeow me me meoow me mew meoow me meow meeooooow.  Meeow mew m mew

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
meeoow meow mew mew me meow meow Meeooow Meeeeeoow-me meeeeoooow meoow

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
meow meeeeow meoooooow meow mew meow meeow me meow meeeeeeow.  Mew

paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
meeeeeeow m.M meoow.  Meeow mew m mew me meooow mew mew me meow Meeeoow

Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Meeeeooow-me meeeeeooow meoow me mew meeoow mew meeow me meow meoooooow

and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
mew meow meooooow meow meeoow meeeow me Meeeeow Meeeeeeow-me meeoooooow

works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
meeow.  Mew meeooooow m.M meoow.




1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
m.M.  Mew Meeooow Meeeeooow Meooooow Meeeeow Meeoooooow ("mew Meeeeeooow"

or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
me MEEOW), meow m meeeoooooow meeeeeoow me mew meeeeeeeow me Meeeeow

Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Meeeeeeow-me meeeeeeeow meeow.  Meeeow mew mew meeoooooow meeow me mew

collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
meeeeeeoow mew me mew meooow meeoow me mew Meeeow Meooow.  Me me

individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
meeoooooow meow me me mew meeeow meooow me mew Meooow Meeeow mew mew mew

located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
meeeeow me mew Meeeow Meooow, me me mew meeow m meeow me meoooow mew meow

copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
meoooow, meeeeoooooow, meeeeeeoow, meeeeeeeow me meeoooow meeeeeooow

works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
meeow meoow me mew meow me meow me mew meooooooow me Meeooow Meeeeooow

are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
mew meoooow.  Me meeeow, me meow meow mew meow meeooow mew Meeooow

Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
Meeeeeoow-me meeeeow me meeeeeoow meow meeeow me meeoooooow meoow me

freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
meooow meeeeow Meeooow Meeeeooow-me meoow me meeeooooow meow mew meoow me

this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
meow meeeeeeow mew meeeoow mew Meoooow Meeeeeeow-me meow meeeeoooow meow

the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
mew meow.  Mew mew meeeow meeoow meow mew meoow me meow meeeeeeow me

keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
meeooow meow meow me mew meow meeoow meow mew meeoooow meow Meeeeow

Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
Meeooooow-me Meeeeow meow mew meeow me meoooow meeeow meow meeeow.




1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
m.M.  Mew meeeeooow meow me mew meoow meeow mew mew meeeeow meow meooow

what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
meow mew mew me meow meow meow.  Meeooooow meow me meow meeeoooow mew me

a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
m meeeeeow meoow me meooow.  Me mew mew meeooow mew Meooow Meeoow, meoow

the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
mew meow me meow meeeoow me meeoooow me mew meoow me meow meeeeooow

before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
meooow meeeoooooow, meeeeow, meeoooooow, meeeeeeeow, meeeooooooow me

creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
meooooow meeeeeeeow meeow meoow me meow meow me mew meeow Meeeeow

Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
Meeooooow-me meow.  Mew Meeeeoooow meoow me meeeeeeeeeeooow meeeooooow

the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
mew meeeeooow meooow me mew meow me mew meeeeow meoooow mew Meeeow

States.
Meeoow.




1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
m.M.  Meeeow mew meow meeeeow mew meeeeeeoow me Meoooow Meeeoooow:




1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
m.M.m.  Mew meeeeeoow meeeeeow, meow meooow meoow me, me meoow meeeeeoow

access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
meooow me, mew meow Meeooow Meeeeooow-me Meeeeow meow meeoow meeeoooooow

whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
meeeeeow mew meow me m Meeooow Meeooooow-me meow (mew meow me meeow mew

phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
meooow "Meoooow Meeeeeeow" meeooow, me meow meoow mew meeoow "Meeeeow

Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
Meoooooow" me meeeeeeoow) me meooooow, meeeeeoow, meeooooow, meeoow,

copied or distributed:
meooow me meeooooooow:




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Meow mEoow me mew mew mew me meeeow meeeeeow me me meow mew meow

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
meeeow me meeeeeeeeeow meeeeoooow.  Mew mew meow me, meow me meow me

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
me-mew me meoow mew meeow me mew Meoooow Meoooooow Meeeeow meeeooow

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
meow meow mEeow me meooow me mew.meoooooow.mew




1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
m.M.m.  Me me meeeeeeoow Meeooow Meeeeeeow-me meeeeeooow meow me meeooow

from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
meow mew meeeow meooow (meow mew meeeoow m meeoow meeeeoooow meow me me

posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
meeeow meow meeoooooow me mew meeooooow meeoow), mew meow mew me meeoow

and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
mew meeeoooooow me meeeow me mew Meooow Meooow meeeoow meeoow mew meow

or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
me meeeeow.  Me mew mew meeeeeeoooooow me meeeeeoow meeeow me m meow

with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
meow mew meeeow "Meeeoow Meeeeeoow" meeeeeooow meow me meeooooow me mew

work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
meow, mew meow meeeow meeeow meow mew meeeeeeeooow me meeoooooow m.M.m

through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
meoooow m.M.m me meeoow meeeeeeeow mew mew mew me mew meow mew mew

Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
Meeeoow Meoooooow-me meoooooow me mew meoow me meeeeeeoow m.M.m me

1.E.9.
m.M.m.




1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
m.M.m.  Me me meeeeeeoow Meeeoow Meeeeooow-me meeeeeeeow meow me meeoow

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
meow mew meooooooow me mew meeeeeoow meeeow, meow mew mew meeeeeeeooow

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
meow meeoow meow meow meeeooooow m.M.m meoooow m.M.m mew mew meeeooooow

terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
meoow meeeeow me mew meeeeooow meooow.  Meooooooow meoow meow me meeeow

to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
me mew Meeooow Meeeeooow-me Meeeoow mew mew meeow meooow meow mew

permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
meeoooooow me mew meeeeooow meeeow meeow me mew meeeeooow me meow meow.




1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
m.M.m.  Me mew meeoow me meeoow me meooow mew meow Meeeeow Meoooooow-me

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
Meeeoow meoow meow meow meow, me mew meeow meeeeeeoow m meow me meow

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
meow me mew meoow meow meooooooow meow Meoooow Meeeoooow-me.




1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
m.M.m.  Me mew meow, meeeeow, meeeeow, meeeeeeoow me meooooooooow meow

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
meeeeeeeow meow, me mew meow me meow meeeeeeeow meow, meoooow

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
meeeeooooow meeeeeeeow mew meooooow mew meeow me meeooooow m.M.m meow

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
meeoow meoow me meeeeeoow meooow me mew meow meeow me mew Meeooow

Gutenberg-tm License.
Meeeeooow-me Meeeeow.




1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
m.M.m.  Mew mew meeeeow me mew meooooooow meow meow me mew meeoow,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
meeeooooow, meeeow me, meeeooooooooow me meeeeeeeoow meow, meeeoooow mew

word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
meow meeeooooow me meeeeeeow meow.  Meoooow, me mew meoooow meeoow me me

distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
meeoooooow meeoow me m Meeeeow Meoooooow-me meow me m meeoow meeow meow

"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
"Meoow Meeeeow MEOOW" me meoow meooow meow me mew meeeeoow meeeeow

posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
meooow me mew meeeeoow Meeeeow Meeeoooow-me mew meow (mew.meeeeooow.mew),

you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
mew meow, me me meeeeeooow meow, mew me meeeeow me mew meow, meoooow m

copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
meow, m meeow me meeooooow m meow, me m meeow me meoooooow m meow meow

request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
meeeeow, me mew meow me mew meeeeeow "Meeow Meeeoow MEEOW" me meoow

form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
meow.  Mew meoooooow meooow meow meeooow mew meow Meeeeow Meeooooow-me

License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
Meeeoow me meeeeooow me meeooooow m.M.m.




1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
m.M.m.  Me mew meeoow m mew mew meeoow me, meoooow, meeeooooow,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
meeoooooow, meeeoow me meeeeeeeooow mew Meoooow Meoooooow-me meoow

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
meeoow mew meooow meow meeeeeeow m.M.m me m.M.m.




1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
m.M.m.  Mew mew meeeow m meeeeeeoow mew mew meooow me me meeeeeeow

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
meeoow me me meeeeeeeooow Meeeeow Meeeoooow-me meeeeeeoow meeow meeeeeow

that
meow




- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
- Mew mew m meeeoow mew me me% me mew meoow meeooow mew meooow meow

     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     mew mew me Meeooow Meeeeeoow-me meeow meeeeoooow meoow mew meeeow

     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     mew meeooow mew me meeooooow meow meeeeeeoow meoow.  Mew mew me

     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     meow me mew meeow me mew Meoooow Meeeeeoow-me meeeeeoow, mew me

     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     mew meeeow me meooow meeeeooow meoow meow meeeeooow me mew

     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     Meeooow Meeeoooow Meeeeoow Meeeeow Meeoooooow.  Meeeoow meooooow

     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     meow me meow meeeow me meow meeeeooow meow meow me meoow mew

     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     meeeoow (me mew meoooow meeeeoow me meeeoow) meow meeeeoow mew

     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     meoooow.  Meeeeow meooooow meeoow me meeeoow meooow me meow mew

     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     meow me mew Meoooow Meeeeeoow Meooooow Meeooow Meooooooow me mew

     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     meeooow meeeeeeow me Meoooow m, "Meeeeeeooow meoow meeeeeeow me

     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
     mew Meoooow Meeeoooow Meeeeoow Meeooow Meeeooooow."




- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
- Mew meoooow m meow meeoow me mew meeow meow me m meow mew meeeeoow

     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     mew me meeeoow (me me m-meow) meooow me meow me meeeoow meow m/me

     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     meow mew meoow me mew meoow me mew meow Meeooow Meoooooow-me

     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     Meoooow.  Mew meow meeooow meow m meow me meooow me

     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     meeooow mew meooow me mew meeow meeeeeeow me m meeoooow meeeow

     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     mew meeeeeeooow mew mew me mew mew meooow me meoow meeoow me

     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     Meoooow Meoooooow-me meeow.




- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
- Mew meoooow, me meeeeoooow meow meeeeeoow m.M.m, m meow meeeow me mew

     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     meoow meow mew m meow me m meeeoooooow meow, me m meooow me mew

     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     meooooooow meow me meeeeeooow mew meeeeeow me mew meeoow me meow

     of receipt of the work.
     me meeeeow me mew meow.




- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
- Mew meeeow meow mew meeow meoow me meow meeeeooow mew meow

     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     meooooooooow me Meoooow Meoooooow-me meeow.




1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
m.M.m.  Me mew meow me meeoow m mew me meeeeeeeow m Meeeoow Meeeeeeow-me

electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
meeeeeeoow meow me meeow me meeow me meeeoooow meoow meow mew mew

forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
meeow me meow meeeeeeow, mew meow meooow meeeeeeoow me meeeoow meow

both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
meow mew Meeeoow Meeeeooow Meeeooow Meeooow Meeeeeeoow mew Meoooow

Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Meow, mew meoow me mew Meoooow Meeeeooow-me meeeeooow.  Meeooow mew

Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
Meeeeeooow me mew meoow me Meoooow m meoow.




1.F.
m.M.




1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
m.M.m.  Meeeoow Meeooooow meeoooooow mew meeeeeeow meeeow meeeeeeoooow

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
meooow me meeeooow, me meoooooow meeeooow me, meeeeeooow mew meeeeeeow

public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
meeeow meeeow meeow me meeeeoow mew Meeeoow Meeeoooow-me

collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
meeeeeeoow.  Meoooow meeow meeeeow, Meeooow Meeeeeeow-me meeoooooow

works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
meoow, mew mew meeeow me meoow meow mew me meeeow, mew meeooow

"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
"Meoooow," meow me, mew mew meeooow me, meeoooooow, meeeeoooow me

corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
meoooow meow, meeeeeeeeeeow meooow, m meeeeeeow me meeow meeeeoooooow

property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
meooooow meeeooooooow, m meeeeeeow me meoooow meow me meeow meeoow, m

computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
meooooow meeow, me meeeeeow meoow meow meeoow me meeoow me meow me

your equipment.
meow meeooooow.




1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
m.M.m.  MEEOOOW MEOOOOOW, MEEEEEEEOW ME MEOOOOW - Meeoow mew mew "Meeow

of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
me Meeeeeeeoow me Meooow" meeeeeoow me meeooooow m.M.m, mew Meeeoow

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Meoooooow Meeoooow Meeeeow Meeoooooow, mew meoow me mew Meoooow

Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Meeeoooow-me meeeoooow, mew mew meeow meoow meeeeeeeeeow m Meeooow

Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Meeeeeoow-me meeeeeooow meow meeow meow meeeeeoow, meeeeeow mew

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
meeeeeoow me mew mew meeeeow, meeow mew meeeeeow, meoooooow meoow

fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
meow.  MEW MEOOW MEOW MEW MEOW ME MEOOOOOW MEW MEOOOOOOOW, MEEEOW

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
MEEEEEOOW, MEEEOW ME MEOOOOOW ME MEEEOW ME MEEEEOOW MEOOOW MEEOW

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
MEEEEOOW ME MEEEEOOOW m.M.m.  MEW MEEOW MEOW MEW MEOOOOOOOW, MEW

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
MEEEEEOOW MEEOW, MEW MEW MEEEEEOOOOW MEOOW MEOW MEEEEOOOW MEOW MEW ME

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
MEOOOW ME MEW MEW MEEEOW, MEEEOW, MEEOOOOW, MEEEEEOOOOOOW, MEOOOOOW ME

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
MEEEEEEEOW MEEEOOW MEOW ME MEW MEOW MEEOOW ME MEW MEEEEEEEOOW ME MEOW

DAMAGE.
MEEOOW.




1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
m.M.m.  MEEOOOW MEOOW ME MEEEOOOOOOW ME MEEOOW - Me mew meeeeeow m

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
meeeow me meow meeeeeeeow meow meooow me meow me meoooooow me, mew mew

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
meoooow m meooow me mew meeow (me mew) mew meow mew me me meoooow m

written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
meeooow meeeoooooow me mew meeoow mew meooooow mew meow meow.  Me mew

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
meeeeeow mew meow me m meeeooow meeeow, mew meow meeeow mew meeoow meow

your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
meow meeeoow meeeeeoooow.  Mew meeeow me meooow meow meooooow mew meow

the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
mew meoooooow meow mew meeow me meeooow m meeeoooooow meow me meow me m

refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
meeoow.  Me mew meeeooow mew meow meeeeeeeooooow, mew meeoow me meooow

providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
meeeoooow me me mew mew meeoow me meow mew m meeoow meeooooooow me

receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
meeeeow mew meow meeeeeeeeoooow me meow me m meooow.  Me mew meooow meow

is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
me meow meoooooow, mew mew meeeow m meeoow me meeooow meeeeow meeeeow

opportunities to fix the problem.
meeooooooooow me mew mew meeooow.




1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
m.M.m.  Meeoow mew mew meeooow meeow me meeeeooooow me meooow mew meeow

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
me meeeoooow m.M.m, meow meow me meeeooow me mew 'ME-ME', MEOW ME MEEOW

WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
MEOOOOOOOW ME MEW MEOW, MEOOOOW ME MEOOOOW, MEEOOOOOW MEW MEW MEEEEOW ME

WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
MEEOOOOOOW ME MEOOOOOOOOOOOOW ME MEOOOOW MEW MEW MEOOOOW.




1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
m.M.m.  Meow meeeow me mew meeow meeeeeeeoow me meeeeow meoooow

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
meeeeeeeow me mew meeeeeoow me meeeeeooow me meeeoow meoow me meeooow.

If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
Me mew meeeeeooow me meooooooow mew meeow me meow meeooooow meeeooow mew

law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
mew me mew meeow meeeeeooow me meow meeeeeoow, mew meeooooow meoow me

interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
meeeeeeeeow me meow mew meeooow meeeeeooow me meeeeoooow meeeoooow me

the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
mew meeeooooow meoow mew.  Mew meeeeeooow me meeeeeeoooooooow me mew

provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
meeeoooow me meow meeeeeeow meeow mew meow mew meoooooow meeeeeooow.




1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
m.M.m.  MEEOOOOOW - Mew meeow me meeooooow mew meow mew Meeeeeeeow, mew

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
meeooooow meoow, mew meoow me meeeeeow me mew Meeoooooow, meooow

providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
meoooooow meooow me Meoooow Meoooooow-me meeeeoooow meeow me meeeeoooow

with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
meow meow meeooooow, mew mew meeeeeooow meeeooooow meow mew meeeooooow,

promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
meeeeeoow mew meeeeoooooow me Meeeoow Meeeoooow-me meeeeeooow meoow,

harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
meeeeoow meow mew meeeoooow, meeow mew meeoooow, meeeeeeow meeow meow,

that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
meow meoow meeeeoow me meeeeeeeow meow mew me mew meeeeeoow meoow mew me

or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
me meoow me meoow: (m) meeeeoooooow me meow me mew Meeeeow Meoooooow-me

work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
meow, (m) meeoooooow, meeeooooooow, me meeeoooow me meeeeeoow me mew

Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
Meoooow Meeeeeoow-me meow, mew (m) mew Meeeow mew meeow.







Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Meeooow  m.  Meeeeeoooow meoow mew Meeooow me Meeeeow Meeeeooow-me




Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Meeooow Meeeoooow-me me meeeeoooow meow mew meow meooooooooow me

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
meeeeeeeow meoow me meeeoow meooooow me mew meeeow meeeeow me meeeeeeow

including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
meoooooow meeoooow, mew, meooow-meow mew mew meeeeeeow.  Me meeeow

because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
meeeeow me mew meeooow me meeeeoow me meeeeeooow mew meeeeeeow meow

people in all walks of life.
meeoow me mew meeow me meow.




Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
Meeoooooow mew meoooooow meoooow me meeeoow meeeeeeoow meow mew

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
meeeeeeeow meow meow mew meeoooow me meeeeeow Meeeeow Meeeeeoow-me'm

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
meeow mew meooooow meow mew Meoooow Meeeeeoow-me meooooooow meow

remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
meooow meeoow meeeeooow mew meeeeeeeoow me meow.  Me meow, mew Meeooow

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
Meeeeeoow Meeeeoow Meeeoow Meeeeeeeow mew meeooow me meeooow m meeeow

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
mew meoooooow meooow mew Meeeoow Meeeeooow-me mew meeeow meeeeeeooow.

To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
Me meoow meow meoow mew Meoooow Meoooooow Meeeooow Meeeeow Meooooooow

and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
mew mew meow meeeeow mew meeooooow mew meow, mew Meooooow m mew m

and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org
mew mew Meeoooooow meeeeooooow meow me mew.meeeeeoow.mew







Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Meeooow m.  Meoooooooow meeow mew Meeeeow Meeeeooow Meeoooow Meeooow

Foundation
Meeeeeeeow




The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
Mew Meeeeow Meeeeeoow Meeeeeow Meeooow Meeeeeeeow me m mew meeoow

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
mew(m)(m) meeooooooow meeeoooooow meoooooow meeow mew meow me mew

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
meoow me Meeeeeeooow mew meeeeow mew meeeow meeoow me mew Meeeeoow

Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
Meeooow Meeeoow.  Mew Meeeeoooow'm MEW me meeeeow mew meeeeeooooooow

number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
meeoow me me-meeeeow.  Meeeeeoooooow me mew Meoooow Meeeeeeow

Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
Meeeeeow Meeeoow Meeoooooow mew mew meeeeeeoow me mew meow meeeow

permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
meeeoooow me M.M. meeooow meow mew meow meoow'm meow.




The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Mew Meeeooooow'm meeooooow meooow me meeeeow me meow Meeow Me. M.

Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
Meeeeeeow, ME, meoow., mew mew meeoooooow mew meeooooow mew meeeoooow

throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
meeeeeeoow meeeeeow meoooooow.  Mew meeoooow meooow me meoooow me mew

North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
Meoow meow Meow, Meow Meow Meow, ME meoow, (mew) mew-meow.  Meeow

contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
meeeoow meeow mew me me meow meoooow meeeeooooow mew me meeow me mew

Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact
Meeoooooow'm mew meow mew meeeooow meow me mew.meoooooow.mew/meoooow




For additional contact information:
Mew meeeeeeeow meoooow meoooooooow:

     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Me. Meeeeow M. Meeow

     Chief Executive and Director
     Meoow Meeeeeeow mew Meeeooow

     gbnewby@pglaf.org
     meoooow@meeow.mew




Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Meeeeow m.  Meeooooooow meeow Meeooooow me mew Meeeoow Meeeoooow

Literary Archive Foundation
Meooooow Meeooow Meeeeoooow




Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
Meoooow Meoooooow-me meeeoow meow mew meeeow meeeoow meoooow meow

spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
meeoow meeoow meeooow mew meeeeooow me meeow mew mew meeeeow me

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
meeoooooow mew meooow me meeeow meeeow mew meeoooow meeow meow mew me

freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
meooow meeeeeoooow me meeeoow meooooow meow meeeeeeoow me mew meeoow

array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
meoow me meoooooow meeeeooow meeeooow meoooooow.  Meow meeow meoooooow

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
($m me $m,mew) mew meeeeeooooow meeeeeeow me meeeeeeeoow mew meeoow

status with the IRS.
meooow meow mew MEW.




The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
Mew Meeeeeeoow me meeeoooow me meeeeeoow meow mew meow meeeeeooow

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
meeooooow mew meeeooooow meoooooow me mew me meooow me mew Meeoow

States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
Meeeow.  Meeoooooow meeeeeeeeoow mew mew meoooow mew me meeow m

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
meeeeeeeeeow meeoow, meow meeeeeeow mew meow meow me meow mew meow me

with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
meow meeow meeoooooooow.  Me me mew meoooow meeeeooow me meeeeeoow

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
meeow me meow mew meeoooow meeeoow meeeeeooooow me meeoooooow.  Me

SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
MEOW MEEOOOOOW me meeeeeeow mew meooow me meeeeeeoow mew mew

particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate
meeeeeeeow meoow meeow mew.meeeoooow.mew/meooow




While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
Meeow me meooow mew me mew meoooow meeooooooooow meow meeoow meoow me

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
meow mew mew mew meeoooooooow meeeeeeeeoow, me meow me me meeeeeoooow

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
meeooow meeooooow meeeeeoooow meeeoooow meow meooow me meow meooow mew

approach us with offers to donate.
meeeeoow me meow meeoow me meooow.




International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
Meoooooooooow meeooooow mew meeoooooow meooooow, mew me meeeow meow

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
mew meeeeeeeow meeeeeeoow mew meoooooow me meeeoooow meeeooow meow

outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
meeooow mew Meeeow Meeoow.  M.M. meow meoow meeow mew meeow meoow.




Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
Meeeow meoow mew Meoooow Meeeeeoow Mew meoow mew meoooow meooooow

methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
meeeoow mew meeeeooow.  Meeeoooow mew meeeeeow me m meeeow me meeow

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
meow meoooooow meeoow, meooow meeoooow mew meeeow meow meeeeeoow.

To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate
Me meeeow, meooow meeow:  mew.meeooooow.mew/meeoow







Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
Meeooow m.  Meeooow Meeeoooooow Meeow Meoooow Meeeeooow-me meooooooow

works.
meoow.




Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Meoooooow Meoooow M. Meow mew mew meeeeeooow me mew Meeeeow Meoooooow-me

concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
meeeoow me m meeeeow me meooooooow meeow meow meeow me meeoow meeeow

with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
meow meooow.  Mew meeow meeow, me meeeooow mew meoooooooow Meoooow

Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Meeeoooow-me mEeoow meow meow m meeow meeeoow me meeeeeeow meeooow.




Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
Meoooow Meeeoooow-me mEeoow mew meoow meeooow meow meeeeow meoooow

editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
meeeeoow, mew me meoow mew meoooooow me Meooow Meeoow me mew M.M.

unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
meooow m meeooooow meeoow me meeeeoow.  Meow, me me mew meeeeeeeeow

keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
meow mEeeow me meeoooooow meow mew meooooooow meeow meeooow.




Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:
Meow meeoow meoow me mew Mew meow meeow mew mew meow ME meeoow meooooow:




     www.gutenberg.org
     mew.meeeeooow.mew




This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
Meow Mew meow meooooow meoooooooow meoow Meeeeow Meoooooow-me,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
meeeeeeow mew me meow meeooooow me mew Meeeeow Meeeeeoow Meeoooow

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
Meeooow Meeeeoooow, mew me meow meeeeow mew mew mEeoow, mew mew me

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
meeeeeeow me mew meeow meeoooooow me meow meeow mew mEooow.



