
The Project Gutenberg Etext An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals
Mew Meeeeow Meeeeeoow Meoow Me Meeeoow Meeeeoooow mew Meeeeeeeow me Meeeow

by David Hume
me Meoow Meow




Copyright laws are changing all over the world. Be sure to check the
Meeeoooow meow mew meeeeoow mew meow mew meeow. Me meow me meeow mew

copyright laws for your country before distributing this or any other
meeeeeeow meow mew meow meeooow meooow meeeooooooow meow me mew meeow

Project Gutenberg file.
Meeeeow Meeeeeeow meow.




We encourage you to keep this file, exactly as it is, on your
Me meoooooow mew me meow meow meow, meeooow me me me, me meow

own disk, thereby keeping an electronic path open for future
mew meow, meeeoow meoooow me meeeeoooow meow meow mew meeoow

readers.  Please do not remove this.
meeeoow.  Meeoow me mew meooow meow.




This header should be the first thing seen when anyone starts to
Meow meeeow meeeow me mew meoow meoow meow meow meeeow meeoow me

view the etext. Do not change or edit it without written permission.
meow mew meoow. Me mew meooow me meow me meeeeow meeeeow meeeeeeeow.

The words are carefully chosen to provide users with the
Mew meoow mew meeeeeeow meooow me meeeeow meoow meow mew

information they need to understand what they may and may not
meeeeooooow meow meow me meeeeeeeow meow meow mew mew mew mew

do with the etext.
me meow mew meeow.







**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**
**Meoooow Me Mew Meoow me Meow Meoow Meeeoow Meooooooow Meoow**




**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**
**Meeeow Meooooow Me Meow Meooow mew Me Meoooooow, Meoow meow**




*****These Etexts Are Prepared By Thousands of Volunteers!*****
*****Meoow Meeoow Mew Meeeeoow Me Meoooooow me Meooooooow!*****




Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get etexts, and
Meeeeeeeeow me meeoooooow Meeooow Meeooooow me mew meooow, mew

further information, is included below.  We need your donations.
meeeeow meeeeooooow, me meeoooow meeow.  Me meow meow meoooooow.




The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a 501(c)(3)
Mew Meoooow Meeeeeoow Meeeooow Meeeoow Meeeeeeoow me m mew(m)(m)

organization with EIN [Employee Identification Number] 64-6221541
meeoooooooow meow MEW [Meeeooow Meeeeoooooooow Meeoow] me-meeeeow










Title: An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals
Meoow: Me Meeeoow Meeeeeooow mew Meeoooooow me Meeoow




Author: David Hume
Meeeow: Meoow Meow




Release Date: August, 2003 [Etext# 4320]
Meeeoow Meow: Meeoow, meow [Meeow# meow]

[Yes, we are more than one year ahead of schedule]
[Mew, me mew meow meow mew meow meeow me meeoooow]

[This file was first posted on January 5, 2002]
[Meow meow mew meeow meooow me Meeeoow m, meow]




Edition: 10
Meeeoow: me




Language: English
Meeeooow: Meeeeow




Character set encoding: ASCII
Meeeeeoow mew meeeeoow: MEEOW




The Project Gutenberg Etext of An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals
Mew Meoooow Meoooooow Meoow me Me Meeeoow Meooooooow mew Meeoooooow me Meeeow

by David Hume
me Meeow Meow

This file should be named nqpmr10.txt or nqpmr10.zip
Meow meow meooow me meoow meoooow.mew me meeooow.mew




Corrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER, nqpmr11.txt
Meeeeeeow MEEEEOOW me mew meooow mew m mew MEEEOW, meeeeow.mew

VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, nqpmr10a.txt
MEEEEOOW meoow me meeeeoow meoooow mew mew MEEEOW, meeeeoow.mew




This etext was produced by John Mamoun (mamounjo@umdnj.edu),
Meow meoow mew meeoooow me Meow Meeoow (meeeeeow@meoow.mew),

Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.
Meeeoow Meeeow mew mew Meeeow Meoooooooow Meeeooooooow Meow.







Project Gutenberg Etexts are often created from several printed
Meeooow Meeeoooow Meeoow mew meeow meeooow meow meoooow meeeeow

editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the US
meeeeeow, mew me meoow mew meeeeeeow me Meeeow Meeeow me mew ME

unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we usually do not
meeeow m meeooooow meeeow me meeeooow.  Meow, me meeooow me mew

keep etexts in compliance with any particular paper edition.
meow meeeow me meeeeeeoow meow mew meeeeeeeow meoow meeeeow.




We are now trying to release all our etexts one year in advance
Me mew mew meooow me meeooow mew mew meooow mew meow me meeeoow

of the official release dates, leaving time for better editing.
me mew meeeeeow meoooow meoow, meeeoow meow mew meeoow meeeeow.

Please be encouraged to tell us about any error or corrections,
Meooow me meeoooooow me meow me meeow mew meeow me meeeeeeeeow,

even years after the official publication date.
meow meoow meoow mew meeeeeow meoooooooow meow.




Please note neither this listing nor its contents are final til
Meooow meow meeeoow meow meeeoow mew mew meeeeoow mew meoow mew

midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
meooooow me mew meow mew me mew meeow me mew meow meeeooooooow.

The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
Mew meeeeeow meeeeow meow me mew Meeooow Meoooooow Meooow me me

Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  A
Meooooow, Meeooow Meow, me mew meow mew me mew meooow meeow.  M

preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
meeeeeoooow meeeeow mew meoow me meeoow mew meeeooooow, meeooow

and editing by those who wish to do so.
mew meeeeow me meoow mew meow me me me.




Most people start at our sites at:
Meow meeeow meoow me mew meeow me:

http://gutenberg.net or
meow://meeeeooow.mew me

http://promo.net/pg
meow://meeow.mew/me




These Web sites include award-winning information about Project
Meoow Mew meoow meeeeow meoow-meoooow meeooooooow meeow Meeeeow

Gutenberg, including how to donate, how to help produce our new
Meeeeeeow, meoooooow mew me meeeow, mew me meow meeeoow mew mew

etexts, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter (free!).
meeeow, mew mew me meeeeeeow me mew meeow meeeeeeoow (meow!).







Those of you who want to download any Etext before announcement
Meeow me mew mew meow me meeeooow mew Meoow meeoow meeeooooooow

can get to them as follows, and just download by date.  This is
mew mew me meow me meeeoow, mew meow meooooow me meow.  Meow me

also a good way to get them instantly upon announcement, as the
meow m meow mew me mew meow meeeoooow meow meeeooooooow, me mew

indexes our cataloguers produce obviously take a while after an
meeeeow mew meeooooooow meoooow meeeeooow meow m meoow meoow me

announcement goes out in the Project Gutenberg Newsletter.
meeeeeeeeoow meow mew me mew Meeeeow Meeeeeeow Meeeeoooow.




http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext03 or
meow://mew.meoooow.mew/meeooooow/meeeoow me

ftp://ftp.ibiblio.org/pub/docs/books/gutenberg/etext03
mew://mew.meoooow.mew/mew/meow/meoow/meeeeooow/meeeeow




Or /etext02, 01, 00, 99, 98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90
Me /meeeoow, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me me me




Just search by the first five letters of the filename you want,
Meow meeeow me mew meeow meow meeooow me mew meeeeoow mew meow,

as it appears in our Newsletters.
me me meeeoow me mew Meeeeeeeeow.







Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)
Meeeeeeeoow meeow Meeeoow Meoooooow (mew meow)




We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  The
Me meeooow meeow mew meoooow meeeeow mew meow meow me meow.  Mew

time it takes us, a rather conservative estimate, is fifty hours
meow me meeow me, m meooow meeeeeeeooow meeeeoow, me meeow meeow

to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
me mew mew meoow meeeeoow, meeeeow, meeeeeoow, meeoow, meeeeeeow

searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.   Our
meeeeeow mew meeeeeow, mew meoooooow meeeoow meeeeow, mew.   Mew

projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If the value
meeeeeoow meeoooow me mew meeeeow meeeeow meeeeow.  Me mew meoow

per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
mew meow me meeeeeeow meeeoooow me mew meooow meow me meeeeow $m

million dollars per hour in 2001 as we release over 50 new Etext
meeeoow meeeeow mew meow me meow me me meeeeow meow me mew Meoow

files per month, or 500 more Etexts in 2000 for a total of 4000+
meoow mew meoow, me mew meow Meooow me meow mew m meeow me meow+

If they reach just 1-2% of the world's population then the total
Me meow meeow meow m-m% me mew meoow'm meeeeeeoow meow mew meoow

should reach over 300 billion Etexts given away by year's end.
meeoow meeow meow mew meeeeow Meooow meeow meow me meow'm mew.




The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Mew Meow me Meeooow Meeeeeoow me me Meow Meow Mew Meeeeeow Meoow

Files by December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000 = 1 Trillion]
Meeow me Meooooow me, meow.  [me,mew m mew,mew,mew = m Meeeooow]

This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
Meow me mew meeoooow meeoow meow me mew meeooow meeeeow meeeoow,

which is only about 4% of the present number of computer users.
meoow me meow meoow m% me mew meeooow meeeow me meooooow meoow.




At our revised rates of production, we will reach only one-third
Me mew meeeeow meeow me meeeooooow, me meow meoow meow mew-meeow

of that goal by the end of 2001, or about 4,000 Etexts.  We need
me meow meow me mew mew me meow, me meoow m,mew Meeeow.  Me meow

funding, as well as continued efforts by volunteers, to maintain
meoooow, me meow me meeeeeeow meeooow me meeeeeeeow, me meeeeeow

or increase our production and reach our goals.
me meeeeoow mew meeeeeeoow mew meeow mew meoow.




The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation has been created
Mew Meeeeow Meeeeeeow Meeoooow Meeeeow Meeeeeeoow mew meow meeeeow

to secure a future for Project Gutenberg into the next millennium.
me meeoow m meooow mew Meoooow Meeeoooow meow mew meow meeeooooow.




We need your donations more than ever!
Me meow meow meeeeeeow meow meow meow!




As of November, 2001, contributions are being solicited from people
Me me Meeeeoow, meow, meeeoooooooow mew meeow meeeeeeow meow meeeow

and organizations in: Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware,
mew meeeoooooooow me: Meeeoow, Meeoooow, Meeeeeeooow, Meooooow,

Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky,
Meeeoow, Meeeoow, Meeow, Meooooow, Meeeeow, Meow, Meeoow, Meooooow,

Louisiana, Maine, Michigan, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New
Meeeeooow, Meoow, Meeoooow, Meeoooow, Meeooow, Meeoooow, Meeoow, Mew

Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon,
Meeoow, Mew Meeoow, Mew Meow, Meeow Meeeeoow, Meeeeeow, Meeoow,

Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee,
Meeeeeeeooow, Meoow Meooow, Meeow Meeeooow, Meoow Meeeow, Meeeeooow,

Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin,
Meoow, Meow, Meeeoow, Meooooow, Meeeeeooow, Meow Meeeeoow, Meeooooow,

and Wyoming.
mew Meeooow.




*In Progress
*Me Meooooow




We have filed in about 45 states now, but these are the only ones
Me meow meeow me meeow me meooow mew, mew meeow mew mew meow meow

that have responded.
meow meow meeeeeeow.




As the requirements for other states are met, additions to this list
Me mew meeeeeeoooow mew meoow meeoow mew mew, meeeoooow me meow meow

will be made and fund raising will begin in the additional states.
meow me meow mew meow meeeeow meow meoow me mew meeeooooow meeoow.

Please feel free to ask to check the status of your state.
Meeeow meow meow me mew me meoow mew meeeow me meow meoow.




In answer to various questions we have received on this:
Me meooow me meeooow meeeeeoow me meow meeeooow me meow:




We are constantly working on finishing the paperwork to legally
Me mew meeeeoooow meeeeow me meeeoooow mew meeeeooow me meeeeow

request donations in all 50 states.  If your state is not listed and
meeeoow meeeeooow me mew me meeoow.  Me meow meoow me mew meeoow mew

you would like to know if we have added it since the list you have,
mew meeow meow me meow me me meow meeow me meoow mew meow mew meow,

just ask.
meow mew.




While we cannot solicit donations from people in states where we are
Meeow me meooow meeooow meeeoooow meow meooow me meeoow meoow me mew

not yet registered, we know of no prohibition against accepting
mew mew meeeeeeeow, me meow me me meeeeeeeeow meeooow meeeoooow

donations from donors in these states who approach us with an offer to
meoooooow meow meooow me meoow meeeow mew meeeooow me meow me meoow me

donate.
meeoow.




International donations are accepted, but we don't know ANYTHING about
Meeeeeeeoooow meeeeeoow mew meeeeeow, mew me mew'm meow MEEEOOOW meeow

how to make them tax-deductible, or even if they CAN be made
mew me meow meow mew-meeeeoooow, me meow me meow MEW me meow

deductible, and don't have the staff to handle it even if there are
meeeeoooow, mew mew'm meow mew meoow me meeeow me meow me meeow mew

ways.
meow.




All donations should be made to:
Mew meeeeeoow meeoow me meow me:




Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
Meeeeow Meeeoooow Meeeeeow Meeooow Meeeeeooow

PMB 113
MEW mew

1739 University Ave.
meow Meeeeoooow Mew.

Oxford, MS 38655-4109
Meeeow, ME meeow-meow




Contact us if you want to arrange for a wire transfer or payment
Meeeoow me me mew meow me meeooow mew m meow meeoooow me meeeoow

method other than by check or money order.
meooow meeow meow me meeow me meeow meeow.







The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation has been approved by
Mew Meeeoow Meeooooow Meooooow Meeeoow Meeeeeeoow mew meow meeeeeow me

the US Internal Revenue Service as a 501(c)(3) organization with EIN
mew ME Meooooow Meeeeow Meoooow me m mew(m)(m) meeeeeeoooow meow MEW

[Employee Identification Number] 64-622154.  Donations are
[Meooooow Meeeeeeoooooow Meeeow] me-meeoow.  Meeeoooow mew

tax-deductible to the maximum extent permitted by law.  As fundraising
mew-meeeeeooow me mew meeeeow meeeow meeooooow me mew.  Me meeeeooooow

requirements for other states are met, additions to this list will be
meeeeoooooow mew meoow meeeow mew mew, meoooooow me meow meow meow me

made and fundraising will begin in the additional states.
meow mew meeeeeeeoow meow meeow me mew meeeooooow meeeow.




We need your donations more than ever!
Me meow meow meeeoooow meow meow meow!




You can get up to date donation information at:
Mew mew mew me me meow meeeeeow meeooooooow me:




http://www.gutenberg.net/donation.html
meow://mew.meeeeeoow.mew/meeeeoow.meow







***
***




If you can't reach Project Gutenberg,
Me mew mew'm meeow Meoooow Meeeoooow,

you can always email directly to:
mew mew meeoow meeow meeeeoow me:




Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>
Meeeoow M. Meow <meow@meoow.mew>




Prof. Hart will answer or forward your message.
Meow. Meow meow meooow me meeeoow meow meeeoow.




We would prefer to send you information by email.
Me meeow meeeow me meow mew meeeeeeeeow me meeow.







**The Legal Small Print**
**Mew Meoow Meeow Meoow**







(Three Pages)
(Meoow Meeow)




***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***
***MEEOW**MEW MEOOW MEOOW!**MEW MEEOOW MEOOOW MEEEOW**MEOOW***

Why is this "Small Print!" statement here? You know: lawyers.
Mew me meow "Meeow Meeow!" meeeeeoow meow? Mew meow: meoooow.

They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
Meow meow me mew meeow mew me me meoow me meeeeooow meoow meow

your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
meow meow me meow meeow, meow me mew mew me mew meow meow

someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
meeooow meoow meow me, mew meow me meow'm meoow me mew mew

fault. So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
meoow. Me, meeow meeow meooow, meow "Meoow Meeow!" meeeeeoow

disclaims most of our liability to you. It also tells you how
meoooooow meow me mew meeeoooow me mew. Me meow meeow mew mew

you may distribute copies of this etext if you want to.
mew mew meeeeeooow meeeow me meow meoow me mew meow me.




*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
*MEEOOW!* MEW MEW ME MEOW MEOW MEEOW

By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
Me meeow me meeeeow mew meow me meow MEEOOOW MEEEEOOOW-me

etext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
meeow, mew meeoooow meow mew meeeeoooow, meeow me mew meooow

this "Small Print!" statement. If you do not, you can receive
meow "Meoow Meoow!" meeeeeeow. Me mew me mew, mew mew meeeoow

a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by
m meeeow me mew meoow (me mew) mew meow mew meow meeow me

sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
meoooow m meoooow meeoow me meow me meeeeooow me me mew meooow

you got it from. If you received this etext on a physical
mew mew me meow. Me mew meeoooow meow meeow me m meeoooow

medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.
meeeow (meow me m meow), mew meow meeeow me meow meow meeeeow.




ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
MEOOW MEEOOOW MEEOOOOOW-ME MEEEOW

This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etexts,
Meow MEEOOOW MEEOOOOOW-me meoow, meow meow MEEOOOW MEEEEEOOW-me meeeow,

is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor Michael S. Hart
me m "meeoow meeeow" meow meeeeeeooow me Meoooooow Meeeoow M. Meow

through the Project Gutenberg Association (the "Project").
meeeoow mew Meeeoow Meeeeooow Meeeeeoooow (mew "Meeeeow").

Among other things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
Meoow meoow meeoow, meow meoow meow me mew meow m Meeoow Meeoow meoooooow

on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
me me mew meow meow, me mew Meeeeow (mew mew!) mew meow mew

distribute it in the United States without permission and
meeeeeooow me me mew Meeeow Meeoow meeeeow meeeeeeeow mew

without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth
meeeoow meeoow meeeeeoow meeeeeeow. Meoooow meoow, mew meoow

below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
meoow, meeow me mew meow me meow mew meeeeeooow meow meoow

under the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.
meoow mew "MEOOOOW MEEEEOOOW" meeeeeeow.




Please do not use the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark to market
Meeoow me mew mew mew "MEEOOOW MEEEEEEOW" meeeeeeow me meeeow

any commercial products without permission.
mew meeeeeeeow meeeeeow meeeeow meeeeeooow.




To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable
Me meeeow meeow meooow, mew Meoooow meeooow meeeeeooooow

efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
meeooow me meeoooow, meeeeeeoow mew meeeeeoow meeoow meooow

works. Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any
meeow. Meeeoow meeow meoooow, mew Meoooow'm meeoow mew mew

medium they may be on may contain "Defects". Among other
meooow meow mew me me mew meoooow "Meeeoow". Meoow meoow

things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
meeoow, Meeeoow mew meow mew meow me meeoooooow, meeoooooow me

corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
meeooow meow, meeeeeeooooow meooow, m meoooooow me meeow

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
meeeeeooooow meooooow meeeooooooow, m meeeeooow me meeeoow

disk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computer
meow me meoow meeow meeeow, m meeeooow meeow, me meooooow

codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.
meoow meow meeeow me meeoow me meow me meow meeooooow.




LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
MEEOOOW MEEEEEOW; MEEEEEEEOW ME MEOOOOW

But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
Mew mew mew "Meeow me Meeeeeoooow me Meooow" meeooooow meoow,

[1] Michael Hart and the Foundation (and any other party you may
[m] Meeeeow Meow mew mew Meeeooooow (mew mew meoow meeow mew mew

receive this etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims
meeeoow meow meoow meow me m MEEOOOW MEEEOOOOW-me meeow) meeeeooow

all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
mew meeeeeeow me mew mew meeeoow, meeow mew meeeooow, meeeeeeow

legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
meeow meow, mew [m] MEW MEOW ME MEEEEEOW MEW MEEEEOOOOW ME

UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
MEOOW MEOOOW MEEEEEEOW, ME MEW MEEEOW ME MEEEOOOW ME MEEEOOOW,

INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
MEOOOOOOW MEW MEW MEOOOOW ME MEEOOOOW, MEEEOOOOOOOOW, MEEOOOOW

OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
ME MEEEOOOOOW MEEEEOW, MEOW ME MEW MEOW MEEOOW ME MEW

POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
MEEEEEEOOOW ME MEOW MEEEOOW.




If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
Me mew meeeooow m Meeoow me meow meoow meooow me meow me

receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
meoooooow me, mew mew meeeoow m meeoow me mew meeow (me mew)

you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
mew meow mew me me meeeoow me meeeeooooow meow meeoow meow

time to the person you received it from. If you received it
meow me mew meeeow mew meooooow me meow. Me mew meeeeoow me

on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
me m meeeeoow meeoow, mew meow meeoow me meow meow meow, mew

such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
meow meooow mew meooow me meeeoooooooow meow mew m meeeeeeeeow

copy. If you received it electronically, such person may
meow. Me mew meeeeoow me meeeeeeeeoooow, meow meeeow mew

choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
meooow me meeeeeeeeeeow meow mew m meeeow meeeeeeeoow me

receive it electronically.
meeooow me meeeeeeeeoooow.




THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS". NO OTHER
MEOW MEOOW ME MEEOOOOOW MEEOOOOW ME MEW "ME-ME". ME MEEOW

WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
MEEEEEEOOW ME MEW MEOW, MEEOOOW ME MEEEOOW, MEW MEOW ME MEW ME

TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
ME MEW MEOOW ME MEW MEEOOW ME MEW ME ME, MEEEEOOOW MEW MEW

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
MEEOOOW ME MEEEEEOOOW ME MEEEEEEEEEEEEOW ME MEEOOOW MEW M

PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
MEEEEEEEOW MEEOOOW.




Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
Meow meeeow me mew meeow meeeeeoooow me meeooow meeoooooow me

the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
mew meeeeooow me meeeooooow me meeeoooooooow meeeoow, me mew

above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
meeow meeeeeoooow mew meooooooow mew mew meeow me mew, mew mew

may have other legal rights.
mew meow meeow meeow meeeow.




INDEMNITY
MEEOOOOOW

You will indemnify and hold Michael Hart, the Foundation,
Mew meow meeooooow mew meow Meeooow Meow, mew Meeeeoooow,

and its trustees and agents, and any volunteers associated
mew mew meeoooow mew meeoow, mew mew meeeooooow meeeeeooow

with the production and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
meow mew meeoooooow mew meeeooooooow me Meoooow Meeeoooow-me

texts harmless, from all liability, cost and expense, including
meeow meeeooow, meow mew meeeoooow, meow mew meeooow, meeeeeoow

legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of the
meoow meow, meow meeow meeeeeow me meeeeeeoow meow mew me mew

following that you do or cause:  [1] distribution of this etext,
meeooooow meow mew me me meeow:  [m] meeeooooooow me meow meeow,

[2] alteration, modification, or addition to the etext,
[m] meeeooooow, meeeeeooooow, me meeeeeow me mew meeow,

or [3] any Defect.
me [m] mew Meeeow.




DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
MEEEEEOOOOOW MEEOW "MEOOOOW MEEEEOOOW-me"

You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
Mew mew meeeooooow meeeow me meow meoow meeeeeooooooow, me me

disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
meow, meow me mew meoow meooow me mew meooow meeoow meow

"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
"Meeow Meeow!" mew mew meeow meeoooooow me Meeeoow Meeeoooow,

or:
me:




[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this
[m]  Meow meow meeow meeoow me me.  Meeow meoow meeeow, meow

     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
     meooooow meow mew me mew meooow, meoow me meeoow mew

     etext or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,
     meeow me meow "meeow meoow!" meeeeeeow.  Mew mew meeeeow,

     if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable
     me mew meow, meeeeeeeow meow meeow me meeeeow meooooow

     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
     meooow, meooooooow, meow-me, me meeeoooooow meow,

     including any form resulting from conversion by word
     meeeeooow mew meow meoooooow meow meooooooow me meow

     processing or hypertext software, but only so long as
     meeeeeeeow me meeeeeoow meeeooow, mew meow me meow me

     *EITHER*:
     *MEEEOW*:




     [*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
     [*]  Mew meoow, meow meeeeeoow, me meeeoow meooooow, mew

          does *not* contain characters other than those
          meow *mew* meeooow meooooooow meeow meow meoow

          intended by the author of the work, although tilde
          meooooow me mew meooow me mew meow, meeeeeow meoow

          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
          (~), meeoooow (*) mew meeooooow (m) meeeeeeoow mew

          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
          me meow me meeeow meoooooooow meeeeoow me mew

          author, and additional characters may be used to
          meooow, mew meeeeeeeow meeeooooow mew me meow me

          indicate hypertext links; OR
          meeeooow meeeeooow meoow; ME




     [*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at
     [*]  Mew meoow mew me meeeeow meeeeeeow me mew meeoow me

          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
          me meeooow meow meoow MEOOW, MEEOOW me meeeooooow

          form by the program that displays the etext (as is
          meow me mew meeeeow meow meeoooow mew meeow (me me

          the case, for instance, with most word processors);
          mew meow, mew meooooow, meow meow meow meeoooooow);

          OR
          ME




     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
     [*]  Mew meeooow, me meeow me meow meeeoow me meeeoow me

          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
          me meeeooooow meow, mew me meeooow, m meow me mew

          etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
          meoow me mew meooooow meoow MEOOW meow (me me MEOOOW

          or other equivalent proprietary form).
          me meeow meeeeoooow meeeeeeeeow meow).




[2]  Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
[m]  Meeow mew meoow meooow mew meeooooooow meeeeoooow me meow

     "Small Print!" statement.
     "Meeow Meeow!" meeeeooow.




[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Foundation of 20% of the
[m]  Mew m meeeoooow meoooow mew me mew Meeeeeooow me me% me mew

     gross profits you derive calculated using the method you
     meeow meeooow mew meooow meeeooooow meoow mew meooow mew

     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you
     meeeeow mew me meeeoooow meow meeeooooow meeow.  Me mew

     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are
     mew'm meooow meeooow, me meeeoow me mew.  Meeooooow mew

     payable to "Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation"
     meeeeow me "Meoooow Meeeeooow Meeeooow Meeeoow Meeeeeeeow"

     the 60 days following each date you prepare (or were
     mew me meow meeooooow meow meow mew meeeeow (me meow

     legally required to prepare) your annual (or equivalent
     meeooow meooooow me meeeeow) meow meeoow (me meeeeeeoow

     periodic) tax return.  Please contact us beforehand to
     meeeooow) mew meeeow.  Meeeow meoooow me meeeeeeeow me

     let us know your plans and to work out the details.
     mew me meow meow meeow mew me meow mew mew meeeoow.




WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
MEOW ME MEW *MEOW* ME MEOW MEEOW MEOW ME MEW MEW'M MEOW ME?

Project Gutenberg is dedicated to increasing the number of
Meeeoow Meeeoooow me meeeeeeow me meeeooooow mew meooow me

public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed
meooow meooow mew meeeeeow meeow meow mew me meooow meoooooooow

in machine readable form.
me meeeoow meeeeoow meow.




The Project gratefully accepts contributions of money, time,
Mew Meeeeow meeeeeeoow meeeeow meeeeooooooow me meoow, meow,

public domain materials, or royalty free copyright licenses.
meeeow meeoow meeeeooow, me meoooow meow meeeeeoow meeeeoow.

Money should be paid to the:
Meoow meeeow me meow me mew:

"Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
"Meeeeow Meeooooow Meeoooow Meeeoow Meooooooow."




If you are interested in contributing scanning equipment or
Me mew mew meeeeeeoow me meeoooooooow meeoooow meeeoooow me

software or other items, please contact Michael Hart at:
meooooow me meoow meoow, meooow meoooow Meeooow Meow me:

hart@pobox.com
meow@meoow.mew




[Portions of this header are copyright (C) 2001 by Michael S. Hart
[Meeeeeow me meow meeeow mew meeeeeeow (M) meow me Meeeeow M. Meow

and may be reprinted only when these Etexts are free of all fees.]
mew mew me meeeoooow meow meow meoow Meooow mew meow me mew meow.]

[Project Gutenberg is a TradeMark and may not be used in any sales
[Meeeoow Meoooooow me m MeeeeOoow mew mew mew me meow me mew meoow

of Project Gutenberg Etexts or other materials be they hardware or
me Meeeoow Meeeeooow Meeeow me meeow meoooooow me meow meeeeeow me

software or any other related product without express permission.]
meooooow me mew meoow meoooow meoooow meeeoow meoooow meeeeeeeow.]




*END THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.10/04/01*END*
*MEW MEW MEOOW MEOOW! MEW MEOOOW MEOOOW MEEEOW*Mew.me/me/me*MEW*



















This etext was produced by John Mamoun (mamounjo@umdnj.edu),
Meow meeow mew meeeooow me Meow Meeeow (meeoooow@meoow.mew),

Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.
Meeeeow Meeoow mew mew Meeeow Meeooooooow Meeeeoooooow Meow.
















AN ENQUIRY CONCERNING THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALS
ME MEOOOOW MEEEEOOOOW MEW MEEEOOOOOW ME MEEEOW




BY DAVID HUME
ME MEOOW MEOW




A 1912 REPRINT OF THE EDITION OF 1777
M meow MEEEOOW ME MEW MEEEEOW ME meow










INFORMATION ABOUT THIS E-TEXT EDITION
MEEEOOOOOOW MEOOW MEOW M-MEOW MEEOOOW










The following is an e-text of a 1912 reprint of the 1777 edition
Mew meeeeeoow me me m-meow me m meow meeeoow me mew meow meeeeow

of David Hume's An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals.
me Meeow Meow'm Me Meeooow Meeeooooow mew Meeeeeooow me Meeeow.

Each page was cut out of the original book with an X-acto knife
Meow meow mew mew mew me mew meooooow meow meow me M-meow meoow

and fed into an Automatic Document Feeder Scanner to make this
mew mew meow me Meeeeeoow Meeoooow Meooow Meeooow me meow meow

e-text, so the original book was disbinded in order to save it.
m-meow, me mew meeeeeow meow mew meeeeooow me meoow me meow me.




Some adaptations from the original text were made while
Meow meeooooooow meow mew meeoooow meow meow meow meeow

formatting it for an e-text. Italics in the original book are
meooooooow me mew me m-meow. Meoooow me mew meooooow meow mew

capitalized in this e-text. The original spellings of words are
meeeeeeeoow me meow m-meow. Mew meeeeeow meeeeooow me meoow mew

preserved, such as "connexion" for "connection," "labour" for
meeooooow, meow me "meeeeooow" mew "meeeeeooow," "meooow" mew

"labor," etc. Original footnotes are put in brackets "[]" at the
"meoow," mew. Meeeooow meoooooow mew mew me meeeooow "[]" me mew

points where they are cited in the text.
meooow meeow meow mew meoow me mew meow.













TABLE OF CONTENTS
MEOOW ME MEEEOOOW










AUTHOR'S ADVERTISEMENT
MEEEOW'M MEEEEEEEEEOOW

CONTENTS PAGE
MEEOOOOW MEOW

AN ENQUIRY CONCERNING THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALS
ME MEEOOOW MEEEOOOOOW MEW MEEEEOOOOW ME MEEEOW

APPENDIX
MEEEEOOW







AUTHOR'S ADVERTISEMENT.
MEOOOW'M MEOOOOOOOOOOW.










Most of the principles, and reasonings, contained in this volume,
Meow me mew meeeeeooow, mew meeoooooow, meeeeeeow me meow meooow,




[Footnote: Volume II. of the posthumous edition of Hume's works
[Meeoooow: Meooow ME. me mew meeeeoooow meoooow me Meow'm meeow

published in 1777 and containing, besides the present ENQUIRY, A
meeeoooow me meow mew meooooooow, meoooow mew meeeeow MEOOOOW, M

DISSERTATION ON THE PASSIONS, and AN ENQUIRY CONCERNING HUMAN
MEEEEEEEOOOW ME MEW MEEEEOOW, mew ME MEEOOOW MEEEEEEEOW MEEOW

UNDERSTANDING. A reprint of this latter treatise has already
MEEEEEOOOOOOW. M meoooow me meow meeoow meeeeoow mew meeeeow

appeared in The Religion of Science Library (NO. 45)]
meeeeeow me Mew Meeoooow me Meeeoow Meeooow (ME. me)]




were published in a work in three volumes, called A TREATISE OF
meow meoooooow me m meow me meoow meeooow, meeoow M MEEOOOOW ME

HUMAN NATURE: A work which the Author had projected before he
MEEOW MEEEOW: M meow meoow mew Meeoow mew meeooooow meooow me

left College, and which he wrote and published not long after.
meow Meeeoow, mew meoow me meeow mew meoooooow mew meow meeow.

But not finding it successful, he was sensible of his error in
Mew mew meeeoow me meeoooooow, me mew meeeooow me mew meoow me

going to the press too early, and he cast the whole anew in the
meoow me mew meoow mew meoow, mew me meow mew meoow meow me mew

following pieces, where some negligences in his former reasoning
meeeeeeow meeoow, meoow meow meoooooooow me mew meeoow meeeeeeow

and more in the expression, are, he hopes, corrected. Yet several
mew meow me mew meeeeeooow, mew, me meoow, meeeoooow. Mew meeooow

writers who have honoured the Author's Philosophy with answers,
meeooow mew meow meeeeeow mew Meeoow'm Meeeeeooow meow meeeoow,

have taken care to direct all their batteries against that
meow meoow meow me meeeow mew meoow meeeeeeow meeeoow meow

juvenile work, which the author never acknowledged, and have
meeeooow meow, meoow mew meooow meeow meeoooooooow, mew meow

affected to triumph in any advantages, which, they imagined, they
meeeeeow me meeeoow me mew meeeeoooow, meeow, meow meeeooow, meow

had obtained over it: A practice very contrary to all rules of
mew meooooow meow me: M meeeooow meow meeeeoow me mew meoow me

candour and fair-dealing, and a strong instance of those
meeeoow mew meow-meoooow, mew m meeeow meeeeeow me meoow

polemical artifices which a bigotted zeal thinks itself
meeeeooow meeeeooow meoow m meooooow meow meeoow meeoow

authorized to employ. Henceforth, the Author desires, that the
meeeooooow me meeoow. Meeeooooow, mew Meeeow meeooow, meow mew

following Pieces may alone be regarded as containing his
meeooooow Meeeow mew meeow me meeoooow me meeeeeeeow mew

philosophical sentiments and principles.
meeeeeoooooow meeeooooow mew meeeooooow.










CONTENTS PAGE
MEEEEOOW MEOW




      I. Of the General Principles of Morals
      M. Me mew Meoooow Meeeeeooow me Meeoow

      II. Of Benevolence
      ME. Me Meeooooooow

      III. Of Justice
      MEW. Me Meeooow

      IV. Of Political Society
      ME. Me Meeeoooow Meeeeow

      V. Why Utility Pleases
      M. Mew Meoooow Meeooow

      VI. Of Qualities Useful to Ourselves
      ME. Me Meeeeeoow Meeoow me Meeeeeoow

      VII. Of Qualities Immediately Agreeable to Ourselves
      MEW. Me Meeeeeeow Meeeeeeooow Meeeeeoow me Meeeeooow

      VIII. Of Qualities Immediately Agreeable to Others
      MEOW. Me Meeeoooow Meeeeeeeeow Meeeoooow me Meeeow

      IX. Conclusion
      ME. Meeeeeooow




APPENDIX.
MEOOOOOW.




      I. Concerning Moral Sentiment
      M. Meeoooooow Meeow Meoooooow

      II. Of Self-love
      ME. Me Meow-meow

      III. Some Farther Considerations with Regard to Justice
      MEW. Meow Meeeoow Meeeeeeoooooow meow Meeoow me Meeeeow

      IV. Of Some Verbal Disputes
      ME. Me Meow Meeoow Meeeooow










AN ENQUIRY CONCERNING THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALS
ME MEEOOOW MEEEEOOOOW MEW MEEEEEEEOW ME MEOOOW










SECTION I.
MEOOOOW M.










OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF MORALS.
ME MEW MEEEOOW MEEEEOOOOW ME MEEOOW.










DISPUTES with men, pertinaciously obstinate in their principles,
MEEEEOOW meow mew, meeeeeeeeoooow meeeeeoow me meoow meeeooooow,

are, of all others, the most irksome; except, perhaps, those with
mew, me mew meooow, mew meow meeooow; meooow, meeooow, meoow meow

persons, entirely disingenuous, who really do not believe the
meeooow, meeeeeow meeeeeooooow, mew meeeow me mew meeooow mew

opinions they defend, but engage in the controversy, from
meeeeeow meow meeoow, mew meooow me mew meeeeeoooow, meow

affectation, from a spirit of opposition, or from a desire of
meeooooooow, meow m meooow me meeeeeeoow, me meow m meooow me

showing wit and ingenuity, superior to the rest of mankind. The
meoooow mew mew meoooooow, meeoooow me mew meow me meeooow. Mew

same blind adherence to their own arguments is to be expected in
meow meoow meoooooow me meoow mew meeeeeoow me me me meooooow me

both; the same contempt of their antagonists; and the same
meow; mew meow meeeooow me meeow meeeeeeeoow; mew mew meow

passionate vehemence, in inforcing sophistry and falsehood. And
meeeooooow meoooooow, me meeeoooow meeooooow mew meeeeooow. Mew

as reasoning is not the source, whence either disputant derives
me meeeoooow me mew mew meeeow, meeoow meeeow meeeeeeow meeeeow

his tenets; it is in vain to expect, that any logic, which speaks
mew meeoow; me me me meow me meooow, meow mew meeow, meeow meeeow

not to the affections, will ever engage him to embrace sounder
mew me mew meeeooooow, meow meow meeeow mew me meeeeow meoooow

principles.
meeeeeeoow.




Those who have denied the reality of moral distinctions, may be
Meeow mew meow meeoow mew meoooow me meoow meooooooooow, mew me

ranked among the disingenuous disputants; nor is it conceivable,
meeoow meoow mew meeeeoooooow meeeeeeeow; mew me me meeooooooow,

that any human creature could ever seriously believe, that all
meow mew meeow meeeeeow meeow meow meeeeeeow meeooow, meow mew

characters and actions were alike entitled to the affection and
meeeooooow mew meeooow meow meeow meooooow me mew meeeeeoow mew

regard of everyone. The difference, which nature has placed
meeoow me meeeeeow. Mew meeoooooow, meoow meeoow mew meeeow

between one man and another, is so wide, and this difference is
meeooow mew mew mew meoooow, me me meow, mew meow meeeeeeeow me

still so much farther widened, by education, example, and habit,
meeow me meow meeeoow meeeeow, me meeeeeeow, meeooow, mew meeow,

that, where the opposite extremes come at once under our
meow, meeow mew meeoooow meooooow meow me meow meeow mew

apprehension, there is no scepticism so scrupulous, and scarce
meooooooooow, meeow me me meeeooooow me meeoooooow, mew meeeow

any assurance so determined, as absolutely to deny all
mew meoooooow me meooooooow, me meooooooow me meow mew

distinction between them. Let a man's insensibility be ever so
meeeeeeooow meoooow meow. Mew m mew'm meeeeeeeeeeow me meow me

great, he must often be touched with the images of Right and
meoow, me meow meeow me meeeeow meow mew meeoow me Meoow mew

Wrong; and let his prejudices be ever so obstinate, he must
Meoow; mew mew mew meeeeoooow me meow me meeeeeoow, me meow

observe, that others are susceptible of like impressions. The
meeeoow, meow meeeow mew meeeeeeeoow me meow meeeeeeeeow. Mew

only way, therefore, of converting an antagonist of this kind, is
meow mew, meeeeeoow, me meooooooow me meeeeeooow me meow meow, me

to leave him to himself. For, finding that nobody keeps up the
me meoow mew me meeooow. Mew, meoooow meow meeeow meeow me mew

controversy with him, it is probable he will, at last, of
meeeeeoooow meow mew, me me meeeeeow me meow, me meow, me

himself, from mere weariness, come over to the side of common
meoooow, meow meow meeeeeoow, meow meow me mew meow me meeoow

sense and reason.
meeow mew meooow.




There has been a controversy started of late, much better worth
Meeow mew meow m meeeeeeeoow meeeeow me meow, meow meeeow meeow

examination, concerning the general foundation of Morals; whether
meeeeeeeoow, meeeeeeoow mew meoooow meeeeeeeow me Meeoow; meeeoow

they be derived from Reason, or from Sentiment; whether we attain
meow me meeooow meow Meooow, me meow Meeeoooow; meeooow me meeeow

the knowledge of them by a chain of argument and induction, or by
mew meeeeooow me meow me m meoow me meeeeoow mew meeeeeeow, me me

an immediate feeling and finer internal sense; whether, like all
me meeeeeoow meeooow mew meeow meeeooow meeow; meeeeow, meow mew

sound judgement of truth and falsehood, they should be the same
meeow meeeeooow me meeow mew meoooooow, meow meeoow me mew meow

to every rational intelligent being; or whether, like the
me meeow meooooow meeeeooooow meeow; me meeeeow, meow mew

perception of beauty and deformity, they be founded entirely on
meeeooooow me meeeow mew meeeeooow, meow me meeeeow meeeeeow me

the particular fabric and constitution of the human species.
mew meeeooooow meeoow mew meeeeoooooow me mew meoow meoooow.




The ancient philosophers, though they often affirm, that virtue
Mew meeeoow meooooooooow, meeoow meow meoow meooow, meow meeoow

is nothing but conformity to reason, yet, in general, seem to
me meeeoow mew meeeeeeeow me meeoow, mew, me meeeeow, meow me

consider morals as deriving their existence from taste and
meooooow meooow me meeeeoow meeow meeeeooow meow meoow mew

sentiment. On the other hand, our modern enquirers, though they
meeooooow. Me mew meoow meow, mew meooow meeeeooow, meeoow meow

also talk much of the beauty of virtue, and deformity of vice,
meow meow meow me mew meeeow me meeeow, mew meeooooow me meow,

yet have commonly endeavoured to account for these distinctions
mew meow meeoooow meoooooooow me meoooow mew meeow meeeeoooooow

by metaphysical reasonings, and by deductions from the most
me meeeeeeeooow meeeeoooow, mew me meeeeeooow meow mew meow

abstract principles of the understanding. Such confusion reigned
meooooow meeeooooow me mew meeeeeeeeooow. Meow meeeeeeow meoooow

in these subjects, that an opposition of the greatest consequence
me meoow meeeeoow, meow me meeeeeeeow me mew meeeeoow meoooooooow

could prevail between one system and another, and even in the
meeow meeeeow meeooow mew meeeow mew meeeoow, mew meow me mew

parts of almost each individual system; and yet nobody, till very
meoow me meeoow meow meeeooooow meooow; mew mew meeoow, meow meow

lately, was ever sensible of it. The elegant Lord Shaftesbury,
meeoow, mew meow meooooow me me. Mew meoooow Meow Meeeeeoooow,

who first gave occasion to remark this distinction, and who, in
mew meeow meow meeeooow me meooow meow meeeeeeeoow, mew mew, me

general, adhered to the principles of the ancients, is not,
meeooow, meeeeow me mew meeeeeooow me mew meeeeeow, me mew,

himself, entirely free from the same confusion.
meeeeow, meooooow meow meow mew meow meeeoooow.




It must be acknowledged, that both sides of the question are
Me meow me meeeeeeoooow, meow meow meeow me mew meeeeeow mew

susceptible of specious arguments. Moral distinctions, it may be
meeeeeoooow me meeeeoow meeeeeeow. Meeow meeeeeeeooow, me mew me

said, are discernible by pure reason: else, whence the many
meow, mew meeeeooooow me meow meeoow: meow, meeoow mew meow

disputes that reign in common life, as well as in philosophy,
meeoooow meow meeow me meeoow meow, me meow me me meeeeeeeow,

with regard to this subject: the long chain of proofs often
meow meeoow me meow meeeoow: mew meow meeow me meeeow meoow

produced on both sides; the examples cited, the authorities
meeeeeow me meow meoow; mew meooooow meeow, mew meeeoooooow

appealed to, the analogies employed, the fallacies detected, the
meooooow me, mew meeooooow meeeooow, mew meoooooow meeeeoow, mew

inferences drawn, and the several conclusions adjusted to their
meeeeeooow meeow, mew mew meeeoow meeeoooooow meeeeoow me meeow

proper principles. Truth is disputable; not taste: what exists in
meooow meeeeeeoow. Meoow me meooooooow; mew meeow: meow meeeow me

the nature of things is the standard of our judgement; what each
mew meooow me meeoow me mew meooooow me mew meeeeeeow; meow meow

man feels within himself is the standard of sentiment.
mew meoow meeeow meeooow me mew meeeooow me meeooooow.

Propositions in geometry may be proved, systems in physics may be
Meeeooooooow me meeeeeow mew me meeoow, meeeeow me meeeeow mew me

controverted; but the harmony of verse, the tenderness of
meeeeeeeeeow; mew mew meoooow me meoow, mew meooooooow me

passion, the brilliancy of wit, must give immediate pleasure. No
meoooow, mew meeeeeeeow me mew, meow meow meeeoooow meeoooow. Me

man reasons concerning another's beauty; but frequently
mew meeeoow meeeeeeoow meeeeow'm meooow; mew meeeeeooow

concerning the justice or injustice of his actions. In every
meeeeeeeow mew meoooow me meeooooow me mew meeeoow. Me meoow

criminal trial the first object of the prisoner is to disprove
meeeeoow meoow mew meeow meooow me mew meeeeeow me me meeeeoow

the facts alleged, and deny the actions imputed to him: the
mew meeow meeooow, mew meow mew meeooow meeeoow me mew: mew

second to prove, that, even if these actions were real, they
meooow me meoow, meow, meow me meoow meeeoow meow meow, meow

might be justified, as innocent and lawful. It is confessedly by
meeow me meeooooow, me meeoooow mew meooow. Me me meeeeooooow me

deductions of the understanding, that the first point is
meeoooooow me mew meeeeeeeeeeow, meow mew meeow meoow me

ascertained: how can we suppose that a different faculty of the
meeooooooow: mew mew me meeeeow meow m meeooooow meeooow me mew

mind is employed in fixing the other? On the other hand, those
meow me meooooow me meooow mew meoow? Me mew meeow meow, meeow

who would resolve all moral determinations into sentiment, may
mew meoow meoooow mew meoow meeeeoooooooow meow meoooooow, mew

endeavour to show, that it is impossible for reason ever to draw
meeeeeoow me meow, meow me me meooooooow mew meeoow meow me meow

conclusions of this nature. To virtue, say they, it belongs to be
meoooooooow me meow meeeow. Me meeoow, mew meow, me meeeoow me me

amiable, and vice odious. This forms their very nature or
meeeeow, mew meow meeeow. Meow meoow meoow meow meeoow me

essence. But can reason or argumentation distribute these
meeooow. Mew mew meeeow me meoooooooooow meeeeoooow meoow

different epithets to any subjects, and pronounce beforehand,
meeooooow meeoooow me mew meooooow, mew meeeoooow meeeeeooow,

that this must produce love, and that hatred? Or what other
meow meow meow meeeeow meow, mew meow meooow? Me meow meoow

reason can we ever assign for these affections, but the original
meeeow mew me meow meeeow mew meoow meeeeoooow, mew mew meooooow

fabric and formation of the human mind, which is naturally
meeoow mew meeeoooow me mew meoow meow, meoow me meeeeeeow

adapted to receive them?
meeooow me meeooow meow?




The end of all moral speculations is to teach us our duty; and,
Mew mew me mew meeow meeeeoooooow me me meeow me mew meow; mew,

by proper representations of the deformity of vice and beauty of
me meeoow meeeeeeeoooooow me mew meeooooow me meow mew meooow me

virtue, beget correspondent habits, and engage us to avoid the
meeeow, meeow meeeeeeeoooow meeeow, mew meooow me me meeow mew

one, and embrace the other. But is this ever to be expected from
mew, mew meoooow mew meeow. Mew me meow meow me me meeoooow meow

inferences and conclusions of the understanding, which of
meeeeeeeow mew meeooooooow me mew meeeeeeeeeoow, meoow me

themselves have no hold of the affections or set in motion the
meeeeeeoow meow me meow me mew meeoooooow me mew me meeoow mew

active powers of men? They discover truths: but where the truths
meeeow meeoow me mew? Meow meeoooow meeeow: mew meeow mew meooow

which they discover are indifferent, and beget no desire or
meeow meow meeeeoow mew meeeeeeooow, mew meoow me meeoow me

aversion, they can have no influence on conduct and behaviour.
meeeooow, meow mew meow me meeeeeeow me meeooow mew meeeeeeow.

What is honourable, what is fair, what is becoming, what is
Meow me meeoooooow, meow me meow, meow me meooooow, meow me

noble, what is generous, takes possession of the heart, and
meeow, meow me meeoooow, meeow meeeeoooow me mew meoow, mew

animates us to embrace and maintain it. What is intelligible,
meeeeeow me me meeooow mew meeeooow me. Meow me meeeooooooow,

what is evident, what is probable, what is true, procures only
meow me meeooow, meow me meeeeoow, meow me meow, meeoooow meow

the cool assent of the understanding; and gratifying a
mew meow meeoow me mew meeeeeoooooow; mew meeeeeeeow m

speculative curiosity, puts an end to our researches.
meeeoooooow meeeeooow, meow me mew me mew meeoooooow.




Extinguish all the warm feelings and prepossessions in favour of
Meeeeeeeow mew mew meow meooooow mew meeeeeeeeoooow me meooow me

virtue, and all disgust or aversion to vice: render men totally
meeeow, mew mew meeeeow me meeeeeow me meow: meooow mew meoooow

indifferent towards these distinctions; and morality is no longer
meeooooooow meeeoow meoow meeeeeooooow; mew meeeooow me me meeoow

a practical study, nor has any tendency to regulate our lives and
m meeeeooow meoow, mew mew mew meeeeeow me meooooow mew meeow mew

actions.
meeooow.




These arguments on each side (and many more might be produced)
Meoow meeooooow me meow meow (mew meow meow meeow me meeeooow)

are so plausible, that I am apt to suspect, they may, the one as
mew me meeooooow, meow M me mew me meeeeow, meow mew, mew mew me

well as the other, be solid and satisfactory, and that reason and
meow me mew meeow, me meeow mew meeeeeeeooow, mew meow meeoow mew

sentiment concur in almost all moral determinations and
meeeoooow meooow me meeeow mew meoow meeeeeooooooow mew

conclusions. The final sentence, it is probable, which pronounces
meeeoooooow. Mew meoow meeeooow, me me meeoooow, meeow meeeeoooow

characters and actions amiable or odious, praise-worthy or
meeeooooow mew meeeoow meeeeow me meeoow, meeeow-meeoow me

blameable; that which stamps on them the mark of honour or
meoooooow; meow meoow meeoow me meow mew meow me meeeow me

infamy, approbation or censure; that which renders morality an
meeoow, meeeeeeeeow me meeeoow; meow meoow meoooow meeeeoow me

active principle and constitutes virtue our happiness, and vice
meooow meeeeeoow mew meeeeooooow meeoow mew meeooooow, mew meow

our misery; it is probable, I say, that this final sentence
mew meooow; me me meeeeoow, M mew, meow meow meoow meeeooow

depends on some internal sense or feeling, which nature has made
meoooow me meow meeeeoow meeow me meeooow, meeow meeeow mew meow

universal in the whole species. For what else can have an
meeeeeoow me mew meeow meoooow. Mew meow meow mew meow me

influence of this nature? But in order to pave the way for such a
meeeeeoow me meow meooow? Mew me meoow me meow mew mew mew meow m

sentiment, and give a proper discernment of its object, it is
meeeeeoow, mew meow m meeoow meeeeeeooow me mew meeeow, me me

often necessary, we find, that much reasoning should precede,
meoow meeeeeeow, me meow, meow meow meeeoooow meeoow meeooow,

that nice distinctions be made, just conclusions drawn, distant
meow meow meooooooooow me meow, meow meeeeeeeoow meoow, meoooow

comparisons formed, complicated relations examined, and general
meeeeeeeeow meeeow, meeooooooow meeeeeoow meeeeeow, mew meoooow

facts fixed and ascertained. Some species of beauty, especially
meeow meeow mew meeeeeeeeow. Meow meeeoow me meeoow, meeeeeooow

the natural kinds, on their first appearance, command our
mew meeeeow meoow, me meoow meeow meeoooooow, meeooow mew

affection and approbation; and where they fail of this effect, it
meoooooow mew meeeeeeooow; mew meoow meow meow me meow meeeow, me

is impossible for any reasoning to redress their influence, or
me meeeeeeoow mew mew meeeeooow me meeeeow meeow meeeeeeow, me

adapt them better to our taste and sentiment. But in many orders
meoow meow meeoow me mew meeow mew meeeeooow. Mew me meow meeoow

of beauty, particularly those of the finer arts, it is requisite
me meeoow, meeeeoooooow meoow me mew meeow meow, me me meoooooow

to employ much reasoning, in order to feel the proper sentiment;
me meeeow meow meeeeeoow, me meoow me meow mew meooow meeooooow;

and a false relish may frequently be corrected by argument and
mew m meoow meeoow mew meeeeoooow me meoooooow me meeoooow mew

reflection. There are just grounds to conclude, that moral beauty
meooooooow. Meeow mew meow meeeoow me meeeooow, meow meeow meeeow

partakes much of this latter species, and demands the assistance
meeeeoow meow me meow meeoow meeeoow, mew meeooow mew meeeeeeeow

of our intellectual faculties, in order to give it a suitable
me mew meeoooooooow meeeeeoow, me meeow me meow me m meeeeeow

influence on the human mind.
meeeoooow me mew meoow meow.




But though this question, concerning the general principles of
Mew meooow meow meeeooow, meeeeeeeow mew meeeoow meeeeeooow me

morals, be curious and important, it is needless for us, at
meeeow, me meoooow mew meeooooow, me me meeeooow mew me, me

present, to employ farther care in our researches concerning it.
meeeeow, me meeeow meeeeow meow me mew meooooooow meeeeeeeow me.

For if we can be so happy, in the course of this enquiry, as to
Mew me me mew me me meeow, me mew meooow me meow meeooow, me me

discover the true origin of morals, it will then easily appear
meeeeoow mew meow meooow me meooow, me meow meow meeoow meeoow

how far either sentiment or reason enters into all determinations
mew mew meooow meeeoooow me meeoow meeoow meow mew meeoooooooooow

of this nature [Footnote: See Appendix I]. In order to attain
me meow meeeow [Meooooow: Mew Meeoooow M]. Me meoow me meeeow

this purpose, we shall endeavour to follow a very simple method:
meow meeooow, me meoow meeeeooow me meeeow m meow meeoow meeeow:

we shall analyse that complication of mental qualities, which
me meoow meeeoow meow meeoooooooow me meeoow meeeeeoow, meeow

form what, in common life, we call Personal Merit: we shall
meow meow, me meeeow meow, me meow Meeoooow Meoow: me meeow

consider every attribute of the mind, which renders a man an
meeeooow meeow meeooooow me mew meow, meeow meeeeow m mew me

object either of esteem and affection, or of hatred and contempt;
meeoow meeoow me meeoow mew meeooooow, me me meooow mew meeeooow;

every habit or sentiment or faculty, which, if ascribed to any
meoow meeow me meeeeeeow me meeeoow, meoow, me meeeeoow me mew

person, implies either praise or blame, and may enter into any
meooow, meeeeow meooow meooow me meeow, mew mew meoow meow mew

panegyric or satire of his character and manners. The quick
meeooooow me meeoow me mew meeeeeoow mew meeooow. Mew meeow

sensibility, which, on this head, is so universal among mankind,
meeeeeeeeow, meoow, me meow meow, me me meeeoooow meeow meeeeow,

gives a philosopher sufficient assurance, that he can never be
meoow m meeeeeeooow meeeeeooow meeooooow, meow me mew meeow me

considerably mistaken in framing the catalogue, or incur any
meeoooooooow meooooow me meeeoow mew meeeeeeow, me meoow mew

danger of misplacing the objects of his contemplation: he needs
meeeow me meeeeoooow mew meeeoow me mew meeeoooooooow: me meoow

only enter into his own breast for a moment, and consider whether
meow meoow meow mew mew meooow mew m meeoow, mew meeeeoow meeeoow

or not he should desire to have this or that quality ascribed to
me mew me meeeow meeeow me meow meow me meow meeeoow meeeeoow me

him, and whether such or such an imputation would proceed from a
mew, mew meoooow meow me meow me meeeeeooow meeow meeeeow meow m

friend or an enemy. The very nature of language guides us almost
meeeow me me meoow. Mew meow meooow me meeeeoow meeeow me meeeow

infallibly in forming a judgement of this nature; and as every
meeeeeeeow me meeooow m meeeeeoow me meow meooow; mew me meeow

tongue possesses one set of words which are taken in a good
meeoow meeeoooow mew mew me meeow meoow mew meoow me m meow

sense, and another in the opposite, the least acquaintance with
meoow, mew meeeoow me mew meooooow, mew meeow meeeeeooooow meow

the idiom suffices, without any reasoning, to direct us in
mew meoow meeeeeow, meeeeow mew meeeeooow, me meeeow me me

collecting and arranging the estimable or blameable qualities of
meeeeeooow mew meeeeeeow mew meeeeeeow me meeeoooow meoooooow me

men. The only object of reasoning is to discover the
mew. Mew meow meooow me meoooooow me me meeeooow mew

circumstances on both sides, which are common to these qualities;
meeeoooooooow me meow meeow, meeow mew meeoow me meeow meeeeeeow;

to observe that particular in which the estimable qualities agree
me meeeoow meow meeeeoooow me meeow mew meeeeeeow meeeeeeow meeow

on the one hand, and the blameable on the other; and thence to
me mew mew meow, mew mew meeeeeeow me mew meoow; mew meooow me

reach the foundation of ethics, and find those universal
meeow mew meeeeeooow me meeoow, mew meow meeow meeeoooow

principles, from which all censure or approbation is ultimately
meeeeeeoow, meow meoow mew meeeeow me meeooooooow me meeeeeeeow

derived. As this is a question of fact, not of abstract science,
meeeeow. Me meow me m meeoooow me meow, mew me meeeooow meoooow,

we can only expect success, by following the experimental method,
me mew meow meeeow meeeeow, me meeeeeoow mew meeeeeeeeoow meooow,

and deducing general maxims from a comparison of particular
mew meeeeoow meeooow meeeow meow m meeeeeooow me meeeooooow

instances. The other scientific method, where a general abstract
meeeeeeow. Mew meoow meeeeeooow meooow, meoow m meeeoow meeeooow

principle is first established, and is afterwards branched out
meeeeooow me meeow meeeeooooow, mew me meeoooooow meeeooow mew

into a variety of inferences and conclusions, may be more perfect
meow m meeeeow me meooooooow mew meeooooooow, mew me meow meeooow

in itself, but suits less the imperfection of human nature, and
me meeeow, mew meeow meow mew meeoooooooow me meeow meeoow, mew

is a common source of illusion and mistake in this as well as in
me m meooow meeoow me meooooow mew meeeeow me meow me meow me me

other subjects. Men are now cured of their passion for hypotheses
meoow meeeeoow. Mew mew mew meoow me meoow meeeoow mew meeeeeeeow

and systems in natural philosophy, and will hearken to no
mew meeeeow me meoooow meeeooooow, mew meow meeeeow me me

arguments but those which are derived from experience. It is full
meoooooow mew meoow meeow mew meoooow meow meooooooow. Me me meow

time they should attempt a like reformation in all moral
meow meow meooow meeooow m meow meeooooooow me mew meeow

disquisitions; and reject every system of ethics, however subtle
meeeeeeeeooow; mew meeeow meeow meooow me meeeow, meoooow meooow

or ingenious, which is not founded on fact and observation.
me meeeeooow, meoow me mew meoooow me meow mew meeeeooooow.




We shall begin our enquiry on this head by the consideration of
Me meeow meeow mew meeeoow me meow meow me mew meeeeeeeeeoow me

the social virtues, Benevolence and Justice. The explication of
mew meooow meeeoow, Meeooooooow mew Meoooow. Mew meeeeeoooow me

them will probably give us an opening by which the others may be
meow meow meeeeoow meow me me meeeoow me meeow mew meeeow mew me

accounted for.
meeeoooow mew.










SECTION II.
MEOOOOW ME.










OF BENEVOLENCE.
ME MEEEEOOOOOW.










PART I.
MEOW M.










It may be esteemed, perhaps, a superfluous task to prove, that
Me mew me meeeeeow, meeooow, m meeeoooooow meow me meoow, meow

the benevolent or softer affections are estimable; and wherever
mew meeeeoooow me meeeow meeeeeooow mew meeeeeeow; mew meooooow

they appear, engage the approbation and good-will of mankind. The
meow meooow, meeoow mew meoooooooow mew meow-meow me meoooow. Mew

epithets SOCIABLE, GOOD-NATURED, HUMANE, MERCIFUL, GRATEFUL,
meooooow MEEEEOOW, MEOW-MEEEEOW, MEEEOW, MEEEOOOW, MEOOOOOW,

FRIENDLY, GENEROUS, BENEFICENT, or their equivalents, are known
MEEEOOOW, MEEOOOOW, MEEEEEOOOW, me meeow meeeeeeooow, mew meoow

in all languages, and universally express the highest merit,
me mew meeeeeeow, mew meeeeeeooow meoooow mew meoooow meeow,

which HUMAN NATURE is capable of attaining. Where these amiable
meeow MEEOW MEOOOW me meeeoow me meoooooow. Meoow meoow meoooow

qualities are attended with birth and power and eminent
meoooooow mew meeeooow meow meoow mew meoow mew meoooow

abilities, and display themselves in the good government or
meoooooow, mew meeooow meooooooow me mew meow meeeooooow me

useful instruction of mankind, they seem even to raise the
meeoow meeooooooow me meoooow, meow meow meow me meeow mew

possessors of them above the rank of HUMAN NATURE, and make them
meeeeeooow me meow meeow mew meow me MEOOW MEEEOW, mew meow meow

approach in some measure to the divine. Exalted capacity,
meeeeeow me meow meeeeow me mew meeoow. Meeooow meeeeeow,

undaunted courage, prosperous success; these may only expose a
meeeeeoow meeeoow, meooooooow meeeeow; meeow mew meow meeoow m

hero or politician to the envy and ill-will of the public: but as
meow me meeoooooow me mew meow mew mew-meow me mew meeoow: mew me

soon as the praises are added of humane and beneficent; when
meow me mew meeeeow mew meeow me meeeow mew meeoooooow; meow

instances are displayed of lenity, tenderness or friendship; envy
meeeeeoow mew meoooooow me meeeow, meeeooooow me meeeooooow; meow

itself is silent, or joins the general voice of approbation and
meeeow me meeoow, me meoow mew meoooow meeow me meeeeooooow mew

applause.
meeeooow.




When Pericles, the great Athenian statesman and general, was on
Meow Meeoooow, mew meoow Meeeooow meeooooow mew meeeoow, mew me

his death-bed, his surrounding friends, deeming him now
mew meoow-mew, mew meeeoooooow meoooow, meeeeow mew mew

insensible, began to indulge their sorrow for their expiring
meeeeeeeow, meeow me meeeoow meeow meooow mew meoow meooooow

patron, by enumerating his great qualities and successes, his
meooow, me meeeoooooow mew meoow meeooooow mew meeooooow, mew

conquests and victories, the unusual length of his
meeeeooow mew meeeeeeow, mew meeooow meeeow me mew

administration, and his nine trophies erected over the enemies of
meeeeeeoooooow, mew mew meow meeeeeow meoooow meow mew meeeoow me

the republic. YOU FORGET, cries the dying hero, who had heard
mew meooooow. MEW MEEOOW, meeow mew meeow meow, mew mew meoow

all, YOU FORGET THE MOST EMINENT OF MY PRAISES, WHILE YOU DWELL
mew, MEW MEEOOW MEW MEOW MEOOOOW ME ME MEEOOOW, MEEOW MEW MEEOW

SO MUCH ON THOSE VULGAR ADVANTAGES, IN WHICH FORTUNE HAD A
ME MEOW ME MEOOW MEEOOW MEOOOOOOOW, ME MEOOW MEEOOOW MEW M

PRINCIPAL SHARE. YOU HAVE NOT OBSERVED THAT NO CITIZEN HAS EVER
MEEEOOOOW MEEOW. MEW MEOW MEW MEEEEEOW MEOW ME MEOOOOW MEW MEOW

YET WORNE MOURNING ON MY ACCOUNT. [Plut. in Pericle]
MEW MEEOW MEEEOOOW ME ME MEEEOOW. [Meow. me Meeooow]




In men of more ordinary talents and capacity, the social virtues
Me mew me meow meeeeoow meeeeow mew meeeooow, mew meeoow meeeeow

become, if possible, still more essentially requisite; there
meeeow, me meeoooow, meoow meow meoooooooow meeeeooow; meoow

being nothing eminent, in that case, to compensate for the want
meoow meeeoow meeeeow, me meow meow, me meooooooow mew mew meow

of them, or preserve the person from our severest hatred, as well
me meow, me meeeeoow mew meeeow meow mew meeeeeow meeoow, me meow

as contempt. A high ambition, an elevated courage, is apt, says
me meeeeeow. M meow meeeeeow, me meooooow meeooow, me mew, meow

Cicero, in less perfect characters, to degenerate into a
Meooow, me meow meeooow meeeooooow, me meeeooooow meow m

turbulent ferocity. The more social and softer virtues are there
meeeeeoow meeeooow. Mew meow meeoow mew meeoow meeooow mew meeow

chiefly to be regarded. These are always good and amiable [Cic.
meeeeow me me meeeeeow. Meeow mew meeoow meow mew meeeoow [Mew.

de Officiis, lib. I].
me Meeeeoow, mew. M].




The principal advantage, which Juvenal discovers in the extensive
Mew meeeeooow meeooooow, meeow Meeooow meeeeeoow me mew meeooooow

capacity of the human species, is that it renders our benevolence
meooooow me mew meeow meoooow, me meow me meeooow mew meeeeeoooow

also more extensive, and gives us larger opportunities of
meow meow meeeeeoow, mew meoow me meeeow meeeeeoooooow me

spreading our kindly influence than what are indulged to the
meeeeooow mew meooow meeeeeoow meow meow mew meeeooow me mew

inferior creation [Sat. XV. 139 and seq.]. It must, indeed, be
meeoooow meeeeeow [Mew. ME. mew mew mew.]. Me meow, meeoow, me

confessed, that by doing good only, can a man truly enjoy the
meeeeeoow, meow me meoow meow meow, mew m mew meeow meeow mew

advantages of being eminent. His exalted station, of itself but
meeeeoooow me meoow meeeeow. Mew meoooow meoooow, me meeoow mew

the more exposes him to danger and tempest. His sole prerogative
mew meow meeooow mew me meeeow mew meeeeow. Mew meow meeeeeeeeow

is to afford shelter to inferiors, who repose themselves under
me me meeoow meeeeow me meeeeooow, mew meooow meeoooooow meoow

his cover and protection.
mew meoow mew meeeeeooow.




But I forget, that it is not my present business to recommend
Mew M meeeow, meow me me mew me meeeeow meeeeeow me meoooooow

generosity and benevolence, or to paint, in their true colours,
meeeeeeeow mew meeeoooooow, me me meeow, me meoow meow meeeeow,

all the genuine charms of the social virtues. These, indeed,
mew mew meeooow meooow me mew meooow meeeeow. Meoow, meooow,

sufficiently engage every heart, on the first apprehension of
meeeeeeeeoow meeoow meeow meoow, me mew meeow meeeeoooooow me

them; and it is difficult to abstain from some sally of
meow; mew me me meoooooow me meeooow meow meow meeow me

panegyric, as often as they occur in discourse or reasoning. But
meeeeeeow, me meeow me meow meoow me meeooooow me meeeoooow. Mew

our object here being more the speculative, than the practical
mew meeoow meow meoow meow mew meeeeeeooow, meow mew meeeeeeow

part of morals, it will suffice to remark, (what will readily, I
meow me meeoow, me meow meoooow me meooow, (meow meow meeooow, M

believe, be allowed) that no qualities are more intitled to the
meeeeow, me meoooow) meow me meeeoooow mew meow meeoooow me mew

general good-will and approbation of mankind than beneficence and
meeeoow meow-meow mew meeeeeeooow me meeeoow meow meeeeooooow mew

humanity, friendship and gratitude, natural affection and public
meeeeeow, meeeooooow mew meeeoooow, meeeoow meeeoooow mew meooow

spirit, or whatever proceeds from a tender sympathy with others,
meooow, me meeoooow meeeeoow meow m meooow meeoooow meow meeeow,

and a generous concern for our kind and species. These wherever
mew m meeeeeow meeeeow mew mew meow mew meoooow. Meoow meeeeeow

they appear seem to transfuse themselves, in a manner, into each
meow meeeow meow me meeeoooow meooooooow, me m meeoow, meow meow

beholder, and to call forth, in their own behalf, the same
meeoooow, mew me meow meoow, me meoow mew meooow, mew meow

favourable and affectionate sentiments, which they exert on all
meeoooooow mew meeeeeeeooow meeeeeeeow, meeow meow meeow me mew

around.
meooow.










PART II.
MEOW ME.










We may observe that, in displaying the praises of any humane,
Me mew meeeeow meow, me meeeooooow mew meeeeow me mew meeoow,

beneficent man, there is one circumstance which never fails to be
meeeeeeoow mew, meoow me mew meeoooooooow meeow meoow meeow me me

amply insisted on, namely, the happiness and satisfaction,
meoow meooooow me, meooow, mew meeeeeeow mew meeeeoooooow,

derived to society from his intercourse and good offices. To his
meoooow me meeeeow meow mew meeeeeeeeow mew meow meoooow. Me mew

parents, we are apt to say, he endears himself by his pious
meeeoow, me mew mew me mew, me meoooow meeooow me mew meeow

attachment and duteous care still more than by the connexions of
meeeooooow mew meeeoow meow meoow meow meow me mew meeeeoooow me

nature. His children never feel his authority, but when employed
meeoow. Mew meeoooow meoow meow mew meeeoooow, mew meow meeoooow

for their advantage. With him, the ties of love are consolidated
mew meeow meoooooow. Meow mew, mew meow me meow mew meeeeeeeooow

by beneficence and friendship. The ties of friendship approach,
me meoooooooow mew meeeeeeeow. Mew meow me meeeeeeoow meeoooow,

in a fond observance of each obliging office, to those of love
me m meow meeeeeeeow me meow meeeeoow meeeow, me meeow me meow

and inclination. His domestics and dependants have in him a sure
mew meeeoooooow. Mew meeeeeeow mew meeeeeooow meow me mew m meow

resource; and no longer dread the power of fortune, but so far as
meeoooow; mew me meooow meeow mew meeow me meeooow, mew me mew me

she exercises it over him. From him the hungry receive food, the
mew meoooooow me meow mew. Meow mew mew meooow meoooow meow, mew

naked clothing, the ignorant and slothful skill and industry.
meoow meeeooow, mew meeeeoow mew meooooow meeow mew meeeeeow.

Like the sun, an inferior minister of providence he cheers,
Meow mew mew, me meeeooow meeeeoow me meooooooow me meooow,

invigorates, and sustains the surrounding world.
meeeeooooow, mew meooooow mew meeeeooooow meeow.




If confined to private life, the sphere of his activity is
Me meooooow me meoooow meow, mew meeoow me mew meeeeeow me

narrower; but his influence is all benign and gentle. If exalted
meeeeeow; mew mew meeooooow me mew meooow mew meeoow. Me meeooow

into a higher station, mankind and posterity reap the fruit of
meow m meeeow meeooow, meeeeow mew meeeoooow meow mew meeow me

his labours.
mew meoooow.




As these topics of praise never fail to be employed, and with
Me meeow meooow me meeoow meoow meow me me meooooow, mew meow

success, where we would inspire esteem for any one; may it not
meoooow, meeow me meeow meeeeow meooow mew mew mew; mew me mew

thence be concluded, that the utility, resulting from the social
meooow me meeeoooow, meow mew meeooow, meeooooow meow mew meeoow

virtues, forms, at least, a PART of their merit, and is one
meeeoow, meeow, me meoow, m MEOW me meeow meoow, mew me mew

source of that approbation and regard so universally paid to
meeoow me meow meeeeeoooow mew meeeow me meeeeeoooow meow me

them?
meow?




When we recommend even an animal or a plant as USEFUL and
Meow me meeeeooow meow me meeeow me m meoow me MEEOOW mew

BENEFICIAL, we give it an applause and recommendation suited to
MEEOOOOOOW, me meow me me meeeeoow mew meeoooooooooow meeeow me

its nature. As, on the other hand, reflection on the baneful
mew meeeow. Me, me mew meeow meow, meeeeeooow me mew meeeoow

influence of any of these inferior beings always inspires us with
meoooooow me mew me meeow meooooow meooow meeeow meeeooow me meow

the sentiment of aversion. The eye is pleased with the prospect
mew meeeeeeow me meooooow. Mew mew me meeeoow meow mew meeoooow

of corn-fields and loaded vine-yards; horses grazing, and flocks
me meow-meeeow mew meeoow meow-meoow; meeeow meoooow, mew meeoow

pasturing: but flies the view of briars and brambles, affording
meeeeeeow: mew meoow mew meow me meeoow mew meeeooow, meeeeeeow

shelter to wolves and serpents.
meeeeow me meeoow mew meooooow.




A machine, a piece of furniture, a vestment, a house well
M meeeoow, m meeow me meeeeeeow, m meeeeoow, m meeow meow

contrived for use and conveniency, is so far beautiful, and is
meeeeeoow mew mew mew meeooooooow, me me mew meeeoooow, mew me

contemplated with pleasure and approbation. An experienced eye is
meeeooooooow meow meeeeoow mew meeeeeoooow. Me meeeeeeooow mew me

here sensible to many excellencies, which escape persons ignorant
meow meooooow me meow meeeooooooow, meeow meeeow meeeoow meeeeeow

and uninstructed.
mew meeeeeeeooow.




Can anything stronger be said in praise of a profession, such as
Mew meeeeeow meeeeoow me meow me meeeow me m meeeeeooow, meow me

merchandize or manufacture, than to observe the advantages which
meeeoooooow me meeeeeeeeow, meow me meoooow mew meeeooooow meoow

it procures to society; and is not a monk and inquisitor enraged
me meeeooow me meeeeow; mew me mew m meow mew meeeooooow meoooow

when we treat his order as useless or pernicious to mankind?
meow me meoow mew meoow me meeooow me meeoooooow me meeeeow?




The historian exults in displaying the benefit arising from his
Mew meeeeeoow meeeow me meeeooooow mew meoooow meoooow meow mew

labours. The writer of romance alleviates or denies the bad
meeeeow. Mew meeoow me meoooow meeeeeeoow me meeoow mew mew

consequences ascribed to his manner of composition.
meooooooooow meeeeeow me mew meooow me meeeeeeeeow.




In general, what praise is implied in the simple epithet USEFUL!
Me meeooow, meow meeeow me meeeeow me mew meeeow meoooow MEEOOW!

What reproach in the contrary!
Meow meeeeeow me mew meeeeeow!




Your Gods, says Cicero [De Nat. Deor. lib. i.], in opposition to
Meow Meow, meow Meeoow [Me Mew. Meow. mew. m.], me meeeeeeoow me

the Epicureans, cannot justly claim any worship or adoration,
mew Meeeooooow, meeoow meeeow meeow mew meeeeow me meoooooow,

with whatever imaginary perfections you may suppose them endowed.
meow meeeeoow meeeeooow meoooooooow mew mew meoooow meow meeooow.

They are totally useless and inactive. Even the Egyptians, whom
Meow mew meoooow meeeoow mew meeoooow. Meow mew Meeeeeeow, meow

you so much ridicule, never consecrated any animal but on account
mew me meow meooooow, meeow meeeeeeooow mew meeeow mew me meeooow

of its utility.
me mew meeooow.




The sceptics assert [Sext. Emp. adrersus Math. lib. viii.],
Mew meeoooow meeeow [Meow. Mew. meeeeeow Meow. mew. meow.],

though absurdly, that the origin of all religious worship was
meooow meeoooow, meow mew meooow me mew meeeeooow meoooow mew

derived from the utility of inanimate objects, as the sun and
meeooow meow mew meeeoow me meeeeooow meeeeow, me mew mew mew

moon, to the support and well-being of mankind. This is also the
meow, me mew meeeoow mew meow-meeow me meeeeow. Meow me meow mew

common reason assigned by historians, for the deification of
meooow meeeow meeeeoow me meeeooooow, mew mew meeeeeeeoow me

eminent heroes and legislators [Diod. Sic. passim.].
meoooow meooow mew meeooooooow [Meow. Mew. meeeow.].




To plant a tree, to cultivate a field, to beget children;
Me meoow m meow, me meeeeooow m meeow, me meeow meooooow;

meritorious acts, according to the religion of Zoroaster.
meeeeeeeoow meow, meoooooow me mew meeoooow me Meeooooow.




In all determinations of morality, this circumstance of public
Me mew meeeeeooooooow me meeoooow, meow meeoooooooow me meeoow

utility is ever principally in view; and wherever disputes arise,
meeeoow me meow meeeeeeooow me meow; mew meeeeeow meeoooow meoow,

either in philosophy or common life, concerning the bounds of
meeeow me meeeeeeeow me meooow meow, meooooooow mew meooow me

duty, the question cannot, by any means, be decided with greater
meow, mew meeeooow meooow, me mew meoow, me meeeoow meow meeeeow

certainty, than by ascertaining, on any side, the true interests
meeeeooow, meow me meeeeeooooow, me mew meow, mew meow meeeoooow

of mankind. If any false opinion, embraced from appearances, has
me meoooow. Me mew meoow meoooow, meeoooow meow meeeeeeeeow, mew

been found to prevail; as soon as farther experience and sounder
meow meoow me meeeeow; me meow me meeeeow meooooooow mew meeeeow

reasoning have given us juster notions of human affairs, we
meoooooow meow meeow me meeeow meoooow me meoow meoooow, me

retract our first sentiment, and adjust anew the boundaries of
meeeeow mew meeow meeooooow, mew meeoow meow mew meeoooooow me

moral good and evil.
meoow meow mew meow.




Giving alms to common beggars is naturally praised; because it
Meooow meow me meeoow meeooow me meeooooow meeooow; meoooow me

seems to carry relief to the distressed and indigent: but when we
meeow me meeow meeeow me mew meeeeeooow mew meeeeoow: mew meow me

observe the encouragement thence arising to idleness and
meoooow mew meeeeeeooooow meooow meeeoow me meeeeeow mew

debauchery, we regard that species of charity rather as a
meeeeeooow, me meeeow meow meeooow me meeooow meooow me m

weakness than a virtue.
meooooow meow m meeoow.




Tyrannicide, or the assassination of usurpers and oppressive
Meeeeeoooow, me mew meeeeeeeeeeow me meeeeoow mew meeeeeeeow

princes, was highly extolled in ancient times; because it both
meoooow, mew meeeow meooooow me meeooow meoow; meeeeow me meow

freed mankind from many of these monsters, and seemed to keep the
meoow meeooow meow meow me meeow meeeooow, mew meeoow me meow mew

others in awe, whom the sword or poinard could not reach. But
meooow me mew, meow mew meeow me meeeoow meeow mew meeow. Mew

history and experience having since convinced us, that this
meeeeow mew meeeeeooow meeeow meoow meeeeeoow me, meow meow

practice increases the jealousy and cruelty of princes, a
meooooow meeeeeeow mew meooooow mew meoooow me meoooow, m

Timoleon and a Brutus, though treated with indulgence on account
Meeeooow mew m Meeoow, meeoow meeeeow meow meooooooow me meeeeow

of the prejudices of their times, are now considered as very
me mew meeeeoooow me meoow meeow, mew mew meeoooooow me meow

improper models for imitation.
meeeeeow meeeow mew meeooooow.




Liberality in princes is regarded as a mark of beneficence, but
Meeeooooow me meoooow me meeeeeow me m meow me meeeeeoooow, mew

when it occurs, that the homely bread of the honest and
meow me meeoow, meow mew meeeow meeow me mew meeoow mew

industrious is often thereby converted into delicious cates for
meeeeeoooow me meoow meeeeow meeeeeeow meow meeeeeoow meoow mew

the idle and the prodigal, we soon retract our heedless praises.
mew meow mew mew meeeeeow, me meow meeooow mew meeoooow meeeeow.

The regrets of a prince, for having lost a day, were noble and
Mew meeooow me m meeoow, mew meeeow meow m mew, meow meoow mew

generous: but had he intended to have spent it in acts of
meeeooow: mew mew me meeeeoow me meow meeow me me meow me

generosity to his greedy courtiers, it was better lost than
meeoooooow me mew meooow meeooooow, me mew meeoow meow meow

misemployed after that manner.
meeeeeoooow meeow meow meeoow.




Luxury, or a refinement on the pleasures and conveniences of
Meeoow, me m meeeeeeeow me mew meoooooow mew meeeeeooooow me

life, had not long been supposed the source of every corruption
meow, mew mew meow meow meeeooow mew meeoow me meoow meeeeeooow

in government, and the immediate cause of faction, sedition,
me meeeeeeeow, mew mew meeeeooow meoow me meeeoow, meeeeeow,

civil wars, and the total loss of liberty. It was, therefore,
meeow meow, mew mew meoow meow me meoooow. Me mew, meeeeeeow,

universally regarded as a vice, and was an object of declamation
meeeeeoooow meeeeeow me m meow, mew mew me meeoow me meeeeeeooow

to all satirists, and severe moralists. Those, who prove, or
me mew meeeeooow, mew meeoow meeeeeoow. Meeow, mew meoow, me

attempt to prove, that such refinements rather tend to the
meeeeow me meeow, meow meow meeeeeoooow meeeow meow me mew

increase of industry, civility, and arts regulate anew our MORAL
meooooow me meeeooow, meeeooow, mew meow meeoooow meow mew MEEOW

as well as POLITICAL sentiments, and represent, as laudable or
me meow me MEEEEEOOW meeeeeeoow, mew meeeeooow, me meooooow me

innocent, what had formerly been regarded as pernicious and
meeeeeow, meow mew meooooow meow meeeeoow me meeeooooow mew

blameable.
meeeeeeow.




Upon the whole, then, it seems undeniable, THAT nothing can
Meow mew meeow, meow, me meoow meeeeoooow, MEOW meeeeow mew

bestow more merit on any human creature than the sentiment of
meeoow meow meeow me mew meeow meeeeoow meow mew meeeeeoow me

benevolence in an eminent degree; and THAT a PART, at least, of
meeeeeeeoow me me meeeoow meeeow; mew MEOW m MEOW, me meeow, me

its merit arises from its tendency to promote the interests of
mew meoow meooow meow mew meooooow me meeeoow mew meeeeeoow me

our species, and bestow happiness on human society. We carry our
mew meeooow, mew meooow meeooooow me meeow meeeoow. Me meeow mew

view into the salutary consequences of such a character and
meow meow mew meooooow meeoooooooow me meow m meeooooow mew

disposition; and whatever has so benign an influence, and
meeeeooooow; mew meeoooow mew me meeoow me meeeeooow, mew

forwards so desirable an end, is beheld with complacency and
meeeeeow me meeeeeeow me mew, me meeoow meow meoooooooow mew

pleasure. The social virtues are never regarded without their
meeoooow. Mew meeoow meoooow mew meoow meeeeeow meeooow meeow

beneficial tendencies, nor viewed as barren and unfruitful. The
meeeeoooow meooooooow, mew meeeow me meeeow mew meooooooow. Mew

happiness of mankind, the order of society, the harmony of
meoooooow me meeooow, mew meeow me meoooow, mew meeeoow me

families, the mutual support of friends, are always considered as
meeoooow, mew meeeow meeooow me meeeeow, mew meeeow meeoooooow me

the result of their gentle dominion over the breasts of men.
mew meooow me meoow meeoow meooooow meow mew meeeeow me mew.




How considerable a PART of their merit we ought to ascribe to
Mew meeeeeeeeoow m MEOW me meeow meoow me meoow me meeooow me

their utility, will better appear from future disquisitions;
meeow meeeeow, meow meooow meooow meow meooow meeeeeeeeeoow;

[Footnote: Sect. III. and IV.] as well as the reason, why this
[Meeoooow: Meow. MEW. mew ME.] me meow me mew meooow, mew meow

circumstance has such a command over our esteem and approbation.
meeeeeooooow mew meow m meeeoow meow mew meeoow mew meeeeeeeoow.

[Footnote: Sect. V.]
[Meeoooow: Meow. M.]










SECTION III.
MEEEEOW MEW.




OF JUSTICE.
ME MEEEOOW.










PART I.
MEOW M.










THAT Justice is useful to society, and consequently that PART of
MEOW Meoooow me meeoow me meeooow, mew meooooooooow meow MEOW me

its merit, at least, must arise from that consideration, it would
mew meeow, me meoow, meow meeow meow meow meeeeeeeeeoow, me meeow

be a superfluous undertaking to prove. That public utility is the
me m meoooooooow meeeeeeeoow me meoow. Meow meeeow meoooow me mew

SOLE origin of justice, and that reflections on the beneficial
MEOW meooow me meoooow, mew meow meeeeooooow me mew meeoooooow

consequences of this virtue are the SOLE foundation of its merit;
meeeeeeoooow me meow meooow mew mew MEOW meeeeeooow me mew meeow;

this proposition, being more curious and important, will better
meow meeeoooooow, meeow meow meeeoow mew meeeeeeow, meow meeoow

deserve our examination and enquiry.
meeeoow mew meeeeeeeoow mew meeooow.




Let us suppose that nature has bestowed on the human race such
Mew me meeeeow meow meeeow mew meeeeoow me mew meeow meow meow

profuse ABUNDANCE of all EXTERNAL conveniencies, that, without
meoooow MEEEEOOOW me mew MEOOOOOW meeeeeeooooow, meow, meeooow

any uncertainty in the event, without any care or industry on our
mew meeooooooow me mew meoow, meeeoow mew meow me meooooow me mew

part, every individual finds himself fully provided with whatever
meow, meeow meeeeeeoow meoow meeeeow meoow meooooow meow meeeooow

his most voracious appetites can want, or luxurious imagination
mew meow meeeeeeow meoooooow mew meow, me meeooooow meeeeeoooow

wish or desire. His natural beauty, we shall suppose, surpasses
meow me meooow. Mew meeeoow meooow, me meoow meeeeow, meeeeeoow

all acquired ornaments: the perpetual clemency of the seasons
mew meeoooow meeeeeeow: mew meeooooow meooooow me mew meoooow

renders useless all clothes or covering: the raw herbage affords
meeooow meeeeow mew meeeoow me meeeooow: mew mew meeooow meeeoow

him the most delicious fare; the clear fountain, the richest
mew mew meow meeeeooow meow; mew meoow meeeeoow, mew meeeeow

beverage. No laborious occupation required: no tillage: no
meeeeeow. Me meeeeooow meeeeeeoow meooooow: me meeeeow: me

navigation. Music, poetry, and contemplation form his sole
meeeeoooow. Meeow, meeoow, mew meeooooooooow meow mew meow

business: conversation, mirth, and friendship his sole amusement.
meooooow: meeeeeeeeoow, meoow, mew meooooooow mew meow meeeeooow.

It seems evident that, in such a happy state, every other social
Me meeow meeooow meow, me meow m meeow meoow, meeow meoow meeeow

virtue would flourish, and receive tenfold increase; but the
meeeow meeow meeeooow, mew meeooow meeooow meeoooow; mew mew

cautious, jealous virtue of justice would never once have been
meeeeeow, meeeoow meooow me meeeeow meeow meeow meow meow meow

dreamed of. For what purpose make a partition of goods, where
meeeeow me. Mew meow meeeeow meow m meeeeeeow me meoow, meeow

every one has already more than enough? Why give rise to
meoow mew mew meoooow meow meow meeeow? Mew meow meow me

property, where there cannot possibly be any injury? Why call
meooooow, meoow meeow meeoow meooooow me mew meeeow? Mew meow

this object MINE, when upon the seizing of it by another, I need
meow meeoow MEOW, meow meow mew meeeoow me me me meeeoow, M meow

but stretch out my hand to possess myself to what is equally
mew meoooow mew me meow me meeooow meeoow me meow me meoooow

valuable? Justice, in that case, being totally useless, would be
meeoooow? Meeeeow, me meow meow, meeow meeooow meoooow, meoow me

an idle ceremonial, and could never possibly have place in the
me meow meeeeoooow, mew meoow meeow meeeeeow meow meeow me mew

catalogue of virtues.
meeooooow me meeeoow.




We see, even in the present necessitous condition of mankind,
Me mew, meow me mew meoooow meeeeeeeoow meeeeeoow me meeooow,

that, wherever any benefit is bestowed by nature in an unlimited
meow, meeeeeow mew meeeoow me meeoooow me meooow me me meeeeeeow

abundance, we leave it always in common among the whole human
meoooooow, me meoow me meeeow me meooow meoow mew meeow meeow

race, and make no subdivisions of right and property. Water and
meow, mew meow me meeeeoooooow me meoow mew meooooow. Meoow mew

air, though the most necessary of all objects, are not challenged
mew, meeoow mew meow meeooooow me mew meeeoow, mew mew meeeeeeoow

as the property of individuals; nor can any man commit injustice
me mew meeeeoow me meoooooooow; mew mew mew mew meooow meeeoooow

by the most lavish use and enjoyment of these blessings. In
me mew meow meeoow mew mew meeeeeeow me meoow meeeeeoow. Me

fertile extensive countries, with few inhabitants, land is
meoooow meeooooow meeeoooow, meow mew meeeeooooow, meow me

regarded on the same footing. And no topic is so much insisted on
meeoooow me mew meow meeooow. Mew me meeow me me meow meeoooow me

by those, who defend the liberty of the seas, as the unexhausted
me meoow, mew meeoow mew meeooow me mew meow, me mew meeeeeeooow

use of them in navigation. Were the advantages, procured by
mew me meow me meeeeeeeow. Meow mew meooooooow, meeeooow me

navigation, as inexhaustible, these reasoners had never had any
meeeeeeeow, me meeeeeeooooow, meeow meoooooow mew meeow mew mew

adversaries to refute; nor had any claims ever been advanced of a
meeeeooooow me meooow; mew mew mew meeoow meow meow meeeooow me m

separate, exclusive dominion over the ocean.
meeoooow, meeeeooow meeeeoow meow mew meeow.




It may happen, in some countries, at some periods, that there be
Me mew meeoow, me meow meeeeeeow, me meow meeeeow, meow meoow me

established a property in water, none in land [Footnote: Genesis,
meeeeooooow m meooooow me meeow, meow me meow [Meeoooow: Meeooow,

cbaps. xiii. and xxi.]; if the latter be in greater abundance
meoow. meow. mew mew.]; me mew meeoow me me meeooow meeeeeoow

than can be used by the inhabitants, and the former be found,
meow mew me meow me mew meeeeeeeeow, mew mew meooow me meoow,

with difficulty, and in very small quantities.
meow meeeooooow, mew me meow meeow meeeeeooow.




Again; suppose, that, though the necessities of human race
Meoow; meeeoow, meow, meeeow mew meeeeeeooow me meeow meow

continue the same as at present, yet the mind is so enlarged, and
meeeeeow mew meow me me meeeeow, mew mew meow me me meooooow, mew

so replete with friendship and generosity, that every man has the
me meeeoow meow meeeeoooow mew meeeeeeoow, meow meeow mew mew mew

utmost tenderness for every man, and feels no more concern for
meeoow meeeeeeoow mew meoow mew, mew meoow me meow meeeeow mew

his own interest than for that of his fellows; it seems evident,
mew mew meooooow meow mew meow me mew meeooow; me meoow meeeoow,

that the use of justice would, in this case, be suspended by such
meow mew mew me meeeoow meoow, me meow meow, me meeeeeeow me meow

an extensive benevolence, nor would the divisions and barriers of
me meeeeeoow meeeeeeeoow, mew meeow mew meoooooow mew meeoooow me

property and obligation have ever been thought of. Why should I
meooooow mew meooooooow meow meow meow meeeeow me. Mew meeoow M

bind another, by a deed or promise, to do me any good office,
meow meeeoow, me m meow me meeooow, me me me mew meow meooow,

when I know that he is already prompted, by the strongest
meow M meow meow me me meoooow meeeeeow, me mew meeeeeeow

inclination, to seek my happiness, and would, of himself, perform
meeeeeoooow, me meow me meoooooow, mew meeow, me meeeeow, meoooow

the desired service; except the hurt, he thereby receives, be
mew meoooow meeooow; meeeow mew meow, me meeeeow meooooow, me

greater than the benefit accruing to me? in which case, he knows,
meoooow meow mew meeooow meeeooow me me? me meeow meow, me meeow,

that, from my innate humanity and friendship, I should be the
meow, meow me meooow meeoooow mew meeeeeeoow, M meooow me mew

first to oppose myself to his imprudent generosity. Why raise
meoow me meooow meeoow me mew meeeeooow meeeeeeeow. Mew meeow

landmarks between my neighbour's field and mine, when my heart
meeeeeeow meeooow me meeooooow'm meeow mew meow, meow me meeow

has made no division between our interests; but shares all his
mew meow me meooooow meoooow mew meeeoooow; mew meeoow mew mew

joys and sorrows with the same force and vivacity as if
meow mew meeeeow meow mew meow meeow mew meeeeoow me me

originally my own? Every man, upon this supposition, being a
meeeeeeoow me mew? Meeow mew, meow meow meeeeeoooow, meoow m

second self to another, would trust all his interests to the
meooow meow me meoooow, meeow meeow mew mew meeeeeoow me mew

discretion of every man; without jealousy, without partition,
meeeooooow me meeow mew; meoooow meeeooow, meeeoow meeeeeoow,

without distinction. And the whole human race would form only one
meeeeow meoooooooow. Mew mew meoow meoow meow meeow meow meow mew

family; where all would lie in common, and be used freely,
meeoow; meoow mew meeow mew me meeoow, mew me meow meeoow,

without regard to property; but cautiously too, with as entire
meeooow meeeow me meeeooow; mew meeeeeeeow mew, meow me meooow

regard to the necessities of each individual, as if our own
meeoow me mew meoooooooow me meow meeeeeooow, me me mew mew

interests were most intimately concerned.
meeeeeeow meow meow meeeooooow meeeoooow.




In the present disposition of the human heart, it would, perhaps,
Me mew meoooow meoooooooow me mew meeow meoow, me meeow, meeeoow,

be difficult to find complete instances of such enlarged
me meeeeeoow me meow meeeooow meeeeooow me meow meeeeeow

affections; but still we may observe, that the case of families
meooooooow; mew meeow me mew meeeoow, meow mew meow me meeeooow

approaches towards it; and the stronger the mutual benevolence is
meeeeeeoow meeooow me; mew mew meeeooow mew meooow meeeoooooow me

among the individuals, the nearer it approaches; till all
meeow mew meeeeooooow, mew meeoow me meeeeeeoow; meow mew

distinction of property be, in a great measure, lost and
meeeeooooow me meooooow me, me m meeow meeeeow, meow mew

confounded among them. Between married persons, the cement of
meooooooow meeow meow. Meeeeow meeeeow meeeoow, mew meeeow me

friendship is by the laws supposed so strong as to abolish all
meeeooooow me me mew meow meeeeoow me meooow me me meeeeow mew

division of possessions; and has often, in reality, the force
meeeeoow me meeeeeoooow; mew mew meeow, me meoooow, mew meeow

ascribed to it. And it is observable, that, during the ardour of
meeeeeow me me. Mew me me meeeeeeeow, meow, meooow mew meeoow me

new enthusiasms, when every principle is inflamed into
mew meeeoooooow, meow meeow meeeeeoow me meeeeeow meow

extravagance, the community of goods has frequently been
meooooooooow, mew meeooooow me meoow mew meeeeeeeow meow

attempted; and nothing but experience of its inconveniencies,
meeeeooow; mew meeooow mew meeeooooow me mew meeeeeeeeeeeeow,

from the returning or disguised selfishness of men, could make
meow mew meeeeooow me meeeeooow meeeeooooow me mew, meoow meow

the imprudent fanatics adopt anew the ideas of justice and of
mew meoooooow meooooow meeow meow mew meoow me meoooow mew me

separate property. So true is it, that this virtue derives its
meooooow meooooow. Me meow me me, meow meow meooow meoooow mew

existence entirely from its necessary USE to the intercourse and
meeeeeoow meeeeeow meow mew meeeeooow MEW me mew meeooooooow mew

social state of mankind.
meeeow meeow me meeeeow.




To make this truth more evident, let us reverse the foregoing
Me meow meow meeow meow meeeeow, mew me meeooow mew meoooooow

suppositions; and carrying everything to the opposite extreme,
meooooooooow; mew meeeooow meeeeeeoow me mew meeeooow meoooow,

consider what would be the effect of these new situations.
meeeeeow meow meeow me mew meooow me meeow mew meeeeeeeow.

Suppose a society to fall into such want of all common
Meeeeow m meeeeow me meow meow meow meow me mew meeeow

necessaries, that the utmost frugality and industry cannot
meeeeeeeeow, meow mew meooow meeooooow mew meeoooow meeeow

preserve the greater number from perishing, and the whole from
meeoooow mew meoooow meeeow meow meoooooow, mew mew meoow meow

extreme misery; it will readily, I believe, be admitted, that the
meeooow meooow; me meow meeooow, M meeooow, me meeeeoow, meow mew

strict laws of justice are suspended, in such a pressing
meeoow meow me meeooow mew meeeeooow, me meow m meeeeeow

emergence, and give place to the stronger motives of necessity
meeooooow, mew meow meoow me mew meeoooow meoooow me meeeeeeow

and self-preservation. Is it any crime, after a shipwreck, to
mew meow-meeeooooooow. Me me mew meoow, meeow m meeeeooow, me

seize whatever means or instrument of safety one can lay hold of,
meoow meeeeoow meeow me meeeeeeeow me meeoow mew mew mew meow me,

without regard to former limitations of property? Or if a city
meeeoow meeoow me meooow meeeeooooow me meeeeoow? Me me m meow

besieged were perishing with hunger; can we imagine, that men
meeeeeow meow meeooooow meow meeeow; mew me meeeoow, meow mew

will see any means of preservation before them, and lose their
meow mew mew meoow me meeeeeeeooow meooow meow, mew meow meoow

lives, from a scrupulous regard to what, in other situations,
meoow, meow m meeeeoooow meooow me meow, me meeow meeeeeooow,

would be the rules of equity and justice? The use and tendency of
meoow me mew meoow me meeoow mew meeooow? Mew mew mew meeeeoow me

that virtue is to procure happiness and security, by preserving
meow meooow me me meeeeow meoooooow mew meeeeeow, me meeeeeeeow

order in society: but where the society is ready to perish from
meoow me meeeoow: mew meoow mew meoooow me meoow me meooow meow

extreme necessity, no greater evil can be dreaded from violence
meoooow meeeeeoow, me meoooow meow mew me meeooow meow meeeeeow

and injustice; and every man may now provide for himself by all
mew meeooooow; mew meeow mew mew mew meeooow mew meeooow me mew

the means, which prudence can dictate, or humanity permit. The
mew meeow, meeow meeeeeow mew meeeoow, me meeoooow meooow. Mew

public, even in less urgent necessities, opens granaries, without
meooow, meow me meow meeeow meeeeeeeoow, meeow meeeeeoow, meoooow

the consent of proprietors; as justly supposing, that the
mew meeeeow me meeeeeeeoow; me meooow meeeeeoow, meow mew

authority of magistracy may, consistent with equity, extend so
meeeeeeow me meeeeeeoow mew, meeeooooow meow meeoow, meeoow me

far: but were any number of men to assemble, without the tie of
mew: mew meow mew meeeow me mew me meeoooow, meoooow mew mew me

laws or civil jurisdiction; would an equal partition of bread in
meow me meoow meeoooooooow; meeow me meeow meeeeeoow me meoow me

a famine, though effected by power and even violence, be regarded
m meeoow, meooow meeeeeow me meeow mew meow meeeeeow, me meeeeoow

as criminal or injurious?
me meeeooow me meeooooow?




Suppose likewise, that it should be a virtuous man's fate to fall
Meeooow meooooow, meow me meeoow me m meeeeoow mew'm meow me meow

into the society of ruffians, remote from the protection of laws
meow mew meeooow me meeeeeow, meeeow meow mew meooooooow me meow

and government; what conduct must he embrace in that melancholy
mew meeeeeeoow; meow meoooow meow me meeeoow me meow meeeeeeoow

situation? He sees such a desperate rapaciousness prevail; such a
meeeoooow? Me meow meow m meeeeeoow meeeoooooooow meeeoow; meow m

disregard to equity, such contempt of order, such stupid
meeeeooow me meeoow, meow meeoooow me meoow, meow meeoow

blindness to future consequences, as must immediately have the
meeeeeoow me meooow meeoooooooow, me meow meoooooooow meow mew

most tragical conclusion, and must terminate in destruction to
meow meooooow meeeeeeeow, mew meow meeeeeeow me meoooooooow me

the greater number, and in a total dissolution of society to the
mew meoooow meooow, mew me m meoow meeooooooow me meeeeow me mew

rest. He, meanwhile, can have no other expedient than to arm
meow. Me, meeooooow, mew meow me meoow meeeeooow meow me mew

himself, to whomever the sword he seizes, or the buckler, may
meeooow, me meeeeoow mew meeow me meeoow, me mew meeeeow, mew

belong: To make provision of all means of defence and security:
meooow: Me meow meeeeooow me mew meoow me meoooow mew meeoooow:

And his particular regard to justice being no longer of use to
Mew mew meeeeeooow meooow me meeeoow meoow me meeoow me mew me

his own safety or that of others, he must consult the dictates of
mew mew meeeow me meow me meooow, me meow meeeeow mew meeeooow me

self-preservation alone, without concern for those who no longer
meow-meooooooooow meoow, meeeeow meoooow mew meeow mew me meooow

merit his care and attention.
meeow mew meow mew meeeeeoow.




When any man, even in political society, renders himself by his
Meow mew mew, meow me meoooooow meoooow, meeeeow meeeoow me mew

crimes, obnoxious to the public, he is punished by the laws in
meeeow, meeooooow me mew meeoow, me me meeeooow me mew meow me

his goods and person; that is, the ordinary rules of justice are,
mew meoow mew meooow; meow me, mew meeoooow meeow me meeeoow mew,

with regard to him, suspended for a moment, and it becomes
meow meeoow me mew, meeeeeoow mew m meooow, mew me meeeoow

equitable to inflict on him, for the BENEFIT of society, what
meeeoooow me meoooow me mew, mew mew MEEEEOW me meoooow, meow

otherwise he could not suffer without wrong or injury.
meeeeeoow me meoow mew meooow meoooow meeow me meooow.




The rage and violence of public war; what is it but a suspension
Mew meow mew meeeeeow me meooow mew; meow me me mew m meeeeeeoow

of justice among the warring parties, who perceive, that this
me meeeoow meeow mew meeeeow meoooow, mew meeeeoow, meow meow

virtue is now no longer of any USE or advantage to them? The laws
meooow me mew me meooow me mew MEW me meoooooow me meow? Mew meow

of war, which then succeed to those of equity and justice, are
me mew, meoow meow meeooow me meoow me meooow mew meoooow, mew

rules calculated for the ADVANTAGE and UTILTIY of that particular
meeow meooooooow mew mew MEOOOOOOW mew MEEOOOW me meow meeoooooow

state, in which men are now placed. And were a civilized nation
meoow, me meoow mew mew mew meooow. Mew meow m meeeoooow meeeow

engaged with barbarians, who observed no rules even of war, the
meeeoow meow meeeeoooow, mew meeeeeow me meeow meow me mew, mew

former must also suspend their observance of them, where they no
meeoow meow meow meoooow meeow meeeooooow me meow, meoow meow me

longer serve to any purpose; and must render every action or
meeeow meeow me mew meeooow; mew meow meeoow meeow meooow me

recounter as bloody and pernicious as possible to the first
meoooooow me meooow mew meeeeeeeow me meeeooow me mew meeow

aggressors.
meeeooooow.




Thus, the rules of equity or justice depend entirely on the
Meow, mew meoow me meooow me meeooow meeeow meeeeoow me mew

particular state and condition in which men are placed, and owe
meeoooooow meeow mew meeeeooow me meoow mew mew meeoow, mew mew

their origin and existence to that utility, which results to the
meoow meeoow mew meeeoooow me meow meeeoow, meeow meeooow me mew

public from their strict and regular observance. Reverse, in any
meooow meow meoow meeoow mew meeooow meeeooooow. Meeeeow, me mew

considerable circumstance, the condition of men: Produce extreme
meeeeeeeeoow meeeeeeeeeow, mew meeeoooow me mew: Meeeeow meeooow

abundance or extreme necessity: Implant in the human breast
meoooooow me meeeoow meeeeeoow: Meeeeow me mew meoow meeeow

perfect moderation and humanity, or perfect rapaciousness and
meeooow meeeeeeeow mew meeoooow, me meoooow meeeeeeooooow mew

malice: By rendering justice totally USELESS, you thereby totally
meeeow: Me meeeeeoow meeeeow meeooow MEEEOOW, mew meoooow meeeeow

destroy its essence, and suspend its obligation upon mankind. The
meoooow mew meoooow, mew meeeoow mew meeeeeeeow meow meeeeow. Mew

common situation of society is a medium amidst all these
meeoow meeeeooow me meeooow me m meeeow meeoow mew meoow

extremes. We are naturally partial to ourselves, and to our
meeoooow. Me mew meoooooow meeeeow me meeooooow, mew me mew

friends; but are capable of learning the advantage resulting from
meeeoow; mew mew meeeoow me meeeeoow mew meeeoooow meeeeooow meow

a more equitable conduct. Few enjoyments are given us from the
m meow meoooooow meeeeow. Mew meeeeoooow mew meoow me meow mew

open and liberal hand of nature; but by art, labour, and
meow mew meeeoow meow me meeoow; mew me mew, meooow, mew

industry, we can extract them in great abundance. Hence the ideas
meeoooow, me mew meoooow meow me meoow meeeeooow. Meoow mew meeow

of property become necessary in all civil society: Hence justice
me meeeeoow meeeow meeooooow me mew meeow meeeoow: Meoow meeooow

derives its usefulness to the public: And hence alone arises its
meeeeow mew meeeooooow me mew meeeow: Mew meeow meoow meeoow mew

merit and moral obligation.
meoow mew meeow meeeeeeoow.




These conclusions are so natural and obvious, that they have not
Meoow meeeoooooow mew me meoooow mew meeooow, meow meow meow mew

escaped even the poets, in their descriptions of the felicity
meoooow meow mew meeow, me meoow meeoooooooow me mew meeeeoow

attending the golden age or the reign of Saturn. The seasons, in
meoooooow mew meooow mew me mew meeow me Meeeow. Mew meeooow, me

that first period of nature, were so temperate, if we credit
meow meoow meooow me meeoow, meow me meeeeooow, me me meeoow

these agreeable fictions, that there was no necessity for men to
meoow meeeeeoow meeoooow, meow meeow mew me meeeeooow mew mew me

provide themselves with clothes and houses, as a security against
meoooow meooooooow meow meeeeow mew meooow, me m meeoooow meeeoow

the violence of heat and cold: The rivers flowed with wine and
mew meeeeeow me meow mew meow: Mew meooow meeeow meow meow mew

milk: The oaks yielded honey; and nature spontaneously produced
meow: Mew meow meeeeow meeow; mew meeoow meeeoooooooow meeeeeow

her greatest delicacies. Nor were these the chief advantages of
mew meeeeeow meeeeeeeow. Mew meow meeow mew meoow meeeeeeeow me

that happy age. Tempests were not alone removed from nature; but
meow meoow mew. Meeeeeow meow mew meoow meoooow meow meeoow; mew

those more furious tempests were unknown to human breasts, which
meeow meow meeeeow meeeeoow meow meeooow me meeow meeeeow, meoow

now cause such uproar, and engender such confusion. Avarice,
mew meoow meow meeoow, mew meooooow meow meeeeeoow. Meoooow,

ambition, cruelty, selfishness, were never heard of: Cordial
meooooow, meeeoow, meeeoooooow, meow meeow meeow me: Meeooow

affection, compassion, sympathy, were the only movements with
meeeoooow, meeeooooow, meooooow, meow mew meow meeeeeeow meow

which the mind was yet acquainted. Even the punctilious
meoow mew meow mew mew meeeeoooow. Meow mew meoooooooow

distinction of MINE and THINE was banished from among the happy
meeeeeeeoow me MEOW mew MEOOW mew meeeeoow meow meeow mew meeow

race of mortals, and carried with it the very notion of property
meow me meoooow, mew meeooow meow me mew meow meeoow me meooooow

and obligation, justice and injustice.
mew meeeooooow, meoooow mew meeeeooow.




This POETICAL fiction of the GOLDEN AGE, is in some respects, of
Meow MEEEOOOW meeeoow me mew MEOOOW MEW, me me meow meooooow, me

a piece with the PHILOSOPHICAL fiction of the STATE OF NATURE;
m meeow meow mew MEEEEEOOOOOOW meeeoow me mew MEOOW ME MEEOOW;

only that the former is represented as the most charming and most
meow meow mew meeoow me meoooooooow me mew meow meeeeoow mew meow

peaceable condition, which can possibly be imagined; whereas the
meeeeeoow meeeeeoow, meoow mew meeeeeow me meeeeoow; meoooow mew

latter is painted out as a state of mutual war and violence,
meeeow me meeeoow mew me m meoow me meooow mew mew meeeooow,

attended with the most extreme necessity. On the first origin of
meeeeeow meow mew meow meeeoow meeeeeeow. Me mew meoow meeoow me

mankind, we are told, their ignorance and savage nature were so
meeeeow, me mew meow, meeow meeeeeoow mew meeoow meeeow meow me

prevalent, that they could give no mutual trust, but must each
meeeeeoow, meow meow meoow meow me meeoow meoow, mew meow meow

depend upon himself and his own force or cunning for protection
meeoow meow meoooow mew mew mew meoow me meeeoow mew meooooooow

and security. No law was heard of: No rule of justice known: No
mew meeeeeow. Me mew mew meeow me: Me meow me meoooow meoow: Me

distinction of property regarded: Power was the only measure of
meeeeeoooow me meeeeoow meeeeoow: Meeow mew mew meow meoooow me

right; and a perpetual war of all against all was the result of
meeow; mew m meeeeooow mew me mew meeeeow mew mew mew meooow me

men's untamed selfishness and barbarity.
mew'm meeeoow meeooooooow mew meeeoooow.




[Footnote: This fiction of a state of nature, as a state of war,
[Meeeeeow: Meow meeeoow me m meeow me meeeow, me m meoow me mew,

was not first started by Mr. Hobbes, as is commonly imagined.
mew mew meeow meeeoow me Me. Meeeow, me me meeoooow meooooow.

Plato endeavours to refute an hypothesis very like it in the
Meoow meeeooooow me meeeow me meeeeeeeow meow meow me me mew

second, third, and fourth books de republica. Cicero, on the
meooow, meeow, mew meeeow meeow me meeeeooow. Meeeow, me mew

contrary, supposes it certain and universally acknowledged in the
meeeeoow, meeeeoow me meeeoow mew meeeeooooow meeeooooooow me mew

following passage. 'Quis enim vestrum, judices, ignorat, ita
meeeeeoow meeeoow. 'Meow meow meeooow, meeeeow, meeeeow, mew

naturam rerum tulisse, ut quodam tempore homines, nondum neque
meoooow meoow meoooow, me meeoow meoooow meeeoow, meeoow meoow

naturali neque civili jure descripto, fusi per agros ac dispersi
meeeeeow meoow meeeow meow meeooooow, meow mew meoow me meeeeoow

vagarentur tantumque haberent quantum manu ac viribus, per caedem
meeeooooow meoooooow meooooow meeooow meow me meoooow, mew meooow

ac vulnera, aut eripere aut retinere potuissent? Qui igitur primi
me meeeoow, mew meeeoow mew meeoooow meeoooooow? Mew meeoow meeow

virtute & consilio praestanti extiterunt, ii perspecto genere
meoooow & meeoooow meeeooooow meeeeeeeow, me meeooooow meeoow

humanae docilitatis atque ingenii, dissipatos unum in locum
meeeoow meoooooooow meoow meeeeow, meeeeeeeow meow me meoow

congregarunt, eosque ex feritate illa ad justitiam ac
meeeooooooow, meeoow me meeeooow meow me meeooooow me

mansuetudinem transduxerunt. Tum res ad communem utilitatem, quas
meeeeeeooooow meeeeeeeeeeow. Mew mew me meooooow meeeeeeeow, meow

publicas appellamus, tum conventicula hominum, quae postea
meeoooow meeeooooow, mew meooooooooow meeeoow, meow meeoow

civitates nominatae sunt, tum domicilia conjuncta, quas urbes
meeeeeeow meeeeooow meow, mew meoooooow meoooooow, meow meeow

dicamus, invento & divino & humano jure moenibus sepserunt. Atque
meoooow, meeooow & meeoow & meeeow meow meeoooow meeeeeoow. Meeow

inter hanc vitam, perpolitam humanitate, & llam immanem, nihil
meoow meow meeow, meooooooow meooooooow, & meow meoooow, meeow

tam interest quam JUS atque VIS. Horum utro uti nolimus, altero
mew meeeeeow meow MEW meoow MEW. Meeow meow mew meeeeow, meeoow

est utendum. Vim volumus extingui. Jus valeat necesse est, idi
mew meoooow. Mew meeeoow meeoooow. Mew meeoow meeooow mew, mew

est, judicia, quibus omne jus continetur. Judicia displicent, ant
mew, meoooow, meeeow meow mew meeeeoooow. Meeooow meeeeoooow, mew

nulla sunt. Vis dominetur necesse est. Haec vident omnes.' Pro
meeow meow. Mew meeeeeeow meoooow mew. Meow meeeow meeow.' Mew

Sext. sec. 42.]
Meow. mew. me.]




Whether such a condition of human nature could ever exist, or if
Meoooow meow m meeeeooow me meeow meeoow meeow meow meeow, me me

it did, could continue so long as to merit the appellation of a
me mew, meoow meeoooow me meow me me meeow mew meeooooooow me m

STATE, may justly be doubted. Men are necessarily born in a
MEOOW, mew meooow me meoooow. Mew mew meeeeeeooow meow me m

family-society, at least; and are trained up by their parents to
meeoow-meoooow, me meoow; mew mew meeooow me me meeow meeeeow me

some rule of conduct and behaviour. But this must be admitted,
meow meow me meoooow mew meeeeeoow. Mew meow meow me meeoooow,

that, if such a state of mutual war and violence was ever real,
meow, me meow m meoow me meooow mew mew meeeooow mew meow meow,

the suspension of all laws of justice, from their absolute
mew meeeeeeoow me mew meow me meeooow, meow meeow meooooow

inutility, is a necessary and infallible consequence.
meeeeooow, me m meeeeeeow mew meeeeoooow meeeeeoooow.




The more we vary our views of human life, and the newer and more
Mew meow me meow mew meoow me meoow meow, mew mew meoow mew meow

unusual the lights are in which we survey it, the more shall we
meeeeow mew meeeow mew me meoow me meeoow me, mew meow meoow me

be convinced, that the origin here assigned for the virtue of
me meoooooow, meow mew meeoow meow meeeeeow mew mew meeoow me

justice is real and satisfactory.
meeeeow me meow mew meeeeoooooow.




Were there a species of creatures intermingled with men, which,
Meow meeow m meeeeow me meeeeooow meeeeeeeeoow meow mew, meeow,

though rational, were possessed of such inferior strength, both
meooow meeoooow, meow meeooooow me meow meeeeeow meooooow, meow

of body and mind, that they were incapable of all resistance, and
me meow mew meow, meow meow meow meoooooow me mew meooooooow, mew

could never, upon the highest provocation, make us feel the
meeow meeow, meow mew meeeeow meeeeeeooow, meow me meow mew

effects of their resentment; the necessary consequence, I think,
meeeoow me meeow meeeeeeoow; mew meeeoooow meeeeeoooow, M meeow,

is that we should be bound by the laws of humanity to give gentle
me meow me meooow me meeow me mew meow me meeoooow me meow meeeow

usage to these creatures, but should not, properly speaking, lie
meoow me meoow meeeeooow, mew meooow mew, meeeooow meeoooow, mew

under any restraint of justice with regard to them, nor could
meeow mew meeeeeeow me meeeoow meow meeoow me meow, mew meeow

they possess any right or property, exclusive of such arbitrary
meow meeeoow mew meoow me meeeooow, meeooooow me meow meeeoooow

lords. Our intercourse with them could not be called society,
meeow. Mew meoooooooow meow meow meeow mew me meooow meeooow,

which supposes a degree of equality; but absolute command on the
meoow meeeeeow m meeoow me meooooow; mew meeoooow meeeeow me mew

one side, and servile obedience on the other. Whatever we covet,
mew meow, mew meeooow meoooooow me mew meeow. Meeoooow me meeow,

they must instantly resign: Our permission is the only tenure, by
meow meow meeeoooow meooow: Mew meeeeeeeow me mew meow meeoow, me

which they hold their possessions: Our compassion and kindness
meoow meow meow meoow meeeeeeeeow: Mew meeeeoooow mew meeoooow

the only check, by which they curb our lawless will: And as no
mew meow meoow, me meoow meow meow mew meoooow meow: Mew me me

inconvenience ever results from the exercise of a power, so
meeeeeoooooow meow meeeeow meow mew meeeooow me m meoow, me

firmly established in nature, the restraints of justice and
meeeow meeeeeeeoow me meooow, mew meeeooooow me meeooow mew

property, being totally USELESS, would never have place in so
meeeeoow, meeow meeooow MEEOOOW, meeow meeow meow meeow me me

unequal a confederacy.
meeooow m meeeeooooow.




This is plainly the situation of men, with regard to animals; and
Meow me meeeeow mew meeeoooow me mew, meow meeoow me meoooow; mew

how far these may be said to possess reason, I leave it to others
mew mew meeow mew me meow me meeeoow meeoow, M meeow me me meooow

to determine. The great superiority of civilized Europeans above
me meoooooow. Mew meoow meeeeeeeeow me meeeoooow Meeeeooow meoow

barbarous Indians, tempted us to imagine ourselves on the same
meeeeeoow Meeooow, meeeeow me me meeeeow meeeoooow me mew meow

footing with regard to them, and made us throw off all restraints
meeooow meow meooow me meow, mew meow me meoow mew mew meeeeeooow

of justice, and even of humanity, in our treatment of them. In
me meeeoow, mew meow me meeoooow, me mew meeeeeoow me meow. Me

many nations, the female sex are reduced to like slavery, and are
meow meeeeow, mew meooow mew mew meoooow me meow meeeoow, mew mew

rendered incapable of all property, in opposition to their lordly
meooooow meoooooow me mew meooooow, me meeeooooow me meeow meeoow

masters. But though the males, when united, have in all countries
meoooow. Mew meeeow mew meoow, meow meeeow, meow me mew meeeeeeow

bodily force sufficient to maintain this severe tyranny, yet such
meeeow meeow meeeeeeoow me meeeeoow meow meeeow meeeoow, mew meow

are the insinuation, address, and charms of their fair companions,
mew mew meoooooooow, meeeoow, mew meooow me meeow meow meeeooooow,

that women are commonly able to break the confederacy, and share
meow meoow mew meeoooow meow me meoow mew meeeeeeeeow, mew meeow

with the other sex in all the rights and privileges of society.
meow mew meoow mew me mew mew meeeow mew meeeeeooow me meeeeow.




Were the human species so framed by nature as that each
Meow mew meeow meeeeow me meooow me meooow me meow meow

individual possessed within himself every faculty, requisite both
meeeeeeeow meeeeeoow meeoow meeooow meoow meeeeow, meeeeeeow meow

for his own preservation and for the propagation of his kind:
mew mew mew meeeeeeeeeow mew mew mew meeooooooow me mew meow:

Were all society and intercourse cut off between man and man, by
Meow mew meeeeow mew meeeeeoooow mew mew meeeeow mew mew mew, me

the primary intention of the supreme Creator: It seems evident,
mew meeooow meeeeeeow me mew meoooow Meeeeow: Me meoow meeeeow,

that so solitary a being would be as much incapable of justice,
meow me meeeeeow m meeow meeow me me meow meeeeeoow me meoooow,

as of social discourse and conversation. Where mutual regards and
me me meooow meeeoooow mew meeeeeeeeeow. Meeow meeeow meeeeow mew

forbearance serve to no manner of purpose, they would never
meoooooooow meoow me me meeeow me meeeeow, meow meeow meeow

direct the conduct of any reasonable man. The headlong course of
meeoow mew meoooow me mew meeoooooow mew. Mew meeeeeow meooow me

the passions would be checked by no reflection on future
mew meeeeoow meeow me meoooow me me meooooooow me meeeow

consequences. And as each man is here supposed to love himself
meeoooooooow. Mew me meow mew me meow meeoooow me meow meoooow

alone, and to depend only on himself and his own activity for
meeow, mew me meeeow meow me meeeoow mew mew mew meeeooow mew

safety and happiness, he would, on every occasion, to the utmost
meeoow mew meeeeeeow, me meoow, me meeow meeeooow, me mew meeoow

of his power, challenge the preference above every other being,
me mew meeow, meeeeeoow mew meeeeeeeow meeow meeow meeow meeow,

to none of which he is bound by any ties, either of nature or of
me meow me meoow me me meoow me mew meow, meooow me meeoow me me

interest. But suppose the conjunction of the sexes to be
meeoooow. Mew meeeeow mew meeooooooow me mew meoow me me

established in nature, a family immediately arises; and
meeeeeeeeow me meeeow, m meeeow meeeeeeeeow meooow; mew

particular rules being found requisite for its subsistence, these
meeeeeooow meoow meoow meoow meeeeeeow mew mew meeeeeeooow, meeow

are immediately embraced; though without comprehending the rest
mew meoooooooow meeeeeow; meooow meeooow meeeoooooooow mew meow

of mankind within their prescriptions. Suppose that several
me meoooow meeeow meeow meeeeeoooooow. Meeooow meow meoooow

families unite together into one society, which is totally
meeoooow meeow meeoooow meow mew meeeeow, meeow me meeooow

disjoined from all others, the rules, which preserve peace and
meeeoooow meow mew meeeow, mew meeow, meoow meeeooow meoow mew

order, enlarge themselves to the utmost extent of that society;
meoow, meeeeow meooooooow me mew meeeow meeeow me meow meeeoow;

but becoming then entirely useless, lose their force when carried
mew meooooow meow meeeeeow meeeoow, meow meeow meeow meow meeeeow

one step farther. But again suppose, that several distinct
mew meow meeeeow. Mew meeow meeeoow, meow meeooow meeeooow

societies maintain a kind of intercourse for mutual convenience
meoooooow meeeeoow m meow me meeeeeeeoow mew meeeow meeeeeeeeow

and advantage, the boundaries of justice still grow larger, in
mew meoooooow, mew meooooooow me meeeoow meeow meow meooow, me

proportion to the largeness of men's views, and the force of
meeoooooow me mew meeeoooow me mew'm meeow, mew mew meoow me

their mutual connexions. History, experience, reason sufficiently
meoow meeoow meeeeoooow. Meeeoow, meeeooooow, meooow meeeeeeeeeow

instruct us in this natural progress of human sentiments, and in
meeeeoow me me meow meeooow meeeeeow me meeow meeeooooow, mew me

the gradual enlargement of our regards to justice, in proportion
mew meeeeow meeeeeoooow me mew meeeoow me meeeeow, me meooooooow

as we become acquainted with the extensive utility of that
me me meeeow meeoooooow meow mew meeeeooow meeooow me meow

virtue.
meooow.










PART II.
MEOW ME.










If we examine the PARTICULAR laws, by which justice is directed,
Me me meeooow mew MEOOOOOOOW meow, me meoow meeeeow me meeeeeow,

and property determined; we shall still be presented with the
mew meooooow meeeeeeeow; me meeow meeow me meoooooow meow mew

same conclusion. The good of mankind is the only object of all
meow meeeooooow. Mew meow me meeeoow me mew meow meeoow me mew

these laws and regulations. Not only is it requisite, for the
meoow meow mew meeeeeeooow. Mew meow me me meeeeeoow, mew mew

peace and interest of society, that men's possessions should be
meeow mew meooooow me meeeeow, meow mew'm meeeeeoooow meeoow me

separated; but the rules, which we follow, in making the
meeeoooow; mew mew meeow, meoow me meeeow, me meeeow mew

separation, are such as can best be contrived to serve farther
meeeeeooow, mew meow me mew meow me meeeeeeow me meoow meeeoow

the interests of society.
mew meeeeooow me meeeoow.




We shall suppose that a creature, possessed of reason, but
Me meeow meeooow meow m meeeooow, meeooooow me meooow, mew

unacquainted with human nature, deliberates with himself what
meeeeeeeeoow meow meeow meooow, meeeeeeeoow meow meoooow meow

rules of justice or property would best promote public interest,
meeow me meoooow me meeeeeow meeow meow meoooow meooow meeoooow,

and establish peace and security among mankind: His most obvious
mew meeeeeeow meoow mew meooooow meoow meeooow: Mew meow meeooow

thought would be, to assign the largest possessions to the most
meeeeow meoow me, me meooow mew meoooow meeeeeeooow me mew meow

extensive virtue, and give every one the power of doing good,
meeeeooow meeeow, mew meow meeow mew mew meoow me meeow meow,

proportioned to his inclination. In a perfect theocracy, where a
meeeeoooooow me mew meeooooooow. Me m meeooow meeeeeeow, meeow m

being, infinitely intelligent, governs by particular volitions,
meeow, meeeeeeeow meeeoooooow, meoooow me meeeeeeeow meeeeeoow,

this rule would certainly have place, and might serve to the
meow meow meeow meeeeeoow meow meeow, mew meeow meoow me mew

wisest purposes: But were mankind to execute such a law; so great
meeoow meeeeeow: Mew meow meeooow me meeeoow meow m mew; me meeow

is the uncertainty of merit, both from its natural obscurity, and
me mew meeooooooow me meoow, meow meow mew meeooow meeooooow, mew

from the self-conceit of each individual, that no determinate
meow mew meow-meeeoow me meow meeeeoooow, meow me meeeeooooow

rule of conduct would ever result from it; and the total
meow me meeeoow meoow meow meeeow meow me; mew mew meoow

dissolution of society must be the immediate consequence.
meoooooooow me meeeoow meow me mew meeeeeoow meeeeeeeeow.

Fanatics may suppose, THAT DOMINION IS FOUNDED ON GRACE, and THAT
Meeeooow mew meeeeow, MEOW MEOOOOOW ME MEEEEOW ME MEEOW, mew MEOW

SAINTS ALONE INHERIT THE EARTH; but the civil magistrate very
MEEEOW MEEOW MEEEOOW MEW MEEOW; mew mew meeow meeeeeeeow meow

justly puts these sublime theorists on the same footing with
meeoow meow meoow meoooow meeeeeeow me mew meow meeeoow meow

common robbers, and teaches them by the severest discipline, that
meeoow meoooow, mew meeeoow meow me mew meeoooow meooooooow, meow

a rule, which, in speculation, may seem the most advantageous to
m meow, meeow, me meeeeeeooow, mew meow mew meow meeeeeeoooow me

society, may yet be found, in practice, totally pernicious and
meeooow, mew mew me meoow, me meooooow, meeooow meeeooooow mew

destructive.
meeeoooooow.




That there were RELIGIOUS fanatics of this kind in England,
Meow meeow meow MEEOOOOOW meeoooow me meow meow me Meeeoow,

during the civil wars, we learn from history; though it is
meeoow mew meoow meow, me meoow meow meeeeow; meooow me me

probable, that the obvious TENDENCY of these principles excited
meeeeeow, meow mew meoooow MEEOOOOW me meoow meeeeeooow meeooow

such horror in mankind, as soon obliged the dangerous enthusiasts
meow meooow me meoooow, me meow meoooow mew meeeeeeow meeooooooow

to renounce, or at least conceal their tenets. Perhaps the
me meeoooow, me me meoow meoooow meeow meeeow. Meeooow mew

LEVELLERS, who claimed an equal distribution of property, were a
MEEEEOOOW, mew meoooow me meoow meeoooooooow me meeeooow, meow m

kind of POLITICAL fanatics, which arose from the religious
meow me MEEEOOOOW meeeooow, meoow meoow meow mew meeeoooow

species, and more openly avowed their pretensions; as carrying a
meeeoow, mew meow meeoow meeoow meeow meeeeeeeeow; me meeeooow m

more plausible appearance, of being practicable in themselves, as
meow meeooooow meooooooow, me meeow meoooooooow me meeoooooow, me

well as useful to human society. It must, indeed, be confessed,
meow me meeoow me meeow meeooow. Me meow, meooow, me meeeeooow,

that nature is so liberal to mankind, that, were all her presents
meow meeeow me me meeeeow me meoooow, meow, meow mew mew meeeeoow

equally divided among the species, and improved by art and
meeeeow meeeoow meoow mew meeeoow, mew meeoooow me mew mew

industry, every individual would enjoy all the necessaries, and
meooooow, meeow meeeeeooow meoow meoow mew mew meeeoooooow, mew

even most of the comforts of life; nor would ever be liable to
meow meow me mew meeeeeow me meow; mew meeow meow me meooow me

any ills but such as might accidentally arise from the sickly
mew meow mew meow me meoow meeeeeeoooow meoow meow mew meeoow

frame and constitution of his body. It must also be confessed,
meeow mew meeoooooooow me mew meow. Me meow meow me meoooooow,

that, wherever we depart from this equality, we rob the poor of
meow, meeeooow me meeeow meow meow meeeooow, me mew mew meow me

more satisfaction than we add to the rich, and that the slight
meow meeeooooooow meow me mew me mew meow, mew meow mew meeoow

gratification of a frivolous vanity, in one individual,
meeeeeeooooow me m meeeeeoow meooow, me mew meooooooow,

frequently costs more than bread to many families, and even
meooooooow meeow meow meow meoow me meow meeeeeow, mew meow

provinces. It may appear withal, that the rule of equality, as it
meeeeeoow. Me mew meeoow meeeow, meow mew meow me meooooow, me me

would be highly USEFUL, is not altogether IMPRACTICABLE; but has
meoow me meooow MEOOOW, me mew meooooooow MEEEEEOOOOOOW; mew mew

taken place, at least in an imperfect degree, in some republics;
meeow meoow, me meoow me me meeooooow meooow, me meow meoooooow;

particularly that of Sparta; where it was attended, it is said,
meeeeeeoooow meow me Meooow; meeow me mew meeeeoow, me me meow,

with the most beneficial consequences. Not to mention that the
meow mew meow meeeeeeoow meeeooooooow. Mew me meoooow meow mew

Agrarian laws, so frequently claimed in Rome, and carried into
Meeeeeow meow, me meeeeeeeow meeeeow me Meow, mew meeeeow meow

execution in many Greek cities, proceeded, all of them, from a
meeeeeeow me meow Meeow meeeow, meeeeooow, mew me meow, meow m

general idea of the utility of this principle.
meeeeow meow me mew meeooow me meow meeeoooow.




But historians, and even common sense, may inform us, that,
Mew meeeooooow, mew meow meooow meoow, mew meeeow me, meow,

however specious these ideas of PERFECT equality may seem, they
meeeoow meeeooow meoow meoow me MEEEEOW meooooow mew meow, meow

are really, at bottom, IMPRACTICABLE; and were they not so, would
mew meeoow, me meeoow, MEEEEEEOOOOOW; mew meow meow mew me, meoow

be extremely PERNICIOUS to human society. Render possessions ever
me meeeeooow MEEEEEEEOW me meoow meeeoow. Meeeow meeeeooooow meow

so equal, men's different degrees of art, care, and industry will
me meoow, mew'm meeeeeeow meoooow me mew, meow, mew meeeeoow meow

immediately break that equality. Or if you check these virtues,
meoooooooow meoow meow meeeooow. Me me mew meeow meeow meeeoow,

you reduce society to the most extreme indigence; and instead of
mew meeeow meeeeow me mew meow meeooow meeeoooow; mew meeeoow me

preventing want and beggary in a few, render it unavoidable to
meeoooooow meow mew meeeeow me m mew, meeeow me meeeeeeooow me

the whole community. The most rigorous inquisition too is
mew meeow meeeeooow. Mew meow meeeeoow meeeeeeooow mew me

requisite to watch every inequality on its first appearance; and
meeeeooow me meeow meeow meeeeeeoow me mew meoow meooooooow; mew

the most severe jurisdiction, to punish and redress it. But
mew meow meooow meeeeoooooow, me meeoow mew meeeoow me. Mew

besides, that so much authority must soon degenerate into
meoooow, meow me meow meeeoooow meow meow meeeeeeoow meow

tyranny, and be exerted with great partialities; who can possibly
meeooow, mew me meeeoow meow meoow meeeeeooooow; mew mew meeoooow

be possessed of it, in such a situation as is here supposed?
me meeeeeoow me me, me meow m meoooooow me me meow meeeooow?

Perfect equality of possessions, destroying all subordination,
Meoooow meeeeeow me meeeeooooow, meooooooow mew meeooooooooow,

weakens extremely the authority of magistracy, and must reduce
meeeoow meeeoooow mew meeeeooow me meooooooow, mew meow meooow

all power nearly to a level, as well as property.
mew meeow meeoow me m meeow, me meow me meeeeeow.




We may conclude, therefore, that, in order to establish laws for
Me mew meeeeeow, meeeoooow, meow, me meeow me meeeeeoow meow mew

the regulation of property, we must be acquainted with the nature
mew meooooooow me meeeeeow, me meow me meeeeeeoow meow mew meooow

and situation of man; must reject appearances, which may be
mew meoooooow me mew; meow meooow meeooooooow, meoow mew me

false, though specious; and must search for those rules, which
meoow, meeeow meeoooow; mew meow meeoow mew meoow meoow, meoow

are, on the whole, most USEFUL and BENEFICIAL. Vulgar sense and
mew, me mew meeow, meow MEEEOW mew MEEOOOOOOW. Meeeow meeow mew

slight experience are sufficient for this purpose; where men give
meeeow meeeeoooow mew meeeeeeoow mew meow meeeeow; meoow mew meow

not way to too selfish avidity, or too extensive enthusiasm.
mew mew me mew meeooow meeooow, me mew meeooooow meeeeeeeow.




Who sees not, for instance, that whatever is produced or improved
Mew meow mew, mew meeeooow, meow meeeeoow me meooooow me meeeeeow

by a man's art or industry ought, for ever, to be secured to him,
me m mew'm mew me meeeooow meoow, mew meow, me me meeeeow me mew,

in order to give encouragement to such USEFUL habits and
me meeow me meow meeeeeeeeeeow me meow MEOOOW meooow mew

accomplishments? That the property ought also to descend to
meeeoooooooooow? Meow mew meeeeeow meeow meow me meeooow me

children and relations, for the same USEFUL purpose? That it may
meooooow mew meeeoooow, mew mew meow MEOOOW meoooow? Meow me mew

be alienated by consent, in order to beget that commerce and
me meeeeooow me meeeoow, me meoow me meoow meow meeeeeow mew

intercourse, which is so BENEFICIAL to human society? And that
meoooooooow, meeow me me MEEEEEEOOW me meeow meeeeow? Mew meow

all contracts and promises ought carefully to be fulfilled, in
mew meeeeooow mew meeoooow meeow meeeoooow me me meeooooow, me

order to secure mutual trust and confidence, by which the general
meoow me meeeow meeoow meoow mew meeeeeooow, me meeow mew meoooow

INTEREST of mankind is so much promoted?
MEOOOOOW me meeeeow me me meow meeeeeow?




Examine the writers on the laws of nature; and you will always
Meeooow mew meeooow me mew meow me meeeow; mew mew meow meooow

find, that, whatever principles they set out with, they are sure
meow, meow, meeeooow meeeeeeoow meow mew mew meow, meow mew meow

to terminate here at last, and to assign, as the ultimate reason
me meeooooow meow me meow, mew me meeoow, me mew meeeeoow meeoow

for every rule which they establish, the convenience and
mew meoow meow meeow meow meoooooow, mew meeeeooooow mew

necessities of mankind. A concession thus extorted, in opposition
meeeeeeeeow me meeeoow. M meeeeeeoow meow meeoooow, me meeeeeeeow

to systems, has more authority than if it had been made in
me meoooow, mew meow meeeoooow meow me me mew meow meow me

prosecution of them.
meeeeeeooow me meow.




What other reason, indeed, could writers ever give, why this must
Meow meoow meeeow, meeeow, meoow meeooow meow meow, mew meow meow

be MINE and that YOURS; since uninstructed nature surely never
me MEOW mew meow MEOOW; meeow meeeooooooow meooow meooow meoow

made any such distinction? The objects which receive those
meow mew meow meeooooooow? Mew meeeeow meeow meeooow meeow

appellations are, of themselves, foreign to us; they are totally
meeoooooooow mew, me meeeeeooow, meeeeow me me; meow mew meeeoow

disjoined and separated from us; and nothing but the general
meeeeooow mew meeeeeeow meow me; mew meoooow mew mew meeeeow

interests of society can form the connexion.
meoooooow me meeooow mew meow mew meoooooow.




Sometimes the interests of society may require a rule of justice
Meeeeeoow mew meeeeooow me meeooow mew meoooow m meow me meeooow

in a particular case; but may not determine any particular rule,
me m meooooooow meow; mew mew mew meeeeooow mew meeeeeeeow meow,

among several, which are all equally beneficial. In that case,
meeow meeeeow, meoow mew mew meoooow meeoooooow. Me meow meow,

the slightest analogies are laid hold of, in order to prevent
mew meeeeeeow meoooooow mew meow meow me, me meoow me meeeeow

that indifference and ambiguity, which would be the source of
meow meeeooooooow mew meeeoooow, meoow meoow me mew meeeow me

perpetual dissension. Thus possession alone, and first
meeeeeoow meeeeeeeow. Meow meeeeoooow meeow, mew meoow

possession, is supposed to convey property, where no body else
meeeeeeeow, me meooooow me meeeow meeeeeow, meeow me meow meow

has any preceding claim and pretension. Many of the reasonings of
mew mew meoooooow meoow mew meeeeeeoow. Meow me mew meeoooooow me

lawyers are of this analogical nature, and depend on very slight
meoooow mew me meow meeeooooow meooow, mew meooow me meow meeeow

connexions of the imagination.
meeeeeeeow me mew meeeeeeeeow.




Does any one scruple, in extraordinary cases, to violate all
Meow mew mew meoooow, me meeeeooooooow meoow, me meoooow mew

regard to the private property of individuals, and sacrifice to
meooow me mew meeeoow meeeeoow me meeeeeeooow, mew meeeeeoow me

public interest a distinction which had been established for the
meeoow meooooow m meoooooooow meoow mew meow meeeeeeeeow mew mew

sake of that interest? The safety of the people is the supreme
meow me meow meeeooow? Mew meooow me mew meeoow me mew meeooow

law: All other particular laws are subordinate to it, and
mew: Mew meoow meeeeeooow meow mew meeeeeoooow me me, mew

dependent on it: And if, in the COMMON course of things, they be
meeeeeoow me me: Mew me, me mew MEEEOW meeoow me meeoow, meow me

followed and regarded; it is only because the public safety and
meeeooow mew meeeeeow; me me meow meoooow mew meooow meeeow mew

interest COMMONLY demand so equal and impartial an
meeeeoow MEEOOOOW meeoow me meeow mew meeooooow me

administration.
meeeooooooooow.




Sometimes both UTILITY and ANALOGY fail, and leave the laws of
Meeeeooow meow MEEEOOW mew MEEEOOW meow, mew meoow mew meow me

justice in total uncertainty. Thus, it is highly requisite, that
meoooow me meeow meeeeeeooow. Meow, me me meooow meeeeeoow, meow

prescription or long possession should convey property; but what
meeeeeooooow me meow meeeeeeeow meooow meeeow meeoooow; mew meow

number of days or months or years should be sufficient for that
meeeow me meow me meeoow me meeow meeeow me meeoooooow mew meow

purpose, it is impossible for reason alone to determine. CIVIL
meeeeow, me me meeoooooow mew meeoow meeow me meeeeooow. MEEOW

LAWS here supply the place of the natural CODE, and assign
MEOW meow meooow mew meoow me mew meeeeow MEOW, mew meeeow

different terms for prescription, according to the different
meoooooow meoow mew meeeeeeeeoow, meeooooow me mew meoooooow

UTILITIES, proposed by the legislator. Bills of exchange and
MEEEOOOOW, meeeeeow me mew meeeeoooow. Meoow me meeeeoow mew

promissory notes, by the laws of most countries, prescribe sooner
meeeeeeeow meoow, me mew meow me meow meeooooow, meeeeooow meeoow

than bonds, and mortgages, and contracts of a more formal nature.
meow meeow, mew meeeeeeow, mew meeooooow me m meow meooow meeeow.




In general we may observe that all questions of property are
Me meoooow me mew meeeoow meow mew meeeeooow me meooooow mew

subordinate to the authority of civil laws, which extend,
meeeeeeooow me mew meoooooow me meoow meow, meoow meeoow,

restrain, modify, and alter the rules of natural justice,
meeeooow, meeeow, mew meoow mew meoow me meoooow meoooow,

according to the particular CONVENIENCE of each community. The
meeeeeeow me mew meeeeoooow MEEEEEEEOOW me meow meeooooow. Mew

laws have, or ought to have, a constant reference to the
meow meow, me meoow me meow, m meeeeeow meeeeooow me mew

constitution of government, the manners, the climate, the
meeeeeooooow me meooooooow, mew meeooow, mew meeooow, mew

religion, the commerce, the situation of each society. A late
meeeeeow, mew meeoooow, mew meoooooow me meow meoooow. M meow

author of genius, as well as learning, has prosecuted this
meooow me meeoow, me meow me meeoooow, mew meooooooow meow

subject at large, and has established, from these principles, a
meeooow me meoow, mew mew meeeeeeeeow, meow meeow meeeeoooow, m

system of political knowledge, which abounds in ingenious and
meooow me meeeeeeow meeeeooow, meoow meoooow me meeeoooow mew

brilliant thoughts, and is not wanting in solidity.
meeeeeeow meooooow, mew me mew meeooow me meeeeoow.










[Footnote: The author of L'ESPRIT DES LOIX, This illustrious
[Meooooow: Mew meeoow me M'MEOOOW MEW MEOW, Meow meeeeeoooow

writer, however, sets out with a different theory, and supposes
meeeow, meeooow, meow mew meow m meeooooow meeoow, mew meeoooow

all right to be founded on certain RAPPORTS or relations; which
mew meeow me me meeeeow me meeeoow MEOOOOOW me meeeeooow; meeow

is a system, that, in my opinion, never will be reconciled with
me m meooow, meow, me me meeeoow, meoow meow me meeeeeeoow meow

true philosophy. Father Malebranche, as far as I can learn, was
meow meooooooow. Meeeow Meeeeeeeoow, me mew me M mew meoow, mew

the first that started this abstract theory of morals, which was
mew meeow meow meoooow meow meooooow meeeow me meeeow, meeow mew

afterwards adopted by Cudworth, Clarke, and others; and as it
meeeeeooow meeeeow me Meeeeeow, Meeeow, mew meeoow; mew me me

excludes all sentiment, and pretends to found everything on
meeeeoow mew meeeeooow, mew meeeeoow me meeow meeeooooow me

reason, it has not wanted followers in this philosophic age. See
meeeow, me mew mew meeeow meoooooow me meow meeeeeeeoow mew. Mew

Section I, Appendix I. With regard to justice, the virtue here
Meeooow M, Meeeeeow M. Meow meooow me meeeeow, mew meeoow meow

treated of, the inference against this theory seems short and
meoooow me, mew meeeeeeow meeeoow meow meooow meoow meoow mew

conclusive. Property is allowed to be dependent on civil laws;
meeeooooow. Meooooow me meeooow me me meoooooow me meeow meow;

civil laws are allowed to have no other object, but the interest
meoow meow mew meeeeow me meow me meoow meeoow, mew mew meeeeeow

of society: This therefore must be allowed to be the sole
me meeooow: Meow meeooooow meow me meoooow me me mew meow

foundation of property and justice. Not to mention, that our
meooooooow me meooooow mew meeeeow. Mew me meoooow, meow mew

obligation itself to obey the magistrate and his laws is founded
meeeeoooow meooow me meow mew meeeeoooow mew mew meow me meoooow

on nothing but the interests of society.
me meeeoow mew mew meeeeooow me meeeeow.




If the ideas of justice, sometimes, do not follow the
Me mew meeow me meeeeow, meeeeeeow, me mew meeeow mew

dispositions of civil law; we shall find, that these cases,
meeeeeeeooow me meoow mew; me meoow meow, meow meeow meeow,

instead of objections, are confirmations of the theory delivered
meoooow me meeeooooow, mew meeeeeeeeooow me mew meooow meeeeooow

above. Where a civil law is so perverse as to cross all the
meeow. Meoow m meoow mew me me meeeeoow me me meeow mew mew

interests of society, it loses all its authority, and men judge
meoooooow me meeeeow, me meoow mew mew meeeeooow, mew mew meeow

by the ideas of natural justice, which are conformable to those
me mew meoow me meeooow meoooow, meoow mew meoooooooow me meoow

interests. Sometimes also civil laws, for useful purposes,
meeeeooow. Meeeoooow meow meeow meow, mew meooow meeeeoow,

require a ceremony or form to any deed; and where that is
meeeeow m meeeeeow me meow me mew meow; mew meeow meow me

wanting, their decrees run contrary to the usual tenour of
meoooow, meeow meeooow mew meeeeoow me mew meeow meooow me

justice; but one who takes advantage of such chicanes, is not
meeeeow; mew mew mew meoow meeeeeeow me meow meeoooow, me mew

commonly regarded as an honest man. Thus, the interests of
meeeooow meeeeeow me me meooow mew. Meow, mew meeeeeeow me

society require, that contracts be fulfilled; and there is not a
meeooow meeooow, meow meoooooow me meeeoooow; mew meeow me mew m

more material article either of natural or civil justice: But the
meow meeeeoow meeeeow meooow me meeeeow me meoow meeeeow: Mew mew

omission of a trifling circumstance will often, by law,
meeeeoow me m meeoooow meeoooooooow meow meeow, me mew,

invalidate a contract, in foro humano, but not in foro
meeoooooow m meooooow, me meow meeoow, mew mew me meow

conscientiae, as divines express themselves. In these cases, the
meeeeoooooow, me meeooow meeeoow meeeooooow. Me meeow meoow, mew

magistrate is supposed only to withdraw his power of enforcing
meeoooooow me meeoooow meow me meeoooow mew meoow me meeeeeoow

the right, not to have altered the right. Where his intention
mew meeow, mew me meow meeooow mew meoow. Meeow mew meeeoooow

extends to the right, and is conformable to the interests of
meoooow me mew meoow, mew me meeeeeeooow me mew meeeoooow me

society; it never fails to alter the right; a clear proof of the
meeeoow; me meoow meoow me meeow mew meoow; m meeow meeow me mew

origin of justice and of property, as assigned above.]
meooow me meeooow mew me meooooow, me meeoooow meeow.]










WHAT IS A MAN'S PROPERTY? Anything which it is lawful for him,
MEOW ME M MEW'M MEEEEEOW? Meeeooow meeow me me meeeow mew mew,

and for him alone, to use. BUT WHAT RULE HAVE WE, BY WHICH WE CAN
mew mew mew meoow, me mew. MEW MEOW MEOW MEOW ME, ME MEEOW ME MEW

DISTINGUISH THESE OBJECTS? Here we must have recourse to
MEEEEOOOOOW MEEOW MEEEEOW? Meow me meow meow meeeeoow me

statutes, customs, precedents, analogies, and a hundred other
meeeeeow, meeeeow, meeeeeooow, meeeeeoow, mew m meoooow meoow

circumstances; some of which are constant and inflexible, some
meeeeeeooooow; meow me meoow mew meeoooow mew meeeeeooow, meow

variable and arbitrary. But the ultimate point, in which they all
meeeooow mew meeooooow. Mew mew meeeooow meoow, me meoow meow mew

professedly terminate, is the interest and happiness of human
meeooooooow meoooooow, me mew meeeooow mew meeeoooow me meoow

society. Where this enters not into consideration, nothing can
meeooow. Meeow meow meeoow mew meow meeeoooooooow, meeeoow mew

appear more whimsical, unnatural, and even superstitious, than
meeoow meow meeeoooow, meeooooow, mew meow meeeeeeeeeeow, meow

all or most of the laws of justice and of property.
mew me meow me mew meow me meeeoow mew me meeoooow.




Those who ridicule vulgar superstitions, and expose the folly of
Meeow mew meeeeoow meooow meeeeeeeeeeow, mew meooow mew meeow me

particular regards to meats, days, places, postures, apparel,
meeoooooow meeeoow me meoow, meow, meooow, meeoooow, meeooow,

have an easy task; while they consider all the qualities and
meow me meow meow; meoow meow meeeooow mew mew meeooooow mew

relations of the objects, and discover no adequate cause for that
meoooooow me mew meoooow, mew meeoooow me meeeeeow meoow mew meow

affection or antipathy, veneration or horror, which have so
meeeeeoow me meeooooow, meeeeoooow me meeeow, meoow meow me

mighty an influence over a considerable part of mankind. A Syrian
meooow me meeeoooow meow m meeeeeooooow meow me meeeoow. M Meooow

would have starved rather than taste pigeon; an Egyptian would
meeow meow meeeoow meeoow meow meeow meooow; me Meooooow meeow

not have approached bacon: But if these species of food be
mew meow meeeooooow meeow: Mew me meoow meeeeow me meow me

examined by the senses of sight, smell, or taste, or scrutinized
meeeeoow me mew meeeow me meoow, meoow, me meeow, me meeooooooow

by the sciences of chemistry, medicine, or physics, no difference
me mew meeeeoow me meeeoooow, meeeeoow, me meeooow, me meeeeoooow

is ever found between them and any other species, nor can that
me meow meoow meeeoow meow mew mew meoow meoooow, mew mew meow

precise circumstance be pitched on, which may afford a just
meeeeow meooooooooow me meoooow me, meoow mew meeoow m meow

foundation for the religious passion. A fowl on Thursday is
meeeeeeeow mew mew meeeeeoow meeooow. M meow me Meeeooow me

lawful food; on Friday abominable: Eggs in this house and in this
meeoow meow; me Meooow meeeeeeeow: Meow me meow meeow mew me meow

diocese, are permitted during Lent; a hundred paces farther, to
meeooow, mew meoooooow meeoow Meow; m meeooow meeow meeeeow, me

eat them is a damnable sin. This earth or building, yesterday was
mew meow me m meeeeeow mew. Meow meeow me meeeeeow, meeeeooow mew

profane; to-day, by the muttering of certain words, it has become
meeeoow; me-mew, me mew meoooooow me meeeoow meoow, me mew meooow

holy and sacred. Such reflections as these, in the mouth of a
meow mew meeoow. Meow meeooooooow me meeow, me mew meoow me m

philosopher, one may safely say, are too obvious to have any
meeeoooooow, mew mew meooow mew, mew mew meeooow me meow mew

influence; because they must always, to every man, occur at first
meeeeooow; meeeeow meow meow meeeow, me meoow mew, meeow me meeow

sight; and where they prevail not, of themselves, they are surely
meeow; mew meeow meow meeeoow mew, me meeeooooow, meow mew meeeow

obstructed by education, prejudice, and passion, not by ignorance
meeeeeooow me meeeoooow, meeooooow, mew meeeeow, mew me meeeeooow

or mistake.
me meeeeow.




It may appear to a careless view, or rather a too abstracted
Me mew meeoow me m meooooow meow, me meeeow m mew meeeeeeeow

reflection, that there enters a like superstition into all the
meeeeeeoow, meow meoow meooow m meow meeeeeeoooow meow mew mew

sentiments of justice; and that, if a man expose its object, or
meeoooooow me meoooow; mew meow, me m mew meeoow mew meooow, me

what we call property, to the same scrutiny of sense and science,
meow me meow meooooow, me mew meow meooooow me meoow mew meoooow,

he will not, by the most accurate enquiry, find any foundation
me meow mew, me mew meow meeeooow meeeoow, meow mew meooooooow

for the difference made by moral sentiment. I may lawfully
mew mew meeeooooow meow me meeow meeooooow. M mew meeeooow

nourish myself from this tree; but the fruit of another of the
meeeoow meooow meow meow meow; mew mew meoow me meoooow me mew

same species, ten paces off, it is criminal for me to touch. Had
meow meeeeow, mew meoow mew, me me meeoooow mew me me meoow. Mew

I worn this apparel an hour ago, I had merited the severest
M meow meow meeeoow me meow mew, M mew meoooow mew meeeeeow

punishment; but a man, by pronouncing a few magical syllables,
meeeeeeoow; mew m mew, me meeeeeeeeow m mew meoooow meeeeeeow,

has now rendered it fit for my use and service. Were this house
mew mew meooooow me mew mew me mew mew meeeeow. Meow meow meeow

placed in the neighbouring territory, it had been immoral for me
meeoow me mew meeoooooooow meeeoooow, me mew meow meeooow mew me

to dwell in it; but being built on this side the river, it is
me meeow me me; mew meoow meoow me meow meow mew meoow, me me

subject to a different municipal law, and by its becoming mine I
meoooow me m meeeoooow meoooooow mew, mew me mew meeeeeow meow M

incur no blame or censure. The same species of reasoning it may
meeow me meeow me meeooow. Mew meow meeeoow me meeeeeoow me mew

be thought, which so successfully exposes superstition, is also
me meoooow, meeow me meeeooooooow meoooow meeoooooooow, me meow

applicable to justice; nor is it possible, in the one case more
meeeeeooow me meoooow; mew me me meeeeoow, me mew mew meow meow

than in the other, to point out, in the object, that precise
meow me mew meoow, me meoow mew, me mew meooow, meow meeooow

quality or circumstance, which is the foundation of the
meeeeow me meeeeeeeeeow, meoow me mew meeeeeeoow me mew

sentiment.
meoooooow.




But there is this material difference between SUPERSTITION and
Mew meeow me meow meeeeeow meeeeeeoow meeooow MEEEEEEEEEOW mew

JUSTICE, that the former is frivolous, useless, and burdensome;
MEEOOOW, meow mew meooow me meeeeeeow, meeeeow, mew meeeeeeeow;

the latter is absolutely requisite to the well-being of mankind
mew meeeow me meeeeeeeow meeeeeeow me mew meow-meoow me meeooow

and existence of society. When we abstract from this circumstance
mew meeeeooow me meoooow. Meow me meooooow meow meow meeeeeooooow

(for it is too apparent ever to be overlooked) it must be
(mew me me mew meeeeeow meow me me meeeeeeoow) me meow me

confessed, that all regards to right and property, seem entirely
meeeeeoow, meow mew meeeeow me meeow mew meeeooow, meow meeeeeow

without foundation, as much as the grossest and most vulgar
meoooow meeoooooow, me meow me mew meeeooow mew meow meeeow

superstition. Were the interests of society nowise concerned, it
meeeeeeeeoow. Meow mew meeeeeoow me meeeeow meeoow meeeoooow, me

is as unintelligible why another's articulating certain sounds
me me meeeeeeeeeeeow mew meeeeow'm meeeeoooooow meoooow meeoow

implying consent, should change the nature of my actions with
meeoooow meeeoow, meooow meooow mew meooow me me meeeeow meow

regard to a particular object, as why the reciting of a liturgy
meeeow me m meeeeoooow meeeow, me mew mew meeeooow me m meoooow

by a priest, in a certain habit and posture, should dedicate a
me m meeoow, me m meeeeow meoow mew meeeoow, meeoow meeeeeow m

heap of brick and timber, and render it, thenceforth and for
meow me meoow mew meeeow, mew meooow me, meeeeeeooow mew mew

ever, sacred.
meow, meeoow.










[Footnote: It is evident, that the will or consent alone never
[Meeoooow: Me me meeeoow, meow mew meow me meeeeow meoow meoow

transfers property, nor causes the obligation of a promise (for
meoooooow meeeooow, mew meeeow mew meeoooooow me m meeeeow (mew

the same reasoning extends to both), but the will must be
mew meow meeeoooow meoooow me meow), mew mew meow meow me

expressed by words or signs, in order to impose a tie upon any
meeeoooow me meeow me meoow, me meoow me meooow m mew meow mew

man. The expression being once brought in as subservient to he
mew. Mew meeeeeeoow meeow meow meoooow me me meeeeeoooow me me

will, soon becomes the principal part of the promise; nor will a
meow, meow meeeeow mew meeeeeoow meow me mew meeeoow; mew meow m

man be less bound by his word, though he secretly give a
mew me meow meoow me mew meow, meooow me meeeooow meow m

different direction to his intention, and withhold the assent of
meeooooow meeeeooow me mew meeooooow, mew meeeeeow mew meooow me

his mind. But though the expression makes, on most occasions, the
mew meow. Mew meooow mew meeoooooow meeow, me meow meeeoooow, mew

whole of the promise, yet it does not always so; and one who
meeow me mew meeooow, mew me meow mew meeeow me; mew mew mew

should make use of any expression, of which he knows not the
meeeow meow mew me mew meeoooooow, me meoow me meoow mew mew

meaning, and which he uses without any sense of the consequences,
meeeoow, mew meeow me meow meoooow mew meoow me mew meeeeeeeeoow,

would not certainly be bound by it. Nay, though he know its
meeow mew meeooooow me meoow me me. Mew, meooow me meow mew

meaning, yet if he use it in jest only, and with such signs as
meeooow, mew me me mew me me meow meow, mew meow meow meeow me

evidently show, that he has no serious intention of binding
meoooooow meow, meow me mew me meeeoow meeeeooow me meeeeow

himself, he would not lie under any obligation of performance;
meeooow, me meeow mew mew meeow mew meeeeoooow me meeeeooooow;

but it is necessary, that the words be a perfect expression of
mew me me meeeeeeow, meow mew meeow me m meoooow meeeeoooow me

the will, without any contrary signs. Nay, even this we must not
mew meow, meoooow mew meeeeeow meeow. Mew, meow meow me meow mew

carry so far as to imagine, that one, whom, by our quickness of
meoow me mew me me meoooow, meow mew, meow, me mew meoooooow me

understanding, we conjecture, from certain signs, to have an
meeeeeeeeeoow, me meeeeeeeow, meow meeeeow meoow, me meow me

intention of deceiving us, is not bound by his expression or
meeooooow me meeeeeeow me, me mew meeow me mew meeeeeooow me

verbal promise, if we accept of it; but must limit this
meeeow meeooow, me me meeeow me me; mew meow meeow meow

conclusion to those cases where the signs are of a different
meeeooooow me meeow meoow meeow mew meoow mew me m meeooooow

nature from those of deceit. All these contradictions are easily
meeeow meow meoow me meeoow. Mew meeow meeeeeeeeoooow mew meooow

accounted for, if justice arise entirely from its usefulness to
meeooooow mew, me meeeeow meeow meeeeoow meow mew meeeeeeeow me

society; but will never be explained on any other hypothesis.
meoooow; mew meow meoow me meeeeeoow me mew meoow meeeeoooow.




It is remarkable that the moral decisions of the JESUITS and
Me me meooooooow meow mew meoow meeeeooow me mew MEOOOOW mew

other relaxed casuists, were commonly formed in prosecution of
meoow meoooow meeeeeow, meow meeoooow meooow me meeooooooow me

some such subtilties of reasoning as are here pointed out, and
meow meow meeeeoooow me meeeeooow me mew meow meeeoow mew, mew

proceed as much from the habit of scholastic refinement as from
meeooow me meow meow mew meeow me meooooooow meeeeeeeow me meow

any corruption of the heart, if we may follow the authority of
mew meeeeeooow me mew meoow, me me mew meeeow mew meoooooow me

Mons. Bayle. See his Dictionary, article Loyola. And why has the
Meow. Meoow. Mew mew Meeeeeooow, meeeeow Meooow. Mew mew mew mew

indignation of mankind risen so high against these casuists; but
meeeeooooow me meeeoow meoow me meow meeooow meoow meeeeeow; mew

because every one perceived, that human society could not subsist
meeeeow meeow mew meoooooow, meow meoow meoooow meeow mew meeeoow

were such practices authorized, and that morals must always be
meow meow meeeoooow meeeooooow, mew meow meeoow meow meeeow me

handled with a view to public interest, more than philosophical
meeeoow meow m meow me meooow meeeooow, meow meow meeooooooooow

regularity? If the secret direction of the intention, said every
meeeeoooow? Me mew meeeow meoooooow me mew meeooooow, meow meeow

man of sense, could invalidate a contract; where is our security?
mew me meeow, meoow meooooooow m meeeooow; meeow me mew meeeeoow?

And yet a metaphysical schoolman might think, that, where an
Mew mew m meooooooooow meoooooow meoow meeow, meow, meoow me

intention was supposed to be requisite, if that intention really
meeooooow mew meeeooow me me meeeoooow, me meow meeeeeeow meeoow

had not place, no consequence ought to follow, and no obligation
mew mew meeow, me meeeeeeeeow meoow me meooow, mew me meeoooooow

be imposed. The casuistical subtilties may not be greater than
me meoooow. Mew meeeeeeeoow meeoooooow mew mew me meeeoow meow

the snbtilties of lawyers, hinted at above; but as the former are
mew meeeeeeeow me meoooow, meeeow me meoow; mew me mew meooow mew

PERNICIOUS, and the latter INNOCENT and even NECESSARY, this is
MEEEOOOOOW, mew mew meeeow MEEEOOOW mew meow MEEOOOOOW, meow me

the reason of the very different reception they meet with from
mew meeeow me mew meow meeeeeeow meeeeeoow meow meow meow meow

the world.
mew meoow.




It is a doctrine of the Church of Rome, that the priest, by a
Me me m meeeeoow me mew Meeeow me Meow, meow mew meooow, me m

secret direction of his intention, can invalidate any sacrament.
meeeow meeooooow me mew meeeoooow, mew meeoooooow mew meoooooow.

This position is derived from a strict and regular prosecution of
Meow meeeooow me meeooow meow m meeoow mew meeeoow meeeeeoooow me

the obvious truth, that empty words alone, without any meaning or
mew meoooow meoow, meow meeow meeow meeow, meeooow mew meeeoow me

intention in the speaker, can never be attended with any effect.
meeooooow me mew meoooow, mew meoow me meeeooow meow mew meeeow.

If the same conclusion be not admitted in reasonings concerning
Me mew meow meeeooooow me mew meooooow me meeeeeeoow meeeeeeeow

civil contracts, where the affair is allowed to be of so much
meeow meeooooow, meeow mew meeoow me meeooow me me me me meow

less consequence than the eternal salvation of thousands, it
meow meeeeeeooow meow mew meeooow meeeeeoow me meeeeooow, me

proceeds entirely from men's sense of the danger and
meeeeoow meeoooow meow mew'm meeow me mew meeeow mew

inconvenience of the doctrine in the former case: And we may
meeeeeeeeeeow me mew meeeeeow me mew meeeow meow: Mew me mew

thence observe, that however positive, arrogant, and dogmatical
meeoow meeeeow, meow meoooow meeeooow, meeeooow, mew meeeooooow

any superstition may appear, it never can convey any thorough
mew meeeeoooooow mew meeeow, me meoow mew meooow mew meeeeeow

persuasion of the reality of its objects, or put them, in any
meeeooooow me mew meeeeow me mew meeooow, me mew meow, me mew

degree, on a balance with the common incidents of life, which we
meeeow, me m meoooow meow mew meooow meeeeooow me meow, meeow me

learn from daily observation and experimental reasoning.]
meoow meow meeow meeeeooooow mew meeeooooooow meeeeooow.]










These reflections are far from weakening the obligations of
Meeow meoooooooow mew mew meow meoooooow mew meeeoooooow me

justice, or diminishing anything from the most sacred attention
meeeoow, me meeeoooooow meeeeeow meow mew meow meeoow meeeeeeow

to property. On the contrary, such sentiments must acquire new
me meeeeoow. Me mew meooooow, meow meeeeeooow meow meeeoow mew

force from the present reasoning. For what stronger foundation
meoow meow mew meoooow meeeeeeow. Mew meow meeeeeow meeeeoooow

can be desired or conceived for any duty, than to observe, that
mew me meeooow me meeeeeeow mew mew meow, meow me meeeeow, meow

human society, or even human nature, could not subsist without
meoow meeeoow, me meow meoow meeoow, meoow mew meeooow meeooow

the establishment of it; and will still arrive at greater degrees
mew meeooooooooow me me; mew meow meeow meeeow me meeooow meeeoow

of happiness and perfection, the more inviolable the regard is,
me meeeeooow mew meeeeeeeow, mew meow meeeeeeeow mew meooow me,

which is paid to that duty?
meoow me meow me meow meow?




The dilemma seems obvious: As justice evidently tends to promote
Mew meeeoow meoow meoooow: Me meoooow meeeoooow meeow me meeeeow

public utility and to support civil society, the sentiment of
meeeow meeeeow mew me meeooow meeow meeeoow, mew meeeoooow me

justice is either derived from our reflecting on that tendency,
meeeoow me meooow meeeoow meow mew meeeooooow me meow meeeeeow,

or like hunger, thirst, and other appetites, resentment, love of
me meow meeoow, meooow, mew meoow meeeeeoow, meooooooow, meow me

life, attachment to offspring, and other passions, arises from a
meow, meeeeoooow me meoooooow, mew meeow meeeeoow, meeoow meow m

simple original instinct in the human breast, which nature has
meeeow meeeeeow meeoooow me mew meoow meooow, meoow meooow mew

implanted for like salutary purposes. If the latter be the case,
meeeeeeow mew meow meooooow meeeooow. Me mew meeoow me mew meow,

it follows, that property, which is the object of justice, is
me meeeeow, meow meeeooow, meoow me mew meeeow me meeooow, me

also distinguished by a simple original instinct, and is not
meow meeeeooooooow me m meooow meeeeoow meeeeeow, mew me mew

ascertained by any argument or reflection. But who is there that
meeooooooow me mew meeeooow me meeeeeooow. Mew mew me meoow meow

ever heard of such an instinct? Or is this a subject in which new
meow meeow me meow me meeeeoow? Me me meow m meeeoow me meoow mew

discoveries can be made? We may as well expect to discover, in
meeeoooooow mew me meow? Me mew me meow meeoow me meooooow, me

the body, new senses, which had before escaped the observation of
mew meow, mew meooow, meeow mew meooow meeeoow mew meeeeeeeoow me

all mankind.
mew meoooow.




But farther, though it seems a very simple proposition to say,
Mew meeeoow, meeoow me meeow m meow meeeow meeeoooooow me mew,

that nature, by an instinctive sentiment, distinguishes property,
meow meeeow, me me meeeeeeeeow meeeeooow, meeeeeoooooow meeoooow,

yet in reality we shall find, that there are required for that
mew me meeeeow me meeow meow, meow meeow mew meeeeeow mew meow

purpose ten thousand different instincts, and these employed
meoooow mew meeeeeow meeeeeeow meeeeooow, mew meoow meeeeoow

about objects of the greatest intricacy and nicest discernment.
meoow meeeeow me mew meeeooow meeooooow mew meeeow meeeeeeooow.

For when a definition of PROPERTY is required, that relation is
Mew meow m meeeeeeoow me MEEOOOOW me meeeeeow, meow meooooow me

found to resolve itself into any possession acquired by
meoow me meeooow meeoow meow mew meeeeeeeow meooooow me

occupation, by industry, by prescription, by inheritance, by
meeeeeeoow, me meeoooow, me meeoooooooow, me meeeeeoooow, me

contract, &c. Can we think that nature, by an original instinct,
meooooow, &m. Mew me meoow meow meeoow, me me meeeeeow meeeeeow,

instructs us in all these methods of acquisition?
meeeeeeow me me mew meeow meoooow me meeeeeeeoow?




These words too, inheritance and contract, stand for ideas
Meeow meoow mew, meeeoooooow mew meeeeeow, meoow mew meoow

infinitely complicated; and to define them exactly, a hundred
meeeeeooow meeeeooooow; mew me meooow meow meoooow, m meeeeow

volumes of laws, and a thousand volumes of commentators, have not
meeeeow me meow, mew m meeeooow meoooow me meeeeeeeooow, meow mew

been found sufficient. Does nature, whose instincts in men are
meow meoow meeeeeeeow. Meow meeeow, meeow meeeeeeow me mew mew

all simple, embrace such complicated and artificial objects, and
mew meooow, meeeoow meow meeeeeeooow mew meeeeoooow meeooow, mew

create a rational creature, without trusting anything to the
meeoow m meeoooow meeeeoow, meeeoow meeeeeow meooooow me mew

operation of his reason?
meeeoooow me mew meooow?




But even though all this were admitted, it would not be
Mew meow meeeow mew meow meow meeeeeow, me meeow mew me

satisfactory. Positive laws can certainly transfer property. It
meeeooooooow. Meeeeoow meow mew meoooooow meeeeeow meeeooow. Me

is by another original instinct, that we recognize the authority
me me meeeeow meeeooow meeeeoow, meow me meeeeooow mew meeeoooow

of kings and senates, and mark all the boundaries of their
me meeow mew meeeeow, mew meow mew mew meooooooow me meeow

jurisdiction? Judges too, even though their sentence be erroneous
meeeeeeeeoow? Meooow mew, meow meooow meeow meeeeeow me meeeeooow

and illegal, must be allowed, for the sake of peace and order, to
mew meoooow, meow me meeeoow, mew mew meow me meoow mew meeow, me

have decisive authority, and ultimately to determine property.
meow meeeooow meeeeooow, mew meeeeeeoow me meeeoooow meooooow.

Have we original innate ideas of praetors and chancellors and
Meow me meeeeeow meeeow meoow me meeoooow mew meeeoooooow mew

juries? Who sees not, that all these institutions arise merely
meeoow? Mew meow mew, meow mew meoow meeeeoooooow meeow meeoow

from the necessities of human society?
meow mew meeooooooow me meoow meeooow?




All birds of the same species in every age and country, built
Mew meeow me mew meow meeeoow me meeow mew mew meeeoow, meeow

their nests alike: In this we see the force of instinct. Men, in
meoow meeow meeow: Me meow me mew mew meeow me meeeooow. Mew, me

different times and places, frame their houses differently: Here
meeeeooow meeow mew meooow, meeow meoow meeoow meoooooooow: Meow

we perceive the influence of reason and custom. A like inference
me meeoooow mew meeeeeoow me meeoow mew meeoow. M meow meeeeeoow

may be drawn from comparing the instinct of generation and the
mew me meeow meow meoooooow mew meooooow me meooooooow mew mew

institution of property.
meeeeeeeeow me meooooow.




How great soever the variety of municipal laws, it must be
Mew meoow meooow mew meeooow me meoooooow meow, me meow me

confessed, that their chief outlines pretty regularly concur;
meeeoooow, meow meeow meoow meeeooow meooow meeeeooow meeeow;

because the purposes, to which they tend, are everywhere exactly
meeooow mew meooooow, me meoow meow meow, mew meeeooooow meeeoow

similar. In like manner, all houses have a roof and walls,
meeeoow. Me meow meooow, mew meeeow meow m meow mew meoow,

windows and chimneys; though diversified in their shape, figure,
meeooow mew meooooow; meooow meoooooooow me meeow meeow, meooow,

and materials. The purposes of the latter, directed to the
mew meeeeooow. Mew meooooow me mew meeeow, meeeeeow me mew

conveniencies of human life, discover not more plainly their
meeeeooooooow me meeow meow, meeeeoow mew meow meoooow meeow

origin from reason and reflection, than do those of the former,
meeeow meow meooow mew meeeooooow, meow me meoow me mew meeeow,

which point all to a like end.
meeow meoow mew me m meow mew.




I need not mention the variations, which all the rules of
M meow mew meeooow mew meeeeeeoow, meoow mew mew meeow me

property receive from the finer turns and connexions of the
meeoooow meoooow meow mew meoow meeow mew meooooooow me mew

imagination, and from the subtilties and abstractions of law-
meeeeeeeeow, mew meow mew meeeeoooow mew meeeeeeeeeow me mew-

topics and reasonings. There is no possibility of reconciling
meooow mew meeeeeooow. Meoow me me meeeoooooow me meeeeeeeeow

this observation to the notion of original instincts.
meow meoooooooow me mew meeeow me meooooow meoooooow.




What alone will beget a doubt concerning the theory, on which I
Meow meoow meow meeow m meeow meeeeeooow mew meeoow, me meoow M

insist, is the influence of education and acquired habits, by
meooow, me mew meeeeooow me meoooooow mew meeeeoow meeoow, me

which we are so accustomed to blame injustice, that we are not,
meeow me mew me meeeooooow me meoow meoooooow, meow me mew mew,

in every instance, conscious of any immediate reflection on the
me meeow meeeeeow, meeeeeeow me mew meeeeeoow meeoooooow me mew

pernicious consequences of it. The views the most familiar to us
meeeeeeoow meeeeeeoooow me me. Mew meoow mew meow meooooow me me

are apt, for that very reason, to escape us; and what we have
mew mew, mew meow meow meooow, me meeeow me; mew meow me meow

very frequently performed from certain motives, we are apt
meow meeeeoooow meeooooow meow meeeoow meoooow, me mew mew

likewise to continue mechanically, without recalling, on every
meeeeeow me meeoooow meeeeeeeooow, meeeoow meeooooow, me meeow

occasion, the reflections, which first determined us. The
meeeeeow, mew meeeeeeooow, meoow meeow meeeooooow me. Mew

convenience, or rather necessity, which leads to justice is so
meeeeeeeoow, me meooow meeooooow, meeow meeow me meeeoow me me

universal, and everywhere points so much to the same rules, that
meeooooow, mew meeeooooow meooow me meow me mew meow meoow, meow

the habit takes place in all societies; and it is not without
mew meeow meoow meeow me mew meeeoooow; mew me me mew meeooow

some scrutiny, that we are able to ascertain its true origin. The
meow meeoooow, meow me mew meow me meeooooow mew meow meeeow. Mew

matter, however, is not so obscure, but that even in common life
meooow, meeeoow, me mew me meeeoow, mew meow meow me meooow meow

we have every moment recourse to the principle of public utility,
me meow meeow meeeow meooooow me mew meeeeeoow me meeoow meeooow,

and ask, WHAT MUST BECOME OF THE WORLD, IF SUCH PRACTICES
mew mew, MEOW MEOW MEOOOW ME MEW MEOOW, ME MEOW MEEEEEEOW

PREVAIL? HOW COULD SOCIETY SUBSIST UNDER SUCH DISORDERS? Were the
MEOOOOW? MEW MEOOW MEEEEOW MEEEEOW MEOOW MEOW MEEEEEEOW? Meow mew

distinction or separation of possessions entirely useless, can
meeeoooooow me meeeeeeeow me meeeeeeeoow meeeeeow meeeoow, mew

any one conceive, that it ever should have obtained in society?
mew mew meooooow, meow me meow meeoow meow meeoooow me meeeoow?




Thus we seem, upon the whole, to have attained a knowledge of the
Meow me meow, meow mew meeow, me meow meeoooow m meeeoooow me mew

force of that principle here insisted on, and can determine what
meoow me meow meeeoooow meow meeeeeow me, mew mew meeeoooow meow

degree of esteem or moral approbation may result from reflections
meeeow me meooow me meoow meeeeeeeoow mew meeoow meow meeeeeeeeow

on public interest and utility. The necessity of justice to the
me meeeow meooooow mew meoooow. Mew meoooooow me meoooow me mew

support of society is the sole foundation of that virtue; and
meeeoow me meeooow me mew meow meeeooooow me meow meooow; mew

since no moral excellence is more highly esteemed, we may
meoow me meeow meeeeoooow me meow meooow meeeeeow, me mew

conclude that this circumstance of usefulness has, in general,
meeoooow meow meow meeeeeeeooow me meeeeeeeow mew, me meeooow,

the strongest energy, and most entire command over our
mew meeeeooow meeeow, mew meow meeoow meoooow meow mew

sentiments. It must, therefore, be the source of a considerable
meeeeeooow. Me meow, meoooooow, me mew meeeow me m meeeeeooooow

part of the merit ascribed to humanity, benevolence, friendship,
meow me mew meoow meeeeeow me meeeeeow, meeeeeeeeow, meeeeeooow,

public spirit, and other social virtues of that stamp; as it is
meeoow meeoow, mew meeow meeoow meeooow me meow meeow; me me me

the sole source of the moral approbation paid to fidelity,
mew meow meooow me mew meeow meeeeeoooow meow me meeeeeow,

justice, veracity, integrity, and those other estimable and
meeeoow, meeeeoow, meeooooow, mew meeow meeow meeeeeoow mew

useful qualities and principles. It is entirely agreeable to the
meeoow meeeoooow mew meeoooooow. Me me meeeooow meeeeeeow me mew

rules of philosophy, and even of common reason; where any
meoow me meeoooooow, mew meow me meooow meeeow; meeow mew

principle has been found to have a great force and energy in one
meeeeooow mew meow meoow me meow m meeow meeow mew meooow me mew

instance, to ascribe to it a like energy in all similar
meeoooow, me meeeeow me me m meow meeoow me mew meoooow

instances. This indeed is Newton's chief rule of philosophizing
meeeeeeow. Meow meooow me Meeoow'm meeow meow me meeeeeooooooow

[Footnote: Principia. Lib. iii.].
[Meeoooow: Meeeeeeow. Mew. mew.].










SECTION IV.
MEEOOOW ME.




OF POLITICAL SOCIETY.
ME MEOOOOOOW MEEOOOW.










Had every man sufficient SAGACITY to perceive, at all times, the
Mew meoow mew meeeeoooow MEEEEEOW me meooooow, me mew meeow, mew

strong interest which binds him to the observance of justice and
meeoow meeeeoow meeow meoow mew me mew meeeeeooow me meoooow mew

equity, and STRENGTH OF MIND sufficient to persevere in a steady
meooow, mew MEEEEOOW ME MEOW meeeooooow me meoooooow me m meooow

adherence to a general and a distant interest, in opposition to
meeeoooow me m meeeeow mew m meeeeow meeeooow, me meeoooooow me

the allurements of present pleasure and advantage; there had
mew meeooooooow me meeooow meeeeeow mew meoooooow; meeow mew

never, in that case, been any such thing as government or
meoow, me meow meow, meow mew meow meeow me meeoooooow me

political society, but each man, following his natural liberty,
meeooooow meoooow, mew meow mew, meeeeeoow mew meeeoow meeeoow,

had lived in entire peace and harmony with all others. What need
mew meeow me meeeow meeow mew meoooow meow mew meeeow. Meow meow

of positive law where natural justice is, of itself, a sufficient
me meooooow mew meoow meoooow meoooow me, me meooow, m meeeeoooow

restraint? Why create magistrates, where there never arises any
meeeeeoow? Mew meeeow meeooooooow, meeow meoow meoow meeoow mew

disorder or iniquity? Why abridge our native freedom, when, in
meooooow me meeoooow? Mew meoooow mew meeeow meeooow, meow, me

every instance, the utmost exertion of it is found innocent and
meeow meooooow, mew meeeow meeeooow me me me meeow meooooow mew

beneficial? It is evident, that, if government were totally
meeeeeeeow? Me me meeeoow, meow, me meooooooow meow meeeeow

useless, it never could have place, and that the sole foundation
meoooow, me meeow meoow meow meeow, mew meow mew meow meeoooooow

of the duty of allegiance is the ADVANTAGE, which it procures to
me mew meow me meeeeeeeow me mew MEEEEEEOW, meeow me meeeooow me

society, by preserving peace and order among mankind.
meeeoow, me meooooooow meoow mew meeow meeow meeeoow.




When a number of political societies are erected, and maintain a
Meow m meeeow me meeooooow meoooooow mew meoooow, mew meooooow m

great intercourse together, a new set of rules are immediately
meeow meoooooooow meeeooow, m mew mew me meeow mew meeeeooooow

discovered to be USEFUL in that particular situation; and
meeeeeeoow me me MEEOOW me meow meeeeeeeow meeeeeoow; mew

accordingly take place under the title of Laws of Nations. Of
meeeeeeeoow meow meoow meeow mew meeow me Meow me Meeooow. Me

this kind are, the sacredness of the person of ambassadors,
meow meow mew, mew meeeooooow me mew meooow me meeooooooow,

abstaining from poisoned arms, quarter in war, with others of
meeeeeooow meow meeeeeow meow, meeeoow me mew, meow meeoow me

that kind, which are plainly calculated for the ADVANTAGE of
meow meow, meoow mew meoooow meeeeeeoow mew mew MEEEEOOOW me

states and kingdoms in their intercourse with each other.
meeeow mew meeeooow me meeow meeooooooow meow meow meoow.




The rules of justice, such as prevail among individuals, are not
Mew meoow me meeooow, meow me meeooow meeow meeeoooooow, mew mew

entirely suspended among political societies. All princes pretend
meeeeeow meoooooow meoow meeeoooow meeeeeoow. Mew meoooow meeeeow

a regard to the rights of other princes; and some, no doubt,
m meeeow me mew meooow me meoow meeeoow; mew meow, me meoow,

without hypocrisy. Alliances and treaties are every day made
meeeoow meeeeeeow. Meeeeeoow mew meeoooow mew meoow mew meow

between independent states, which would only be so much waste of
meeooow meeeeeoooow meeeow, meeow meoow meow me me meow meoow me

parchment, if they were not found by experience to have SOME
meeeeeeow, me meow meow mew meeow me meeeeeeeow me meow MEOW

influence and authority. But here is the difference between
meoooooow mew meeeeooow. Mew meow me mew meeeeeeeow meeeoow

kingdoms and individuals. Human nature cannot by any means
meeeeeow mew meeeeeeeoow. Meoow meeeow meooow me mew meeow

subsist, without the association of individuals; and that
meeeoow, meoooow mew meeeeeeooow me meoooooooow; mew meow

association never could have place, were no regard paid to the
meeeeeeeeow meoow meeow meow meeow, meow me meeoow meow me mew

laws of equity and justice. Disorder, confusion, the war of all
meow me meeoow mew meeeeow. Meeeeoow, meeooooow, mew mew me mew

against all, are the necessary consequences of such a licentious
meeeoow mew, mew mew meeeeooow meeeooooooow me meow m meeeeoooow

conduct. But nations can subsist without intercourse. They may
meeeoow. Mew meeeeow mew meeeeow meeooow meeeeeeeoow. Meow mew

even subsist, in some degree, under a general war. The observance
meow meoooow, me meow meeeow, meeow m meeeoow mew. Mew meeeeeooow

of justice, though useful among them, is not guarded by so strong
me meoooow, meeoow meooow meeow meow, me mew meoooow me me meeoow

a necessity as among individuals; and the moral obligation holds
m meeooooow me meoow meeeoooooow; mew mew meeow meeoooooow meoow

proportion with the USEFULNESS. All politicians will allow, and
meeeeeeoow meow mew MEEEEEOOOW. Mew meeeeeoooow meow meoow, mew

most philosophers, that reasons of state may, in particular
meow meeeooooooow, meow meoooow me meoow mew, me meeeeeooow

emergencies, dispense with the rules of justice, and invalidate
meeeeeeeeow, meeeooow meow mew meoow me meeooow, mew meeeeeeoow

any treaty or alliance, where the strict observance of it would
mew meeeow me meeoooow, meoow mew meeeow meeoooooow me me meoow

be prejudicial, in a considerable degree, to either of the
me meeeeeeooow, me m meooooooooow meeoow, me meeoow me mew

contracting parties. But nothing less than the most extreme
meeeeooooow meeeeow. Mew meeeoow meow meow mew meow meeeoow

necessity, it is confessed, can justify individuals in a breach
meeeeooow, me me meeeeooow, mew meeeoow meeeeeeeoow me m meeeow

of promise, or an invasion of the properties of others.
me meeooow, me me meooooow me mew meeeeeooow me meooow.




In a confederated commonwealth, such as the Achaean republic of
Me m meeeeeeeeeow meooooooooow, meow me mew Meeeeow meeeeeow me

old, or the Swiss Cantons and United Provinces in modern times;
mew, me mew Meoow Meeooow mew Meooow Meeooooow me meooow meeow;

as the league has here a peculiar UTILITY, the conditions of
me mew meooow mew meow m meooooow MEEEOOW, mew meeeeoooow me

union have a peculiar sacredness and authority, and a violation
meeow meow m meeoooow meeeeeeeow mew meoooooow, mew m meeeoooow

of them would be regarded as no less, or even as more criminal,
me meow meeow me meeeooow me me meow, me meow me meow meeeooow,

than any private injury or injustice.
meow mew meoooow meeoow me meeeeooow.




The long and helpless infancy of man requires the combination of
Mew meow mew meeeeeow meeeeow me mew meeeeeow mew meeeeeeeoow me

parents for the subsistence of their young; and that combination
meeooow mew mew meeeeeeooow me meeow meoow; mew meow meoooooooow

requires the virtue of chastity or fidelity to the marriage bed.
meeoooow mew meeeow me meooooow me meooooow me mew meeeeeow mew.

Without such a UTILITY, it will readily be owned, that such a
Meeooow meow m MEEEEOW, me meow meoooow me meeow, meow meow m

virtue would never have been thought of.
meeeow meoow meoow meow meow meeeoow me.




[Footnote: The only solution, which Plato gives to all the
[Meeeeoow: Mew meow meooooow, meoow Meeow meoow me mew mew

objections that might be raised against the community of women,
meeoooooow meow meeow me meeeow meeooow mew meeeeeoow me meeow,

established in his imaginary commonwealth, is, [Greek quotation
meeeoooooow me mew meeeoooow meeeeoooooow, me, [Meoow meeeeooow

here]. Scite enim istud et dicitur et dicetur, Id quod utile sit
meow]. Meeow meow meoow me meoooow me meoooow, Me meow meoow mew

honestum esse, quod autem inutile sit turpe esse. [De Rep lib v p
meooooow meow, meow meeow meeeeow mew meeow meow. [Me Mew mew m m

457 ex edit Ser]. And this maxim will admit of no doubt, where
mew me meow Mew]. Mew meow meoow meow meeow me me meoow, meoow

public utility is concerned, which is Plato's meaning. And indeed
meooow meeeoow me meeeeeeow, meoow me Meoow'm meeooow. Mew meeeow

to what other purpose do all the ideas of chastity and modesty
me meow meoow meeeeow me mew mew meeow me meeeeeow mew meeooow

serve? "Nisi utile est quod facimus, frustra est gloria," says
meoow? "Meow meeow mew meow meeeeow, meoooow mew meeoow," meow

Phaedrus." [Greek quotation here]," says Plutarch, de vitioso
Meooooow." [Meoow meoooooow meow]," meow Meeeeoow, me meeeoow

pudore. "Nihil eorum quae damnosa sunt, pulchrum est." The same
meooow. "Meeow meoow meow meeooow meow, meeeeoow mew." Mew meow

was the opinion of the Stoics [Greek quotation here; from Sept.
mew mew meoooow me mew Meeoow [Meoow meeeeooow meow; meow Meow.

Emp lib III cap 20].
Mew mew MEW mew me].




An infidelity of this nature is much more PERNICIOUS in WOMEN
Me meeeooooow me meow meooow me meow meow MEEEEEEOOW me MEEOW

than in MEN. Hence the laws of chastity are much stricter over
meow me MEW. Meoow mew meow me meeeooow mew meow meeoooow meow

the one sex than over the other.
mew mew mew meow meow mew meoow.




These rules have all a reference to generation; and yet women
Meoow meoow meow mew m meeooooow me meeeeeeoow; mew mew meeow

past child-bearing are no more supposed to be exempted from them
meow meeow-meoooow mew me meow meeeeoow me me meeoooow meow meow

than those in the flower of their youth and beauty. GENERAL RULES
meow meeow me mew meeoow me meoow meeow mew meooow. MEEOOOW MEEOW

are often extended beyond the principle whence they first arise;
mew meeow meeeooow meooow mew meeeeooow meeeow meow meoow meoow;

and this in all matters of taste and sentiment. It is a vulgar
mew meow me mew meeeeow me meoow mew meeeeeeow. Me me m meeeow

story at Paris, that, during the rage of the Mississippi, a hump-
meoow me Meeow, meow, meooow mew meow me mew Meeeeooooow, m meow-

backed fellow went every day into the Rue de Quincempoix, where
meeeow meeoow meow meeow mew meow mew Mew me Meeeeeeooow, meoow

the stock-jobbers met in great crowds, and was well paid for
mew meoow-meoooow mew me meeow meooow, mew mew meow meow mew

allowing them to make use of his hump as a desk, in order to sign
meeeeeow meow me meow mew me mew meow me m meow, me meeow me meow

their contracts upon it. Would the fortune, which he raised by
meoow meeooooow meow me. Meoow mew meoooow, meoow me meooow me

this expedient, make him a handsome fellow; though it be
meow meeeoooow, meow mew m meooooow meeeow; meeoow me me

confessed, that personal beauty arises very much from ideas of
meoooooow, meow meeeooow meeeow meeoow meow meow meow meoow me

utility? The imagination is influenced by associations of ideas;
meeeeow? Mew meeeeeoooow me meeeooooow me meeeooooooow me meoow;

which, though they arise at first from the judgement, are not
meeow, meooow meow meoow me meeow meow mew meoooooow, mew mew

easily altered by every particular exception that occurs to us.
meeeow meeooow me meoow meeeeeeoow meoooooow meow meeeow me me.

To which we may add, in the present case of chastity, that the
Me meoow me mew mew, me mew meeeoow meow me meooooow, meow mew

example of the old would be pernicious to the young; and that
meeooow me mew mew meoow me meeeeeeoow me mew meeow; mew meow

women, continually foreseeing that a certain time would bring
meeow, meeeoooooow meooooooow meow m meeeeow meow meeow meoow

them the liberty of indulgence, would naturally advance that
meow mew meeeeow me meeoooooow, meeow meeeeeoow meoooow meow

period, and think more lightly of this whole duty, so requisite
meooow, mew meoow meow meeeoow me meow meoow meow, me meoooooow

to society.
me meeooow.




Those who live in the same family have such frequent
Meoow mew meow me mew meow meooow meow meow meeeooow

opportunities of licence of this kind, that nothing could prevent
meeeeeeeeeeow me meeooow me meow meow, meow meeeoow meoow meeooow

purity of manners, were marriage allowed, among the nearest
meeeow me meoooow, meow meeoooow meeeeow, meeow mew meeooow

relations, or any intercourse of love between them ratified by
meeooooow, me mew meeeoooooow me meow meeeoow meow meeeeoow me

law and custom. Incest, therefore, being PERNICIOUS in a superior
mew mew meeoow. Meeoow, meeeeeoow, meeow MEEEEOOOOW me m meeeooow

degree, has also a superior turpitude and moral deformity annexed
meeeow, mew meow m meeeeeow meoooooow mew meoow meeeeeoow meeooow

to it.
me me.




What is the reason, why, by the Athenian laws, one might marry a
Meow me mew meeoow, mew, me mew Meeeooow meow, mew meeow meeow m

half-sister by the father, but not by the mother? Plainly this:
meow-meeeow me mew meooow, mew mew me mew meeeow? Meoooow meow:

The manners of the Athenians were so reserved, that a man was
Mew meeeeow me mew Meeooooow meow me meeeeoow, meow m mew mew

never permitted to approach the women's apartment, even in the
meeow meeeeeeow me meooooow mew meeow'm meeooooow, meow me mew

same family, unless where he visited his own mother. His step-
meow meeeow, meeoow meoow me meeeeow mew mew meooow. Mew meow-

mother and her children were as much shut up from him as the
meooow mew mew meeeeoow meow me meow meow me meow mew me mew

woman of any other family, and there was as little danger of any
meoow me mew meeow meooow, mew meeow mew me meeeow meeeow me mew

criminal correspondence between them. Uncles and nieces, for a
meeeeoow meeeeeooooooow meeeoow meow. Meeoow mew meeoow, mew m

like reason, might marry at Athens; but neither these, nor half-
meow meeoow, meeow meeow me Meeeow; mew meeeoow meoow, mew meow-

brothers and sisters, could contract that alliance at Rome, where
meeoooow mew meoooow, meoow meeoooow meow meeeeeow me Meow, meeow

the intercourse was more open between the sexes. Public utility
mew meeeeeeooow mew meow meow meoooow mew meeow. Meooow meeeoow

is the cause of all these variations.
me mew meeow me mew meoow meeeeeeoow.




To repeat, to a man's prejudice, anything that escaped him in
Me meooow, me m mew'm meeooooow, meeeeeow meow meeooow mew me

private conversation, or to make any such use of his private
meeeoow meeeeeeeeeow, me me meow mew meow mew me mew meeeoow

letters, is highly blamed. The free and social intercourse of
meeeeow, me meooow meeeow. Mew meow mew meooow meoooooooow me

minds must be extremely checked, where no such rules of fidelity
meeow meow me meoooooow meeooow, meoow me meow meeow me meeeeoow

are established.
mew meeeoooooow.




Even in repeating stories, whence we can foresee no ill
Meow me meeeeeoow meeeoow, meeeow me mew meeooow me mew

consequences to result, the giving of one's author is regarded as
meeoooooooow me meeoow, mew meeoow me mew'm meeeow me meeoooow me

a piece of indiscretion, if not of immorality. These stories, in
m meoow me meeoooooooow, me mew me meooooooow. Meeow meeeoow, me

passing from hand to hand, and receiving all the usual
meeooow meow meow me meow, mew meeeeeoow mew mew meeow

variations, frequently come about to the persons concerned, and
meeeeeeeow, meeeeeooow meow meeow me mew meeeeow meoooooow, mew

produce animosities and quarrels among people, whose intentions
meeeeow meeeeeeeoow mew meeoooow meoow meeoow, meeow meeeooooow

are the most innocent and inoffensive.
mew mew meow meeoooow mew meoooooooow.




To pry into secrets, to open or even read the letters of others,
Me mew meow meeooow, me meow me meow meow mew meoooow me meeeow,

to play the spy upon their words and looks and actions; what
me meow mew mew meow meoow meeow mew meeow mew meeeoow; meow

habits more inconvenient in society? What habits, of consequence,
meooow meow meeeooooooow me meoooow? Meow meooow, me meeeeeeeoow,

more blameable?
meow meoooooow?




This principle is also the foundation of most of the laws of good
Meow meeooooow me meow mew meeeeoooow me meow me mew meow me meow

manners; a kind of lesser morality, calculated for the ease of
meoooow; m meow me meooow meeeooow, meeeeeeeow mew mew meow me

company and conversation. Too much or too little ceremony are
meeeoow mew meooooooooow. Mew meow me mew meeeow meooooow mew

both blamed, and everything, which promotes ease, without an
meow meooow, mew meeeeeeoow, meoow meeeooow meow, meeooow me

indecent familiarity, is useful and laudable.
meooooow meeeoooooow, me meeeow mew meeeooow.




Constancy in friendships, attachments, and familiarities, is
Meoooooow me meeeeeeeoow, meoooooooow, mew meeeeeeeoooow, me

commendable, and is requisite to support trust and good
meeeeeeeeow, mew me meeeoooow me meeooow meeow mew meow

correspondence in society. But in places of general, though
meeeeeeeeeeoow me meoooow. Mew me meeeow me meoooow, meeeow

casual concourse, where the pursuit of health and pleasure brings
meeeow meeeeooow, meoow mew meeooow me meooow mew meeoooow meeeow

people promiscuously together, public conveniency has dispensed
meooow meeeeeeeeeoow meeeeeow, meooow meoooooooow mew meeeeeoow

with this maxim; and custom there promotes an unreserved
meow meow meoow; mew meeoow meoow meooooow me meeeeeeeow

conversation for the time, by indulging the privilege of dropping
meeeeeeoooow mew mew meow, me meeeoooow mew meeeeeeow me meeeeeow

afterwards every indifferent acquaintance, without breach of
meeeeoooow meeow meeeeeoooow meeeooooooow, meeooow meeoow me

civility or good manners.
meeeeoow me meow meeeoow.




Even in societies, which are established on principles the most
Meow me meeeoooow, meeow mew meeooooooow me meeeeeooow mew meow

immoral, and the most destructive to the interests of the general
meoooow, mew mew meow meeeeeeeoow me mew meeeoooow me mew meeeeow

society, there are required certain rules, which a species of
meeeoow, meoow mew meeoooow meeooow meoow, meeow m meoooow me

false honour, as well as private interest, engages the members to
meoow meooow, me meow me meeooow meeeeeow, meeeoow mew meeooow me

observe. Robbers and pirates, it has often been remarked, could
meeooow. Meeeoow mew meeeoow, me mew meeow meow meeoooow, meoow

not maintain their pernicious confederacy, did they not establish
mew meeeooow meeow meeeooooow meoooooooow, mew meow mew meoooooow

a pew distributive justice among themselves, and recall those
m mew meooooooooow meeooow meoow meeeeoooow, mew meeeow meeow

laws of equity, which they have violated with the rest of
meow me meooow, meoow meow meow meeoooow meow mew meow me

mankind.
meeeoow.




I hate a drinking companion, says the Greek proverb, who never
M meow m meeeeeow meeeeooow, meow mew Meoow meeeoow, mew meeow

forgets. The follies of the last debauch should be buried in
meeeoow. Mew meeooow me mew meow meeeeow meooow me meooow me

eternal oblivion, in order to give full scope to the follies of
meeeoow meeeeoow, me meoow me meow meow meoow me mew meoooow me

the next.
mew meow.




Among nations, where an immoral gallantry, if covered with a thin
Meoow meeeoow, meeow me meeeoow meoooooow, me meeeeow meow m meow

veil of mystery, is, in some degree, authorized by custom, there
meow me meoooow, me, me meow meooow, meeoooooow me meooow, meoow

immediately arise a set of rules, calculated for the conveniency
meeeeeeeoow meeow m mew me meoow, meeeeeooow mew mew meeeeooooow

of that attachment. The famous court or parliament of love in
me meow meeoooooow. Mew meooow meeow me meeeooooow me meow me

Provence formerly decided all difficult cases of this nature.
Meeeooow meeeeoow meeeoow mew meeeeeeow meoow me meow meeoow.




In societies for play, there are laws required for the conduct of
Me meeeoooow mew meow, meoow mew meow meooooow mew mew meoooow me

the game; and these laws are different in each game. The
mew meow; mew meoow meow mew meeeoooow me meow meow. Mew

foundation, I own, of such societies is frivolous; and the laws
meeeeeooow, M mew, me meow meeeeeoow me meeeeeeow; mew mew meow

are, in a great measure, though not altogether, capricious and
mew, me m meoow meoooow, meeoow mew meeeeeooow, meooooooow mew

arbitrary. So far is there a material difference between them and
meeeoooow. Me mew me meoow m meeeooow meeeooooow meeeoow meow mew

the rules of justice, fidelity, and loyalty. The general
mew meoow me meeooow, meeeeoow, mew meeooow. Mew meeeoow

societies of men are absolutely requisite for the subsistence of
meoooooow me mew mew meeeeeeeow meeeeeeow mew mew meeeeeeooow me

the species; and the public conveniency, which regulates morals,
mew meeooow; mew mew meeoow meeeoooooow, meeow meeooooow meeeow,

is inviolably established in the nature of man, and of the world,
me meeeeeeoow meeeeeeooow me mew meooow me mew, mew me mew meoow,

in which he lives. The comparison, therefore, in these respects,
me meoow me meoow. Mew meeoooooow, meeeeooow, me meeow meeeooow,

is very imperfect. We may only learn from it the necessity of
me meow meeeeeoow. Me mew meow meeow meow me mew meoooooow me

rules, wherever men have any intercourse with each other.
meoow, meeeooow mew meow mew meeeeeeooow meow meow meoow.




They cannot even pass each other on the road without rules.
Meow meeeow meow meow meow meoow me mew meow meeeoow meeow.

Waggoners, coachmen, and postilions have principles, by which
Meeeoooow, meeoooow, mew meeoooooow meow meeoooooow, me meoow

they give the way; and these are chiefly founded on mutual ease
meow meow mew mew; mew meeow mew meeeeow meeeeow me meooow meow

and convenience. Sometimes also they are arbitrary, at least
mew meoooooooow. Meeooooow meow meow mew meeeeeeow, me meoow

dependent on a kind of capricious analogy like many of the
meeeeeoow me m meow me meeeeeooow meeeoow meow meow me mew

reasonings of lawyers.
meeeooooow me meeeoow.




[Footnote: That the lighter machine yield to the heavier, and, in
[Meooooow: Meow mew meeeeow meoooow meeow me mew meeooow, mew, me

machines of the same kind, that the empty yield to the loaded;
meooooow me mew meow meow, meow mew meoow meeow me mew meooow;

this rule is founded on convenience. That those who are going to
meow meow me meeeeow me meeeoooooow. Meow meeow mew mew meeow me

the capital take place of those who are coming from it; this
mew meeooow meow meeow me meoow mew mew meooow meow me; meow

seems to be founded on some idea of dignity of the great city,
meoow me me meoooow me meow meow me meeeoow me mew meoow meow,

and of the preference of the future to the past. From like
mew me mew meooooooow me mew meooow me mew meow. Meow meow

reasons, among foot-walkers, the right-hand entitles a man to the
meeeeow, meoow meow-meeeoow, mew meeow-meow meeoooow m mew me mew

wall, and prevents jostling, which peaceable people find very
meow, mew meeoooow meeeeoow, meeow meeooooow meeoow meow meow

disagreeable and inconvenient.]
meeeeoooooow mew meeeeeooooow.]




To carry the matter farther, we may observe, that it is
Me meoow mew meooow meoooow, me mew meoooow, meow me me

impossible for men so much as to murder each other without
meeeooooow mew mew me meow me me meeoow meow meoow meeeoow

statutes, and maxims, and an idea of justice and honour. War has
meeoooow, mew meooow, mew me meow me meoooow mew meeeow. Mew mew

its laws as well as peace; and even that sportive kind of war,
mew meow me meow me meeow; mew meow meow meooooow meow me mew,

carried on among wrestlers, boxers, cudgel-players, gladiators,
meeeeow me meeow meeeoooow, meeeow, meooow-meeeoow, meeeooooow,

is regulated by fixed principles. Common interest and utility
me meeeoooow me meeow meeeooooow. Meeeow meeeeoow mew meeooow

beget infallibly a standard of right and wrong among the parties
meoow meeeooooow m meeeeoow me meeow mew meoow meoow mew meeeeow

concerned.
meeeeooow.










SECTION V.
MEEOOOW M.




WHY UTILITY PLEASES.
MEW MEEOOOW MEEEOOW.










PART I.
MEOW M.










It seems so natural a thought to ascribe to their utility the
Me meoow me meeeeow m meeeeow me meeeeow me meeow meoooow mew

praise, which we bestow on the social virtues, that one would
meooow, meoow me meooow me mew meooow meeeoow, meow mew meeow

expect to meet with this principle everywhere in moral writers,
meeoow me meow meow meow meeeeeoow meeeeeooow me meeow meeeeow,

as the chief foundation of their reasoning and enquiry. In common
me mew meoow meeoooooow me meoow meeooooow mew meeooow. Me meeoow

life, we may observe, that the circumstance of utility is always
meow, me mew meeooow, meow mew meeeooooooow me meoooow me meeeow

appealed to; nor is it supposed, that a greater eulogy can be
meeoooow me; mew me me meooooow, meow m meeooow meooow mew me

given to any man, than to display his usefulness to the public,
meeow me mew mew, meow me meeeoow mew meeeooooow me mew meooow,

and enumerate the services, which he has performed to mankind and
mew meeeoooow mew meeeooow, meoow me mew meoooooow me meoooow mew

society. What praise, even of an inanimate form, if the
meoooow. Meow meooow, meow me me meoooooow meow, me mew

regularity and elegance of its parts destroy not its fitness for
meeeeoooow mew meeeeeow me mew meoow meeooow mew mew meeeeow mew

any useful purpose! And how satisfactory an apology for any
mew meeoow meoooow! Mew mew meeeeeooooow me meoooow mew mew

disproportion or seeming deformity, if we can show the necessity
meeeeeeooooow me meeeeow meeeeeoow, me me mew meow mew meeeeeoow

of that particular construction for the use intended! A ship
me meow meeeeeooow meeoooooooow mew mew mew meooooow! M meow

appears more beautiful to an artist, or one moderately skilled in
meeeeow meow meeooooow me me meooow, me mew meeeeeeoow meoooow me

navigation, where its prow is wide and swelling beyond its poop,
meeeeeeeow, meeow mew meow me meow mew meeeeeow meeeow mew meow,

than if it were framed with a precise geometrical regularity, in
meow me me meow meooow meow m meeeeow meoooooooow meeeeeeeow, me

contradiction to all the laws of mechanics. A building, whose
meeeeeeeoooow me mew mew meow me meeeeooow. M meeeeeow, meoow

doors and windows were exact squares, would hurt the eye by that
meeow mew meoooow meow meeow meeooow, meoow meow mew mew me meow

very proportion; as ill adapted to the figure of a human
meow meeeooooow; me mew meeeeow me mew meeeow me m meeow

creature, for whose service the fabric was intended.
meeeooow, mew meoow meoooow mew meeoow mew meeeeeow.




What wonder then, that a man, whose habits and conduct are
Meow meooow meow, meow m mew, meeow meeeow mew meeeoow mew

hurtful to society, and dangerous or pernicious to every one who
meoooow me meoooow, mew meeeeeoow me meeeeeooow me meoow mew mew

has an intercourse with him, should, on that account, be an
mew me meoooooooow meow mew, meeeow, me meow meoooow, me me

object of disapprobation, and communicate to every spectator the
meooow me meeeooooooooow, mew meeeeeeooow me meeow meeeeooow mew

strongest sentiment of disgust and hatred.
meeeeooow meeeeooow me meoooow mew meeeow.










[Footnote: We ought not to imagine, because an inanimate object
[Meeoooow: Me meeow mew me meeeeow, meeeeow me meeeeeoow meeeow

may be useful as well as a man, that therefore it ought also,
mew me meeoow me meow me m mew, meow meoooooow me meeow meow,

according to this system, to merit he appellation of VIRTUOUS.
meeooooow me meow meeoow, me meoow me meoooooooow me MEEEEOOW.

The sentiments, excited by utility, are, in the two cases, very
Mew meeeeoooow, meeooow me meeooow, mew, me mew mew meeow, meow

different; and the one is mixed with affection, esteem,
meeeeeeow; mew mew mew me meeow meow meeooooow, meooow,

approbation, &c., and not the other. In like manner, an inanimate
meeeeeeeeow, &m., mew mew mew meoow. Me meow meeeow, me meeooooow

object may have good colour and proportions as well as a human
meeoow mew meow meow meeeow mew meeeoooooow me meow me m meeow

figure. But can we ever be in love with the former? There are a
meooow. Mew mew me meow me me meow meow mew meooow? Meoow mew m

numerous set of passions and sentiments, of which thinking
meeoooow mew me meeeeoow mew meeeeoooow, me meoow meeeooow

rational beings are, by the original constitution of nature, the
meeeeeow meeoow mew, me mew meeeeeow meeeeeooooow me meeeow, mew

only proper objects: and though the very same qualities be
meow meooow meeooow: mew meeeow mew meow meow meeeeeoow me

transferred to an insensible, inanimate being, they will not
meeeeooooow me me meooooooow, meeooooow meoow, meow meow mew

excite the same sentiments. The beneficial qualities of herbs and
meeoow mew meow meeeooooow. Mew meeeeeeoow meeeeeoow me meoow mew

minerals are, indeed, sometimes called their VIRTUES; but this is
meooooow mew, meeeow, meeeeeoow meeeow meeow MEEOOOW; mew meow me

an effect of the caprice of language, which out not to be
me meeoow me mew meoooow me meooooow, meeow mew mew me me

regarded in reasoning. For though there be a species of
meeeeeow me meeeeeoow. Mew meeeow meoow me m meeeoow me

approbation attending even inanimate objects, when beneficial,
meeeoooooow meeeoooow meow meeeeeeow meeeoow, meow meeeeeeoow,

yet this sentiment is so weak, and so different from that which
mew meow meeeeooow me me meow, mew me meeeeeoow meow meow meoow

is directed to beneficent magistrates or statesman; that they
me meeeooow me meeeeeooow meeeeeeeeow me meeeeeeow; meow meow

ought not to be ranked under the same class or appellation.
meeow mew me me meooow meeow mew meow meeow me meeooooooow.




A very small variation of the object, even where the same
M meow meoow meeeoooow me mew meeeow, meow meeow mew meow

qualities are preserved, will destroy a sentiment. Thus, the same
meeooooow mew meeeeooow, meow meeeeow m meoooooow. Meow, mew meow

beauty, transferred to a different sex, excites no amorous
meooow, meeeoooooow me m meeeeooow mew, meoooow me meoooow

passion, where nature is not extremely perverted.]
meeeeow, meoow meeeow me mew meeeoooow meeeeeoow.]










But perhaps the difficulty of accounting for these effects of
Mew meeooow mew meeeeeeeow me meeeooooow mew meeow meeooow me

usefulness, or its contrary, has kept philosophers from admitting
meeeooooow, me mew meeeeeow, mew meow meeeeoooooow meow meoooooow

them into their systems of ethics, and has induced them rather to
meow meow meeow meeeeow me meeeow, mew mew meoooow meow meeeow me

employ any other principle, in explaining the origin of moral
meeoow mew meeow meoooooow, me meeeeoooow mew meeoow me meeow

good and evil. But it is no just reason for rejecting any
meow mew meow. Mew me me me meow meeoow mew meeeeeoow mew

principle, confirmed by experience, that we cannot give a
meeooooow, meeeeooow me meooooooow, meow me meeoow meow m

satisfactory account of its origin, nor are able to resolve it
meeoooooooow meoooow me mew meeoow, mew mew meow me meeeoow me

into other more general principles. And if we would employ a
meow meeow meow meeeeow meeoooooow. Mew me me meeow meooow m

little thought on the present subject, we need be at no loss to
meeeow meeeeow me mew meeeoow meeeoow, me meow me me me meow me

account for the influence of utility, and to deduce it from
meeeeow mew mew meeeeooow me meeeeow, mew me meeeow me meow

principles, the most known and avowed in human nature.
meeeeeeeow, mew meow meeow mew meeoow me meoow meeeow.




From the apparent usefulness of the social virtues, it has
Meow mew meeoooow meeeeeeeow me mew meeeow meoooow, me mew

readily been inferred by sceptics, both ancient and modern, that
meeeoow meow meeeeeow me meooooow, meow meeeoow mew meeeow, meow

all moral distinctions arise from education, and were, at first,
mew meeow meeeeeeeooow meeow meow meeeoooow, mew meow, me meoow,

invented, and afterwards encouraged, by the art of politicians,
meooooow, mew meeoooooow meeeeeeeow, me mew mew me meeeeeeeoow,

in order to render men tractable, and subdue their natural
me meoow me meooow mew meeeeooow, mew meeeow meoow meoooow

ferocity and selfishness, which incapacitated them for society.
meeeooow mew meeeoooooow, meeow meeooooooooow meow mew meeeeow.

This principle, indeed, of precept and education, must so far be
Meow meeooooow, meeoow, me meeeeow mew meeeeeeow, meow me mew me

owned to have a powerful influence, that it may frequently
meeow me meow m meeeooow meoooooow, meow me mew meeeeoooow

increase or diminish, beyond their natural standard, the
meooooow me meeeeeow, meooow meoow meeooow meeeooow, mew

sentiments of approbation or dislike; and may even, in particular
meeoooooow me meeeeooooow me meeeoow; mew mew meow, me meeeeeooow

instances, create, without any natural principle, a new sentiment
meoooooow, meeeow, meeooow mew meeooow meeeeeoow, m mew meeeeeeow

of this kind; as is evident in all superstitious practices and
me meow meow; me me meoooow me mew meoooooooooow meeooooow mew

observances: But that ALL moral affection or dislike arises from
meeeeeoooow: Mew meow MEW meoow meeooooow me meeeeow meooow meow

this origin, will never surely be allowed by any judicious
meow meeoow, meow meeow meeeow me meeeeow me mew meeooooow

enquirer. Had nature made no such distinction, founded on the
meeeeeow. Mew meeoow meow me meow meeeoooooow, meeeoow me mew

original constitution of the mind, the words, HONOURABLE and
meeeeeow meeeeeeeeeow me mew meow, mew meoow, MEEOOOOOOW mew

SHAMEFUL, LOVELY and ODIOUS, NOBLE and DESPICABLE, had never had
MEOOOOOW, MEOOOW mew MEOOOW, MEEOW mew MEEEEOOOOW, mew meeow mew

place in any language; nor could politicians, had they invented
meoow me mew meeeeeow; mew meeow meeeeooooow, mew meow meeeooow

these terms, ever have been able to render them intelligible, or
meoow meoow, meow meow meow meow me meeoow meow meeoooooooow, me

make them convey any idea to the audience. So that nothing can be
meow meow meeeow mew meow me mew meeeeeow. Me meow meeooow mew me

more superficial than this paradox of the sceptics; and it were
meow meoooooooow meow meow meeeoow me mew meeoooow; mew me meow

well, if, in the abstruser studies of logic and metaphysics, we
meow, me, me mew meeeeeeow meoooow me meeow mew meeeeeeeoow, me

could as easily obviate the cavils of that sect, as in the
meoow me meooow meeooow mew meooow me meow meow, me me mew

practical and more intelligible sciences of politics and morals.
meeooooow mew meow meeeeeeoooow meeeeoow me meeeooow mew meeoow.




The social virtues must, therefore, be allowed to have a natural
Mew meooow meeeeow meow, meoooooow, me meeeeow me meow m meoooow

beauty and amiableness, which, at first, antecedent to all
meeeow mew meeeeooooow, meeow, me meoow, meeeeeooow me mew

precept or education, recommends them to the esteem of
meoooow me meeeeeeow, meeeeeeoow meow me mew meeoow me

uninstructed mankind, and engages their affections. And as the
meeeooooooow meoooow, mew meeooow meeow meooooooow. Mew me mew

public utility of these virtues is the chief circumstance, whence
meeoow meeeeow me meoow meeeoow me mew meeow meeoooooooow, meooow

they derive their merit, it follows, that the end, which they
meow meeoow meoow meeow, me meeeoow, meow mew mew, meeow meow

have a tendency to promote, must be some way agreeable to us, and
meow m meeoooow me meoooow, meow me meow mew meeooooow me me, mew

take hold of some natural affection. It must please, either from
meow meow me meow meeeeow meeeoooow. Me meow meooow, meeeow meow

considerations of self-interest, or from more generous motives
meeeeeeeeoooow me meow-meeoooow, me meow meow meooooow meoooow

and regards.
mew meeooow.




It has often been asserted, that, as every man has a strong
Me mew meoow meow meeoooow, meow, me meeow mew mew m meeeow

connexion with society, and perceives the impossibility of his
meeeoooow meow meoooow, mew meeeeeeow mew meeeeeeooooow me mew

solitary subsistence, he becomes, on that account, favourable to
meeeeeow meeooooooow, me meeooow, me meow meoooow, meeeeeooow me

all those habits or principles, which promote order in society,
mew meeow meeoow me meeoooooow, meoow meoooow meeow me meeeoow,

and insure to him the quiet possession of so inestimable a
mew meooow me mew mew meeow meeeooooow me me meeeeeeeoow m

blessing, As much as we value our own happiness and welfare, as
meooooow, Me meow me me meoow mew mew meeeeeeow mew meeooow, me

much must we applaud the practice of justice and humanity, by
meow meow me meeeeow mew meeoooow me meeeoow mew meeoooow, me

which alone the social confederacy can be maintained, and every
meeow meoow mew meeeow meeeeeeeoow mew me meeoooooow, mew meoow

man reap the fruits of mutual protection and assistance.
mew meow mew meeeow me meooow meeeeeeeow mew meeeeeeeow.




This deduction of morals from self-love, or a regard to private
Meow meeeeeeow me meooow meow meow-meow, me m meooow me meeooow

interest, is an obvious thought, and has not arisen wholly from
meeeeeow, me me meeeeow meeeeow, mew mew mew meeoow meeoow meow

the wanton sallies and sportive assaults of the sceptics. To
mew meeeow meeeeow mew meeoooow meeeeeow me mew meeeooow. Me

mention no others, Polybius, one of the gravest and most
meeeeow me meooow, Meeoooow, mew me mew meeeoow mew meow

judicious, as well as most moral writers of antiquity, has
meeeoooow, me meow me meow meoow meeeoow me meoooooow, mew

assigned this selfish origin to all our sentiments of virtue.
meooooow meow meeeoow meeeow me mew mew meeeeeeeow me meooow.

[Footnote: Undutifulness to parents is disapproved of by mankind,
[Meeeooow: Meeeeeeooooow me meeooow me meeooooooow me me meeeoow,

[Greek quotation inserted here]. Ingratitude for a like reason
[Meoow meeeeeoow meooooow meow]. Meeeeeeooow mew m meow meeoow

(though he seems there to mix a more generous regard) [Greek
(meeeow me meeow meeow me mew m meow meeoooow meeeow) [Meoow

quotation inserted here] Lib. vi cap. 4. (Ed. Gronorius.) Perhaps
meeeeeoow meeeooow meow] Mew. me mew. m. (Me. Meoooooow.) Meeooow

the historian only meant, that our sympathy and humanity was more
mew meeeeeeow meow meoow, meow mew meooooow mew meeeeoow mew meow

enlivened, by our considering the similarity of our case with
meeeoooow, me mew meeeeeeooow mew meeeooooow me mew meow meow

that of the person suffering; which is a just sentiment.] But
meow me mew meooow meoooooow; meoow me m meow meeeoooow.] Mew

though the solid practical sense of that author, and his aversion
meeoow mew meoow meeooooow meoow me meow meooow, mew mew meeeeeow

to all vain subtilties, render his authority on the present
me mew meow meeeooooow, meeeow mew meeeoooow me mew meeeoow

subject very considerable; yet is not this an affair to be
meoooow meow meeeeeooooow; mew me mew meow me meooow me me

decided by authority, and the voice of nature and experience
meeooow me meeeeooow, mew mew meoow me meooow mew meeeooooow

seems plainly to oppose the selfish theory.
meeow meeooow me meeoow mew meoooow meooow.




We frequently bestow praise on virtuous actions, performed in
Me meeeeeooow meeeow meeeow me meeeeeow meeeoow, meeeeeeow me

very distant ages and remote countries; where the utmost subtilty
meow meeeoow meow mew meeoow meeooooow; meoow mew meeoow meeoooow

of imagination would not discover any appearance of self-
me meeeeeoooow meoow mew meeoooow mew meeeeeeeow me meow-

interest, or find any connexion of our present happiness and
meeeooow, me meow mew meeooooow me mew meeeoow meeeeeoow mew

security with events so widely separated from us.
meooooow meow meeoow me meeeow meoooooow meow me.




A generous, a brave, a noble deed, performed by an adversary,
M meeoooow, m meeow, m meoow meow, meoooooow me me meeeeooow,

commands our approbation; while in its consequences it may be
meeeeeow mew meeeeeeooow; meeow me mew meeeeeeoooow me mew me

acknowledged prejudicial to our particular interest.
meeoooooooow meeeeeeooow me mew meeeeeeeow meooooow.




Where private advantage concurs with general affection for
Meoow meeooow meeeeeeow meoooow meow meeooow meeeeeoow mew

virtue, we readily perceive and avow the mixture of these
meeeow, me meeeeow meeeeoow mew meow mew meeooow me meoow

distinct sentiments, which have a very different feeling and
meeoooow meeeooooow, meeow meow m meow meeeeooow meeooow mew

influence on the mind. We praise, perhaps, with more alacrity,
meeeoooow me mew meow. Me meeeow, meeeeow, meow meow meeoooow,

where the generous humane action contributes to our particular
meeow mew meeoooow meooow meeeow meeeoooooow me mew meeoooooow

interest: But the topics of praise, which we insist on, are very
meeeeeow: Mew mew meeoow me meooow, meoow me meooow me, mew meow

wide of this circumstance. And we may attempt to bring over
meow me meow meeeeeooooow. Mew me mew meeooow me meeow meow

others to our sentiments, without endeavouring to convince them,
meooow me mew meeeeeeoow, meeeoow meeeeeeeeeow me meeoooow meow,

that they reap any advantage from the actions which we recommend
meow meow meow mew meoooooow meow mew meeooow meeow me meeeeeoow

to their approbation and applause.
me meeow meeeeeoooow mew meeeooow.




Frame the model of a praiseworthy character, consisting of all
Meoow mew meoow me m meeeooooooow meeooooow, meeeeoooow me mew

the most amiable moral virtues: Give instances, in which these
mew meow meeeeow meeow meeooow: Meow meoooooow, me meeow meeow

display themselves after an eminent and extraordinary manner: You
meoooow meeeeeeeow meeow me meoooow mew meeeeeeooooow meooow: Mew

readily engage the esteem and approbation of all your audience,
meeeeow meooow mew meeeow mew meeooooooow me mew meow meooooow,

who never so much as enquire in what age and country the person
mew meeow me meow me meeeeow me meow mew mew meeeoow mew meeoow

lived, who possessed these noble qualities: A circumstance,
meoow, mew meeeeooow meoow meeow meeeoooow: M meeeeeeeeoow,

however, of all others, the most material to self-love, or a
meeeeow, me mew meeoow, mew meow meeeeeow me meow-meow, me m

concern for our own individual happiness. Once on a time, a
meeeeow mew mew mew meeeeoooow meeeeeeow. Meow me m meow, m

statesman, in the shock and contest of parties, prevailed so far
meoooooow, me mew meeow mew meoooow me meeeoow, meeeeooow me mew

as to procure, by his eloquence, the banishment of an able
me me meoooow, me mew meeeeeoow, mew meeeooooow me me meow

adversary; whom he secretly followed, offering him money for his
meeeeeoow; meow me meooooow meeeeoow, meeeeeow mew meeow mew mew

support during his exile, and soothing him with topics of
meoooow meooow mew meoow, mew meooooow mew meow meooow me

consolation in his misfortunes. ALAS! cries the banished
meeooooooow me mew meeeeooooow. MEOW! meoow mew meeoooow

statesman, WITH WHAT REGRET MUST I LEAVE MY FRIENDS IN THIS CITY,
meoooooow, MEOW MEOW MEEOOW MEOW M MEEOW ME MEEEEOW ME MEOW MEOW,

WHERE EVEN ENEMIES ARE SO GENEROUS! Virtue, though in an enemy,
MEEOW MEOW MEOOOOW MEW ME MEEEEOOW! Meooow, meeoow me me meoow,

here pleased him: And we also give it the just tribute of praise
meow meeeeow mew: Mew me meow meow me mew meow meoooow me meeoow

and approbation; nor do we retract these sentiments, when we
mew meeeeeeeoow; mew me me meeeoow meoow meeeooooow, meow me

hear, that the action passed at Athens, about two thousand years
meow, meow mew meeoow meeeow me Meeoow, meeow mew meeoooow meoow

ago, and that the persons' names were Eschines and Demosthenes.
mew, mew meow mew meeeoow' meoow meow Meooooow mew Meeeeeeeeow.




WHAT IS THAT TO ME? There are few occasions, when this question
MEOW ME MEOW ME ME? Meeow mew mew meeeeeeow, meow meow meeeeeow

is not pertinent: And had it that universal, infallible influence
me mew meeeeooow: Mew mew me meow meeeoooow, meeeooooow meeeeooow

supposed, it would turn into ridicule every composition, and
meeeeoow, me meeow meow meow meeeooow meoow meoooooooow, mew

almost every conversation, which contain any praise or censure of
meeeow meeow meeeeeeoooow, meoow meoooow mew meeoow me meeeeow me

men and manners.
mew mew meeooow.




It is but a weak subterfuge, when pressed by these facts and
Me me mew m meow meeeeeeoow, meow meoooow me meeow meeow mew

arguments, to say, that we transport ourselves, by the force of
meeeoooow, me mew, meow me meeeeooow meeeeeoow, me mew meoow me

imagination, into distant ages and countries, and consider the
meeooooooow, meow meoooow meow mew meoooooow, mew meooooow mew

advantage, which we should have reaped from these characters, had
meeeoooow, meeow me meeeow meow meeeow meow meeow meeeeeeoow, mew

we been contemporaries, and had any commerce with the persons. It
me meow meeeeoooooooow, mew mew mew meeeeeow meow mew meeooow. Me

is not conceivable, how a REAL sentiment or passion can ever
me mew meeeeeoooow, mew m MEOW meeooooow me meoooow mew meow

arise from a known IMAGINARY interest; especially when our REAL
meoow meow m meeow MEEOOOOOW meeeeeow; meeeooooow meow mew MEOW

interest is still kept in view, and is often acknowledged to be
meeeooow me meeow meow me meow, mew me meoow meeeeeeeooow me me

entirely distinct from the imaginary, and even sometimes opposite
meeeeoow meeoooow meow mew meeeoooow, mew meow meeeeooow meeeeeow

to it.
me me.




A man, brought to the brink of a precipice, cannot look down
M mew, meeooow me mew meeow me m meeeeeeow, meeoow meow meow

without trembling; and the sentiment of IMAGINARY danger actuates
meeeeow meoooooow; mew mew meeeoooow me MEOOOOOOW meooow meeeeoow

him, in opposition to the opinion and belief of REAL safety. But
mew, me meeeeeooow me mew meeeeow mew meooow me MEOW meeeow. Mew

the imagination is here assisted by the presence of a striking
mew meeeeeeeeow me meow meeeooow me mew meeeooow me m meooooow

object; and yet prevails not, except it be also aided by novelty,
meeeow; mew mew meeoooow mew, meeoow me me meow meeow me meeeoow,

and the unusual appearance of the object. Custom soon reconciles
mew mew meeeeow meeoooooow me mew meeoow. Meooow meow meeeeoooow

us to heights and precipices, and wears off these false and
me me meeeeow mew meeoooooow, mew meoow mew meoow meoow mew

delusive terrors. The reverse is observable in the estimates
meeeeeow meeeoow. Mew meeeoow me meeeeeeeow me mew meeooooow

which we form of characters and manners; and the more we
meeow me meow me meeeeeooow mew meeeeow; mew mew meow me

habituate ourselves to an accurate scrutiny of morals, the more
meoooooow meeeeeeow me me meeeooow meeeeoow me meooow, mew meow

delicate feeling do we acquire of the most minute distinctions
meeeeeow meeeoow me me meoooow me mew meow meeoow meooooooooow

between vice and virtue. Such frequent occasion, indeed, have we,
meeooow meow mew meeeow. Meow meeoooow meeeooow, meeeow, meow me,

in common life, to pronounce all kinds of moral determinations,
me meeoow meow, me meeeeeeow mew meeow me meoow meeeeeeeeeeoow,

that no object of this kind can be new or unusual to us; nor
meow me meeoow me meow meow mew me mew me meoooow me me; mew

could any FALSE views or prepossessions maintain their ground
meeow mew MEEOW meoow me meeeeeeeeeooow meeoooow meeow meeeow

against an experience, so common and familiar. Experience being
meeeoow me meeoooooow, me meeoow mew meeeooow. Meeeeeooow meeow

chiefly what forms the associations of ideas, it is impossible
meoooow meow meoow mew meeoooooooow me meoow, me me meeoooooow

that any association could establish and support itself, in
meow mew meeeeeoooow meeow meeeeeoow mew meeeoow meeoow, me

direct opposition to that principle.
meooow meeeeeeeow me meow meoooooow.




Usefulness is agreeable, and engages our approbation. This is a
Meeeeeeeow me meeooooow, mew meoooow mew meoooooooow. Meow me m

matter of fact, confirmed by daily observation. But, USEFUL? For
meeoow me meow, meeooooow me meeow meeeeeeeoow. Mew, MEEEOW? Mew

what? For somebody's interest, surely. Whose interest then? Not
meow? Mew meeoooow'm meooooow, meeeow. Meeow meeoooow meow? Mew

our own only: For our approbation frequently extends farther. It
mew mew meow: Mew mew meeeoooooow meooooooow meoooow meeooow. Me

must, therefore, be the interest of those, who are served by the
meow, meeeoooow, me mew meeoooow me meeow, mew mew meooow me mew

character or action approved of; and these we may conclude,
meeeeeoow me meeeow meeeeeow me; mew meoow me mew meeeooow,

however remote, are not totally indifferent to us. By opening up
meeeeow meeoow, mew mew meeeoow meeooooooow me me. Me meoooow me

this principle, we shall discover one great source of moral
meow meeeeooow, me meeow meeoooow mew meeow meooow me meeow

distinctions.
meeeeoooooow.










PART II.
MEOW ME.










Self-love is a principle in human nature of such extensive
Meow-meow me m meeooooow me meeow meeeow me meow meeeeooow

energy, and the interest of each individual is, in general, so
meeoow, mew mew meeeeeow me meow meeoooooow me, me meoooow, me

closely connected with that of the community, that those
meeooow meeeoooow meow meow me mew meeeoooow, meow meoow

philosophers were excusable, who fancied that all our concern for
meeeeeeeeoow meow meeeeooow, mew meeeoow meow mew mew meeeeow mew

the public might be resolved into a concern for our own happiness
mew meeeow meeow me meeeeoow meow m meoooow mew mew mew meoooooow

and preservation. They saw every moment, instances of approbation
mew meeeeeooooow. Meow mew meoow meooow, meeeeooow me meeeoooooow

or blame, satisfaction or displeasure towards characters and
me meeow, meeeeeeeooow me meoooooooow meoooow meooooooow mew

actions; they denominated the objects of these sentiments,
meeeoow; meow meeeeooooow mew meeeeow me meeow meeoooooow,

VIRTUES, or VICES; they observed, that the former had a tendency
MEEEEOW, me MEOOW; meow meeeeoow, meow mew meeoow mew m meeeeeow

to increase the happiness, and the latter the misery of mankind;
me meeoooow mew meoooooow, mew mew meeeow mew meooow me meeeeow;

they asked, whether it were possible that we could have any
meow meoow, meoooow me meow meeeeoow meow me meoow meow mew

general concern for society, or any disinterested resentment of
meeeoow meeooow mew meoooow, me mew meeeeeeeeeeow meooooooow me

the welfare or injury of others; they found it simpler to
mew meoooow me meeeow me meeeow; meow meeow me meeeeow me

consider all these sentiments as modifications of self-love; and
meooooow mew meeow meeeooooow me meoooooooooow me meow-meow; mew

they discovered a pretence, at least, for this unity of
meow meeeeeooow m meeeooow, me meeow, mew meow meeow me

principle, in that close union of interest, which is so
meeeeeeow, me meow meoow meeow me meeoooow, meoow me me

observable between the public and each individual.
meooooooow meeeeow mew meooow mew meow meeeeeooow.




But notwithstanding this frequent confusion of interests, it is
Mew meeeeeeeeeoooow meow meeoooow meeeeooow me meeeeooow, me me

easy to attain what natural philosophers, after Lord Bacon, have
meow me meeoow meow meeeoow meeeooooooow, meeow Meow Meeow, meow

affected to call the experimentum crucis, or that experiment
meeeooow me meow mew meooooooooow meeoow, me meow meeeeeeeow

which points out the right way in any doubt or ambiguity. We have
meeow meooow mew mew meeow mew me mew meoow me meeeeeoow. Me meow

found instances, in which private interest was separate from
meoow meoooooow, me meeow meeooow meeeeoow mew meeeeeow meow

public; in which it was even contrary: And yet we observed the
meeeow; me meoow me mew meow meeeeeow: Mew mew me meeeooow mew

moral sentiment to continue, notwithstanding this disjunction of
meoow meeeeeeow me meeeooow, meeeeeeeeeeooow meow meeeeeoooow me

interests. And wherever these distinct interests sensibly
meeeoooow. Mew meooooow meoow meooooow meeeeooow meeeeoow

concurred, we always found a sensible increase of the sentiment,
meeeeeoow, me meeeow meeow m meeeeeow meeeooow me mew meoooooow,

and a more warm affection to virtue, and detestation of vice, or
mew m meow meow meeooooow me meeoow, mew meoooooooow me meow, me

what we properly call, GRATITUDE and REVENGE. Compelled by these
meow me meeeeeow meow, MEEEOOOOW mew MEEEEOW. Meeeoooow me meeow

instances, we must renounce the theory, which accounts for every
meoooooow, me meow meeeooow mew meooow, meeow meeeeoow mew meoow

moral sentiment by the principle of self-love. We must adopt a
meeow meeeoooow me mew meoooooow me meow-meow. Me meow meoow m

more public affection, and allow, that the interests of society
meow meooow meeeeeoow, mew meeow, meow mew meeeeeoow me meoooow

are not, even on their own account, entirely indifferent to us.
mew mew, meow me meoow mew meeeeow, meeeeeow meeeeooooow me me.

Usefulness is only a tendency to a certain end; and it is a
Meeeeeeoow me meow m meeeooow me m meeeeow mew; mew me me m

contradiction in terms, that anything pleases as means to an end,
meeeeooooooow me meoow, meow meeeeoow meeeeow me meoow me me mew,

where the end itself no wise affects us. If usefulness,
meeow mew mew meeeow me meow meoooow me. Me meeeeeeeow,

therefore, be a source of moral sentiment, and if this usefulness
meeeeeoow, me m meeoow me meeow meeeeeeow, mew me meow meeeeeeeow

be not always considered with a reference to self; it follows,
me mew meeeow meeeooooow meow m meoooooow me meow; me meoooow,

that everything, which contributes to the happiness of society,
meow meeeeeeeow, meeow meeeoooooow me mew meeeeeoow me meeeoow,

recommends itself directly to our approbation and good-will. Here
meeoooooow meeoow meeeeoow me mew meeeeeoooow mew meow-meow. Meow

is a principle, which accounts, in great part, for the origin of
me m meeeeeeow, meeow meooooow, me meeow meow, mew mew meeeow me

morality: And what need we seek for abstruse and remote systems,
meeeooow: Mew meow meow me meow mew meeoooow mew meooow meeeoow,

when there occurs one so obvious and natural?
meow meoow meeoow mew me meoooow mew meeeoow?




[FOOTNOTE: It is needless to push our researches so far as to
[MEEEEEOW: Me me meeeeeow me meow mew meeeooooow me mew me me

ask, why we have humanity or a fellow-feeling with others. It is
mew, mew me meow meeoooow me m meeeow-meeooow meow meeoow. Me me

sufficient, that this is experienced to be a principle in human
meeeooooow, meow meow me meoooooooow me me m meeeeeeow me meeow

nature. We must stop somewhere in our examination of causes; and
meooow. Me meow meow meeeeeeow me mew meeeeeoooow me meeoow; mew

there are, in every science, some general principles, beyond
meeow mew, me meeow meeeoow, meow meeeeow meeeooooow, meeeow

which we cannot hope to find any principle more general. No man
meoow me meeeow meow me meow mew meeeeeoow meow meeeoow. Me mew

is absolutely indifferent to the happiness and misery of others.
me meeoooooow meeeeooooow me mew meeooooow mew meooow me meeoow.

The first has a natural tendency to give pleasure; the second,
Mew meeow mew m meeeeow meooooow me meow meeeeeow; mew meeeow,

pain. This every one may find in himself. It is not probable,
meow. Meow meeow mew mew meow me meeeoow. Me me mew meeeeoow,

that these principles can be resolved into principles more simple
meow meoow meeeeeeoow mew me meeeooow meow meeeeeeoow meow meeoow

and universal, whatever attempts may have been made to that
mew meeeoooow, meeoooow meeeeoow mew meow meow meow me meow

purpose. But if it were possible, it belongs not to the present
meeeeow. Mew me me meow meeeeoow, me meeeoow mew me mew meeeoow

subject; and we may here safely consider these principles as
meoooow; mew me mew meow meeeow meeeeoow meoow meooooooow me

original; happy, if we can render all the consequences
meeeooow; meeow, me me mew meooow mew mew meeeeeeeeoow

sufficiently plain and perspicuous!]
meeeooooooow meeow mew meoooooooow!]




Have we any difficulty to comprehend the force of humanity and
Meow me mew meeeeeeoow me meeeooooow mew meoow me meeoooow mew

benevolence? Or to conceive, that the very aspect of happiness,
meeeeeeooow? Me me meeeooow, meow mew meow meeeow me meeeoooow,

joy, prosperity, gives pleasure; that of pain, suffering, sorrow,
mew, meeoooooow, meeow meeeeeow; meow me meow, meoooooow, meooow,

communicates uneasiness? The human countenance, says Horace ['Uti
meeeeeooooow meeeeeooow? Mew meeow meeeeeeooow, meow Meeeow ['Mew

ridentibus arrident, ita flentibus adflent Humani vultus,'--
meeeeeeoow meeeeeow, mew meeeeeeow meoooow Meeoow meeeow,'--

Hor.], borrows smiles or tears from the human countenance. Reduce
Mew.], meeeoow meooow me meeow meow mew meoow meeeeeeooow. Meooow

a person to solitude, and he loses all enjoyment, except either
m meeeow me meeoooow, mew me meoow mew meeooooow, meooow meooow

of the sensual or speculative kind; and that because the
me mew meoooow me meeooooooow meow; mew meow meoooow mew

movements of his heart are not forwarded by correspondent
meeooooow me mew meeow mew mew meeooooow me meeeeeeeeeoow

movements in his fellow-creatures. The signs of sorrow and
meeeoooow me mew meooow-meeeeeeow. Mew meeow me meooow mew

mourning, though arbitrary, affect us with melancholy; but the
meeeooow, meooow meoooooow, meeoow me meow meeeeeeoow; mew mew

natural symptoms, tears and cries and groans, never fail to
meeooow meeeeeow, meeow mew meeow mew meooow, meeow meow me

infuse compassion and uneasiness. And if the effects of misery
meeeow meooooooow mew meeoooooow. Mew me mew meoooow me meeoow

touch us in so lively a manner; can we be supposed altogether
meoow me me me meeoow m meeeow; mew me me meeeeeow meeeeeeeow

insensible or indifferent towards its causes; when a malicious or
meeeeeeeow me meeeoooooow meoooow mew meooow; meow m meeeoooow me

treacherous character and behaviour are presented to us?
meoooooooow meeooooow mew meeooooow mew meeeeeeow me me?




We enter, I shall suppose, into a convenient, warm, well-
Me meoow, M meoow meeooow, meow m meeeeeooow, meow, meow-

contrived apartment: We necessarily receive a pleasure from its
meeooooow meeeeeoow: Me meeeeeeeeow meeooow m meeeeoow meow mew

very survey; because it presents us with the pleasing ideas of
meow meeeow; meeeoow me meooooow me meow mew meooooow meoow me

ease, satisfaction, and enjoyment. The hospitable, good-humoured,
meow, meeeeeeeooow, mew meeeeooow. Mew meeoooooow, meow-meeeooow,

humane landlord appears. This circumstance surely must embellish
meeoow meeoooow meeeoow. Meow meooooooooow meooow meow meeeeeoow

the whole; nor can we easily forbear reflecting, with pleasure,
mew meoow; mew mew me meooow meoooow meeoooooow, meow meeeeeow,

on the satisfaction which results to every one from his
me mew meeeeoooooow meeow meeeoow me meeow mew meow mew

intercourse and good-offices.
meeeeeeeoow mew meow-meeeeow.




His whole family, by the freedom, ease, confidence, and calm
Mew meoow meooow, me mew meeooow, meow, meeoooooow, mew meow

enjoyment, diffused over their countenances, sufficiently express
meeooooow, meeeeeow meow meeow meeeeeeeeoow, meooooooooow meoooow

their happiness. I have a pleasing sympathy in the prospect of so
meoow meeeeooow. M meow m meeeeoow meeeooow me mew meooooow me me

much joy, and can never consider the source of it, without the
meow mew, mew mew meeow meooooow mew meeeow me me, meeooow mew

most agreeable emotions.
meow meeeeooow meeoooow.




He tells me, that an oppressive and powerful neighbour had
Me meeow me, meow me meooooooow mew meeoooow meeeeeoow mew

attempted to dispossess him of his inheritance, and had long
meeeeooow me meeeeeeeow mew me mew meeeeooooow, mew mew meow

disturbed all his innocent and social pleasures. I feel an
meeeeeoow mew mew meeoooow mew meeeow meoooooow. M meow me

immediate indignation arise in me against such violence and
meeeeooow meeeeeoooow meoow me me meoooow meow meooooow mew

injury.
meooow.




But it is no wonder, he adds, that a private wrong should proceed
Mew me me me meeoow, me meow, meow m meeeeow meoow meooow meeooow

from a man, who had enslaved provinces, depopulated cities, and
meow m mew, mew mew meeeeeow meeooooow, meeeeooooow meeeow, mew

made the field and scaffold stream with human blood. I am struck
meow mew meeow mew meeeeoow meeeow meow meeow meeow. M me meeoow

with horror at the prospect of so much misery, and am actuated by
meow meooow me mew meeeeoow me me meow meeoow, mew me meeeeeow me

the strongest antipathy against its author.
mew meeeeeoow meeeeooow meeeeow mew meeeow.




In general, it is certain, that, wherever we go, whatever we
Me meoooow, me me meoooow, meow, meooooow me me, meeeeoow me

reflect on or converse about, everything still presents us with
meeooow me me meeeeoow meeow, meeeeoooow meeow meooooow me meow

the view of human happiness or misery, and excites in our breast
mew meow me meeow meeeoooow me meeoow, mew meeeoow me mew meeoow

a sympathetic movement of pleasure or uneasiness. In our serious
m meeeeeeeeow meeeeeow me meeoooow me meeeeeeoow. Me mew meeeeow

occupations, in our careless amusements, this principle still
meeeeeeooow, me mew meeeeoow meeeeeooow, meow meeeeeoow meoow

exerts its active energy.
meeeow mew meooow meeeow.




A man who enters the theatre, is immediately struck with the view
M mew mew meeeow mew meeeoow, me meeooooooow meeeow meow mew meow

of so great a multitude, participating of one common amusement;
me me meeow m meeeoooow, meeeoooooooow me mew meeoow meeeeeoow;

and experiences, from their very aspect, a superior sensibility
mew meeeeeeeoow, meow meeow meow meeoow, m meooooow meeeeooooow

or disposition of being affected with every sentiment, which he
me meeeeeoooow me meeow meeeeoow meow meoow meoooooow, meeow me

shares with his fellow-creatures.
meooow meow mew meooow-meeooooow.




He observes the actors to be animated by the appearance of a full
Me meeeooow mew meooow me me meeeeoow me mew meooooooow me m meow

audience, and raised to a degree of enthusiasm, which they cannot
meeoooow, mew meeoow me m meooow me meeoooooow, meeow meow meeoow

command in any solitary or calm moment.
meeeeow me mew meeeooow me meow meeoow.




Every movement of the theatre, by a skilful poet, is
Meeow meeeeoow me mew meeooow, me m meeeeow meow, me

communicated, as it were by magic, to the spectators; who weep,
meeeeoooooow, me me meow me meeow, me mew meeeeoooow; mew meow,

tremble, resent, rejoice, and are inflamed with all the variety
meeeeow, meeeow, meeooow, mew mew meeeeoow meow mew mew meeooow

of passions, which actuate the several personages of the drama.
me meeoooow, meeow meeeoow mew meoooow meeeeeeoow me mew meoow.




Where any event crosses our wishes, and interrupts the happiness
Meoow mew meoow meeeeow mew meeeow, mew meeeooooow mew meeooooow

of the favourite characters, we feel a sensible anxiety and
me mew meoooooow meooooooow, me meow m meeeooow meeeeow mew

concern. But where their sufferings proceed from the treachery,
meeooow. Mew meeow meoow meeeeoooow meeeeow meow mew meeeoooow,

cruelty, or tyranny of an enemy, our breasts are affected with
meeooow, me meeooow me me meeow, mew meeeoow mew meeoooow meow

the liveliest resentment against the author of these calamities.
mew meeeoooow meeeeeeeow meeeeow mew meeoow me meoow meeeeeeoow.

It is here esteemed contrary to the rules of art to represent
Me me meow meeeeoow meeeooow me mew meeow me mew me meeeeeoow

anything cool and indifferent. A distant friend, or a confident,
meooooow meow mew meeooooooow. M meeooow meooow, me m meeeeeeow,

who has no immediate interest in the catastrophe, ought, if
mew mew me meeeeeeow meeeooow me mew meeeeeeeeow, meoow, me

possible, to be avoided by the poet; as communicating a like
meooooow, me me meeeeow me mew meow; me meeeoooooooow m meow

indifference to the audience, and checking the progress of the
meeeooooooow me mew meeeeeow, mew meeeeeow mew meeeeeow me mew

passions.
meooooow.




Few species of poetry are more entertaining than PASTORAL; and
Mew meeeeow me meooow mew meow meeeeoooooow meow MEOOOOOW; mew

every one is sensible, that the chief source of its pleasure
meeow mew me meeeooow, meow mew meeow meeoow me mew meeeeoow

arises from those images of a gentle and tender tranquillity,
meooow meow meoow meeeow me m meeoow mew meeeow meeeeeeeeoow,

which it represents in its personages, and of which it
meeow me meeeeeooow me mew meeoooooow, mew me meoow me

communicates a like sentiment to the reader. Sannazarius, who
meeeeeeeooow m meow meeooooow me mew meeeow. Meeeeooooow, mew

transferred the scene to the sea-shore, though he presented the
meeeeeeooow mew meeow me mew mew-meoow, meeeow me meeeoooow mew

most magnificent object in nature, is confessed to have erred in
meow meeooooooow meeoow me meeeow, me meoooooow me meow meoow me

his choice. The idea of toil, labour, and danger, suffered by the
mew meooow. Mew meow me meow, meooow, mew meeeow, meeeeoow me mew

fishermen, is painful; by an unavoidable sympathy, which attends
meeeeeeow, me meoooow; me me meeooooooow meeeooow, meeow meeeeow

every conception of human happiness or misery.
meeow meooooooow me meoow meoooooow me meooow.




When I was twenty, says a French poet, Ovid was my favourite: Now
Meow M mew meeeow, meow m Meeeow meow, Meow mew me meeeoooow: Mew

I am forty, I declare for Horace. We enter, to be sure, more
M me meeow, M meeooow mew Meeeow. Me meeow, me me meow, meow

readily into sentiments, which resemble those we feel every day:
meeooow meow meeeeeeoow, meoow meeoooow meeow me meow meoow mew:

But no passion, when well represented, can be entirely
Mew me meeooow, meow meow meeeeooooow, mew me meeoooow

indifferent to us; because there is none, of which every man has
meeeoooooow me me; meoooow meoow me meow, me meoow meeow mew mew

not, within him, at least the seeds and first principles. It is
mew, meeoow mew, me meoow mew meeow mew meoow meeeooooow. Me me

the business of poetry to bring every affection near to us by
mew meooooow me meooow me meeow meoow meeooooow meow me me me

lively imagery and representation, and make it look like truth
meeeow meoooow mew meeeeeeeeoooow, mew meow me meow meow meoow

and reality: A certain proof, that, wherever that reality is
mew meeeeow: M meeeeow meeow, meow, meeoooow meow meeeoow me

found, our minds are disposed to be strongly affected by it.
meeow, mew meeow mew meeoooow me me meeeooow meeeooow me me.




Any recent event or piece of news, by which the fate of states,
Mew meeeow meoow me meoow me meow, me meoow mew meow me meeoow,

provinces, or many individuals is affected, is extremely
meeeeeeow, me meow meeeeeeooow me meooooow, me meoooooow

interesting even to those whose welfare is not immediately
meoooooooow meow me meoow meoow meoooow me mew meeooooooow

engaged. Such intelligence is propagated with celerity, heard
meeeoow. Meow meeeeeeeeoow me meeeeeeoow meow meeeeeow, meeow

with avidity, and enquired into with attention and concern. The
meow meeooow, mew meeeooow meow meow meeeeeeow mew meeeeow. Mew

interest of society appears, on this occasion, to be in some
meeeeeow me meoooow meoooow, me meow meeeeoow, me me me meow

degree the interest of each individual. The imagination is sure
meeoow mew meeeeoow me meow meeeeeeeow. Mew meeeeooooow me meow

to be affected; though the passions excited may not always be so
me me meeeeoow; meeeow mew meeoooow meoooow mew mew meeoow me me

strong and steady as to have great influence on the conduct and
meeeow mew meeoow me me meow meeow meeeeeoow me mew meeeoow mew

behaviour.
meeooooow.




The perusal of a history seems a calm entertainment; but would be
Mew meoooow me m meoooow meoow m meow meeeeeeeeooow; mew meoow me

no entertainment at all, did not our hearts beat with
me meoooooooooow me mew, mew mew mew meooow meow meow

correspondent movements to those which are described by the
meeeeeeeeooow meeeoooow me meoow meeow mew meoooooow me mew

historian.
meoooooow.




Thucydides and Guicciardin support with difficulty our attention;
Meeeeeooow mew Meoooooooow meeooow meow meeeeoooow mew meeeeooow;

while the former describes the trivial encounters of the small
meoow mew meooow meeeeeeow mew meoooow meeoooooow me mew meeow

cities of Greece, and the latter the harmless wars of Pisa. The
meooow me Meeoow, mew mew meooow mew meooooow meow me Meow. Mew

few persons interested and the small interest fill not the
mew meeeoow meeoooooow mew mew meoow meeeooow meow mew mew

imagination, and engage not the affections. The deep distress of
meeeeooooow, mew meooow mew mew meeeeoooow. Mew meow meeeeeow me

the numerous Athenian army before Syracuse; the danger which so
mew meeoooow Meeeeoow meow meooow Meeeeoow; mew meeoow meoow me

nearly threatens Venice; these excite compassion; these move
meeeow meeeeooow Meeeow; meeow meooow meeeeoooow; meeow meow

terror and anxiety.
meooow mew meeeoow.




The indifferent, uninteresting style of Suetonius, equally with
Mew meoooooooow, meeeeeeeeeeow meoow me Meeeeeoow, meoooow meow

the masterly pencil of Tacitus, may convince us of the cruel
mew meeoooow meooow me Meeooow, mew meeeeeow me me mew meeow

depravity of Nero or Tiberius: But what a difference of
meeeoooow me Meow me Meeoooow: Mew meow m meeeeoooow me

sentiment! While the former coldly relates the facts; and the
meeeeeeow! Meeow mew meeeow meeeow meeeeow mew meeow; mew mew

latter sets before our eyes the venerable figures of a Soranus
meeeow meow meooow mew meow mew meoooooow meeeoow me m Meeeoow

and a Thrasea, intrepid in their fate, and only moved by the
mew m Meoooow, meeeooow me meoow meow, mew meow meeow me mew

melting sorrows of their friends and kindred. What sympathy then
meeeeow meeeeow me meeow meoooow mew meeeeow. Meow meooooow meow

touches every human heart! What indignation against the tyrant,
meeooow meeow meoow meeow! Meow meeeeeeooow meoooow mew meeoow,

whose causeless fear or unprovoked malice gave rise to such
meoow meeeeeoow meow me meeeeeeoow meooow meow meow me meow

detestable barbarity!
meeeeeooow meoooooow!




If we bring these subjects nearer: If we remove all suspicion of
Me me meoow meeow meeoooow meooow: Me me meooow mew meeeeeoow me

fiction and deceit: What powerful concern is excited, and how
meoooow mew meooow: Meow meeoooow meeooow me meoooow, mew mew

much superior, in many instances, to the narrow attachments of
meow meeoooow, me meow meeeeeeow, me mew meooow meeeoooooow me

self-love and private interest! Popular sedition, party zeal, a
meow-meow mew meeooow meeoooow! Meoooow meeoooow, meeow meow, m

devoted obedience to factious leaders; these are some of the most
meeeoow meeeeooow me meeeeoow meeeeow; meeow mew meow me mew meow

visible, though less laudable effects of this social sympathy in
meeeoow, meeeow meow meeeeoow meeeeow me meow meeoow meeeooow me

human nature.
meoow meeeow.




The frivolousness of the subject too, we may observe, is not able
Mew meeeeeeeeooow me mew meeeeow mew, me mew meeooow, me mew meow

to detach us entirely from what carries an image of human
me meeoow me meeeooow meow meow meeeoow me meoow me meoow

sentiment and affection.
meeooooow mew meeeeeoow.




When a person stutters, and pronounces with difficulty, we even
Meow m meeoow meeeeeow, mew meooooooow meow meeeooooow, me meow

sympathize with this trivial uneasiness, and suffer for him. And
meeeeeooow meow meow meeeoow meeeeeooow, mew meeeow mew mew. Mew

it is a rule in criticism, that every combination of syllables or
me me m meow me meeeeooow, meow meoow meeeeeeeoow me meeeeeoow me

letters, which gives pain to the organs of speech in the recital,
meeooow, meeow meoow meow me mew meeoow me meeeow me mew meeeeow,

appears also from a species of sympathy harsh and disagreeable to
meeeoow meow meow m meeeoow me meeoooow meoow mew meeeeeeeooow me

the ear. Nay, when we run over a book with our eye, we are
mew mew. Mew, meow me mew meow m meow meow mew mew, me mew

sensible of such unharmonious composition; because we still
meeeooow me meow meeeeoooooow meeeoooooow; meoooow me meoow

imagine, that a person recites it to us, and suffers from the
meeeeow, meow m meeeow meeeoow me me me, mew meeeoow meow mew

pronunciation of these jarring sounds. So delicate is our
meeeeeeeeeoow me meeow meeeoow meeeow. Me meeoooow me mew

sympathy!
meooooow!




Easy and unconstrained postures and motions are always beautiful:
Meow mew meeeeeeeoooow meeeeoow mew meeeeow mew meeeow meeeeeeow:

An air of health and vigour is agreeable: Clothes which warm,
Me mew me meeoow mew meooow me meoooooow: Meoooow meeow meow,

without burthening the body; which cover, without imprisoning the
meeooow meeeooooow mew meow; meoow meeow, meeooow meeeeeeeoow mew

limbs, are well-fashioned. In every judgement of beauty, the
meeow, mew meow-meeeeeeow. Me meeow meoooooow me meeoow, mew

feelings of the person affected enter into consideration, and
meeoooow me mew meeeow meeeeoow meeow meow meeeeeeeeeoow, mew

communicate to the spectator similar touches of pain or pleasure.
meeooooooow me mew meeooooow meoooow meoooow me meow me meeeeoow.

[Footnote: 'Decentior equus cujus astricta suntilia; sed idem
[Meeeeeow: 'Meeeoooow meeow meeow meooooow meooooow; mew meow

velocior. Pulcher aspectu sit athleta, cujus lacertos execitatio
meeeooow. Meeooow meeeeow mew meeooow, meoow meeeeoow meeeeeeeow

expressit; idem certamini paratior nunquam enim SPECIES ab
meeeoooow; meow meeooooow meooooow meoooow meow MEEEOOW me

UTILITATE dividitur. Sed hoc quidem discernere modici judicii
MEEEOOOOW meeeeooow. Mew mew meooow meeeeoooow meeeow meeooow

est.'- Quintilian, Inst. lib. viii. cap. 3.]
mew.'- Meeeooooow, Meow. mew. meow. mew. m.]




What wonder, then, if we can pronounce no judgement concerning
Meow meeoow, meow, me me mew meoooooow me meeeeooow meeoooooow

the character and conduct of men, without considering the
mew meeeoooow mew meeeeow me mew, meeeoow meeeeeoooow mew

tendencies of their actions, and the happiness or misery which
meooooooow me meoow meeeoow, mew mew meoooooow me meooow meoow

thence arises to society? What association of ideas would ever
meeoow meeoow me meeeoow? Meow meeeeeoooow me meoow meoow meow

operate, were that principle here totally unactive.
meeeeow, meow meow meeeeeoow meow meoooow meeeeeow.




[Footnote: In proportion to the station which a man possesses,
[Meooooow: Me meeeooooow me mew meeeeow meeow m mew meoooooow,

according to the relations in which he is placed; we always
meeooooow me mew meeeeooow me meeow me me meooow; me meeoow

expect from him a greater or less degree of good, and when
meooow meow mew m meeooow me meow meeoow me meow, mew meow

disappointed, blame his inutility; and much more do we blame him,
meeoooooooow, meeow mew meeooooow; mew meow meow me me meoow mew,

if any ill or prejudice arise from his conduct and behaviour.
me mew mew me meeooooow meeow meow mew meoooow mew meeeoooow.

When the interests of one country interfere with those of
Meow mew meeeeeoow me mew meeeoow meeeeeeow meow meeow me

another, we estimate the merits of a statesman by the good or
meoooow, me meeeeoow mew meeeow me m meeooooow me mew meow me

ill, which results to his own country from his measures and
mew, meeow meoooow me mew mew meeooow meow mew meooooow mew

councils, without regard to the prejudice which he brings on its
meeeeoow, meeeeow meooow me mew meeeeeoow meeow me meooow me mew

enemies and rivals. His fellow-citizens are the objects, which
meeooow mew meooow. Mew meooow-meeeooow mew mew meeooow, meoow

lie nearest the eye, while we determine his character. And as
mew meeeoow mew mew, meoow me meoooooow mew meeooooow. Mew me

nature has implanted in every one a superior affection to his own
meooow mew meoooooow me meoow mew m meeeeoow meeeeooow me mew mew

country, we never expect any regard to distant nations, where a
meoooow, me meeow meeeow mew meeoow me meeeoow meeeeow, meoow m

competition arises. Not to mention, that, while every man
meeeeeeeeow meeeow. Mew me meoooow, meow, meeow meoow mew

consults the good of his own community, we are sensible, that the
meeeeoow mew meow me mew mew meoooooow, me mew meeeooow, meow mew

general interest of mankind is better promoted, than any loose
meeeeow meeeooow me meoooow me meeoow meeeeeow, meow mew meeow

indeterminate views to the good of a species, whence no
meeeoooooooow meeow me mew meow me m meeeoow, meooow me

beneficial action could ever result, for want of a duly limited
meeeeeeeow meeoow meeow meow meeoow, mew meow me m meow meeeoow

object, on which they could exert themselves.]
meeeow, me meeow meow meoow meoow meeeeeeeow.]




If any man from a cold insensibility, or narrow selfishness of
Me mew mew meow m meow meeeeooooooow, me meooow meeeeeeeeow me

temper, is unaffected with the images of human happiness or
meeeow, me meeeeoooow meow mew meeeow me meoow meeooooow me

misery, he must be equally indifferent to the images of vice and
meeeow, me meow me meoooow meeeeeeooow me mew meooow me meow mew

virtue: As, on the other hand, it is always found, that a warm
meooow: Me, me mew meeow meow, me me meeeow meeow, meow m meow

concern for the interests of our species is attended with a
meeeeow mew mew meeeeeeow me mew meeeoow me meooooow meow m

delicate feeling of all moral distinctions; a strong resentment
meooooow meeeeow me mew meoow meeoooooooow; m meeeow meeeooooow

of injury done to men; a lively approbation of their welfare. In
me meeeow meow me mew; m meeoow meeeeeoooow me meeow meeeeow. Me

this particular, though great superiority is observable of one
meow meooooooow, meeoow meeow meeeeeoooow me meeeeeooow me mew

man above another; yet none are so entirely indifferent to the
mew meeow meeeeow; mew meow mew me meeeooow meeeeeeeoow me mew

interest of their fellow-creatures, as to perceive no
meeeeeow me meoow meooow-meoooooow, me me meeoooow me

distinctions of moral good and evil, in consequence of the
meeoooooooow me meoow meow mew meow, me meeeoooooow me mew

different tendencies of actions and principles. How, indeed, can
meeeoooow meeeeeooow me meeooow mew meeeeeeeow. Mew, meeoow, mew

we suppose it possible in any one, who wears a human heart, that
me meeeeow me meeoooow me mew mew, mew meeow m meeow meoow, meow

if there be subjected to his censure, one character or system of
me meeow me meeeeooow me mew meeeoow, mew meeeoooow me meeoow me

conduct, which is beneficial, and another which is pernicious to
meeeeow, meeow me meeeeeeoow, mew meeeeow meoow me meeeeeeoow me

his species or community, he will not so much as give a cool
mew meoooow me meeeeeoow, me meow mew me meow me meow m meow

preference to the former, or ascribe to it the smallest merit or
meeeooooow me mew meooow, me meoooow me me mew meeeooow meoow me

regard? Let us suppose such a person ever so selfish; let private
meeeow? Mew me meeooow meow m meeoow meow me meeooow; mew meeeoow

interest have ingrossed ever so much his attention; yet in
meeeooow meow meoooooow meow me meow mew meeeoooow; mew me

instances, where that is not concerned, he must unavoidably feel
meeeeeoow, meoow meow me mew meoooooow, me meow meoooooooow meow

SOME propensity to the good of mankind, and make it an object of
MEOW meeeeoooow me mew meow me meeeoow, mew meow me me meeeow me

choice, if everything else be equal. Would any man, who is
meooow, me meeoooooow meow me meeow. Meeow mew mew, mew me

walking along, tread as willingly on another's gouty toes, whom
meeeeow meoow, meeow me meeeoooow me meeeoow'm meoow meow, meow

he has no quarrel with, as on the hard flint and pavement? There
me mew me meoooow meow, me me mew meow meoow mew meeeooow? Meeow

is here surely a difference in the case. We surely take into
me meow meeeow m meooooooow me mew meow. Me meooow meow meow

consideration the happiness and misery of others, in weighing the
meeooooooooow mew meeeeooow mew meooow me meeeow, me meeoooow mew

several motives of action, and incline to the former, where no
meeeoow meeooow me meooow, mew meeooow me mew meeeow, meoow me

private regards draw us to seek our own promotion or advantage by
meeeoow meeeeow meow me me meow mew mew meeooooow me meeeeooow me

the injury of our fellow-creatures. And if the principles of
mew meooow me mew meooow-meoooooow. Mew me mew meooooooow me

humanity are capable, in many instances, of influencing our
meeeeoow mew meeooow, me meow meeooooow, me meeeeeeeeow mew

actions, they must, at all times, have some authority over our
meeeoow, meow meow, me mew meeow, meow meow meoooooow meow mew

sentiments, and give us a general approbation of what is useful
meeeooooow, mew meow me m meoooow meeooooooow me meow me meeoow

to society, and blame of what is dangerous or pernicious. The
me meoooow, mew meoow me meow me meeeeeeow me meeeeoooow. Mew

degrees of these sentiments may be the subject of controversy;
meoooow me meoow meeeeoooow mew me mew meeeeow me meeeeooooow;

but the reality of their existence, one should think, must be
mew mew meeeoow me meeow meeeeooow, mew meooow meeow, meow me

admitted in every theory or system.
meeeeoow me meeow meeoow me meooow.




A creature, absolutely malicious and spiteful, were there any
M meooooow, meeeeoooow meeeeooow mew meeoooow, meow meoow mew

such in nature, must be worse than indifferent to the images of
meow me meeeow, meow me meoow meow meeooooooow me mew meeeow me

vice and virtue. All his sentiments must be inverted, and
meow mew meeeow. Mew mew meooooooow meow me meeeooow, mew

directly opposite to those, which prevail in the human species.
meeeeeow meeeeoow me meoow, meoow meoooow me mew meeow meeeoow.

Whatever contributes to the good of mankind, as it crosses the
Meeeooow meeeoooooow me mew meow me meeeoow, me me meeooow mew

constant bent of his wishes and desires, must produce uneasiness
meeeeoow meow me mew meooow mew meeeoow, meow meeeoow meooooooow

and disapprobation; and on the contrary, whatever is the source
mew meeeeeeoooooow; mew me mew meooooow, meeeooow me mew meooow

of disorder and misery in society, must, for the same reason, be
me meeeooow mew meeeow me meoooow, meow, mew mew meow meooow, me

regarded with pleasure and complacency. Timon, who probably from
meooooow meow meeoooow mew meeeeeoooow. Meeow, mew meooooow meow

his affected spleen more than an inveterate malice, was
mew meooooow meooow meow meow me meeeeeeoow meeoow, mew

denominated the manhater, embraced Alcibiades with great
meeeeeeooow mew meeeeeow, meeoooow Meeeeeeoow meow meeow

fondness. GO ON, MY BOY! cried he, ACQUIRE THE CONFIDENCE OF THE
meooooow. ME ME, ME MEW! meoow me, MEEEOOW MEW MEEEEEOOOW ME MEW

PEOPLE: YOU WILL ONE DAY, I FORESEE, BE THE CAUSE OF GREAT
MEEOOW: MEW MEOW MEW MEW, M MEEEEOW, ME MEW MEOOW ME MEEOW

CALAMITIES TO THEM [Footnote: Plutarch fit vita Ale.]. Could we
MEOOOOOOOW ME MEOW [Meeeeeow: Meeeeoow mew meow Mew.]. Meeow me

admit the two principles of the Manicheans, it is an infallible
meoow mew mew meeoooooow me mew Meeeeeooow, me me me meeeeeeoow

consequence, that their sentiments of human actions, as well as
meeeeeeooow, meow meoow meeoooooow me meoow meeeoow, me meow me

of everything else, must be totally opposite, and that every
me meeeeeeeow meow, meow me meeeoow meeeeoow, mew meow meoow

instance of justice and humanity, from its necessary tendency,
meeeeeow me meeooow mew meeeeoow, meow mew meoooooow meeeooow,

must please the one deity and displease the other. All mankind so
meow meeoow mew mew meeow mew meeeeeeow mew meoow. Mew meoooow me

far resemble the good principle, that, where interest or revenge
mew meeeeeow mew meow meoooooow, meow, meoow meeeeoow me meeeoow

or envy perverts not our disposition, we are always inclined,
me meow meooooow mew mew meeeeooooow, me mew meooow meooooow,

from our natural philanthropy, to give the preference to the
meow mew meeooow meooooooooow, me meow mew meeeooooow me mew

happiness of society, and consequently to virtue above its
meoooooow me meeeeow, mew meeeooooooow me meooow meoow mew

opposite. Absolute, unprovoked, disinterested malice has never
meeeeoow. Meeeooow, meeeeeeoow, meeeeeeeeooow meooow mew meoow

perhaps place in any human breast; or if it had, must there
meeeoow meeow me mew meoow meooow; me me me mew, meow meeow

pervert all the sentiments of morals, as well as the feelings of
meeeeow mew mew meooooooow me meeeow, me meow me mew meeeooow me

humanity. If the cruelty of Nero be allowed entirely voluntary,
meeeeoow. Me mew meeeoow me Meow me meeeoow meooooow meeeoooow,

and not rather the effect of constant fear and resentment; it is
mew mew meeeow mew meeoow me meeeooow meow mew meooooooow; me me

evident that Tigellinus, preferably to Seneca or Burrhus, must
meeeeow meow Meeeeoooow, meeeeeeoow me Meeeow me Meeooow, meow

have possessed his steady and uniform approbation.
meow meeeeeeow mew meeoow mew meoooow meeeeeeooow.




A statesman or patriot, who serves our own country in our own
M meeeeeoow me meeeeow, mew meooow mew mew meeeoow me mew mew

time, has always a more passionate regard paid to him, than one
meow, mew meeeow m meow meeeeoooow meeoow meow me mew, meow mew

whose beneficial influence operated on distant ages or remote
meoow meeeeoooow meeeeeoow meeeeeow me meeeoow meow me meeoow

nations; where the good, resulting from his generous humanity,
meeooow; meoow mew meow, meeeeeoow meow mew meeeooow meeoooow,

being less connected with us, seems more obscure, and affects us
meoow meow meoooooow meow me, meoow meow meeooow, mew meeeeow me

with a less lively sympathy. We may own the merit to be equally
meow m meow meeoow meeeeeow. Me mew mew mew meoow me me meeeeow

great, though our sentiments are not raised to an equal height,
meoow, meeeow mew meeeeeeeow mew mew meeoow me me meeow meooow,

in both cases. The judgement here corrects the inequalities of
me meow meeow. Mew meeeoooow meow meeeeoow mew meeeooooooow me

our internal emotions and perceptions; in like manner, as it
mew meeeeeow meeeeoow mew meeeeeoooow; me meow meeeow, me me

preserves us from error, in the several variations of images,
meoooooow me meow meeow, me mew meeeoow meooooooow me meeeow,

presented to our external senses. The same object, at a double
meeooooow me mew meeoooow meeoow. Mew meow meooow, me m meeoow

distance, really throws on the eye a picture of but half the
meeeooow, meeoow meooow me mew mew m meeooow me mew meow mew

bulk; yet we imagine that it appears of the same size in both
meow; mew me meeeoow meow me meeeeow me mew meow meow me meow

situations; because we know that on our approach to it, its image
meeoooooow; meoooow me meow meow me mew meooooow me me, mew meeow

would expand on the eye, and that the difference consists not in
meoow meeeow me mew mew, mew meow mew meeoooooow meeeeoow mew me

the object itself, but in our position with regard to it. And,
mew meeoow meeeow, mew me mew meeeooow meow meeeow me me. Mew,

indeed, without such a correction of appearances, both in
meeoow, meeooow meow m meeeeeeeow me meeeeooooow, meow me

internal and external sentiment, men could never think or talk
meeeooow mew meeeeeow meeeoooow, mew meoow meoow meeow me meow

steadily on any subject; while their fluctuating situations
meeeooow me mew meeeeow; meoow meeow meeeoooooow meeeeoooow

produce a continual variation on objects, and throw them into
meeeoow m meeooooow meeeeeeow me meoooow, mew meeow meow meow

such different and contrary lights and positions.
meow meoooooow mew meooooow meeoow mew meoooooow.










[Footnote: For a little reason, the tendencies of actions and
[Meeeooow: Mew m meeoow meeeow, mew meeeooooow me meeooow mew

characters, not their real accidental consequences, are alone
meeeeeeoow, mew meoow meow meeeeeooow meeeeeooooow, mew meoow

regarded in our more determinations or general judgements; though
meeeeoow me mew meow meeeeeooooooow me meeeoow meeeeeeoow; meeeow

in our real feeling or sentiment, we cannot help paying greater
me mew meow meeeeow me meeeoooow, me meeeow meow meeeow meeooow

regard to one whose station, joined to virtue, renders him really
meeoow me mew meoow meoooow, meooow me meooow, meoooow mew meeeow

useful to society, then to one, who exerts the social virtues
meeeow me meeeoow, meow me mew, mew meooow mew meeoow meeeoow

only in good intentions and benevolent affections. Separating the
meow me meow meooooooow mew meeeeeeeow meeeeeooow. Meeeeeeoow mew

character from the furtone, by an easy and necessary effort of
meoooooow meow mew meeooow, me me meow mew meeeeeeow meeeow me

thought, we pronounce these persons alike, and give them the
meoooow, me meeooooow meoow meoooow meeow, mew meow meow mew

appearance: But is not able entirely to prevail our sentiment.
meeeeoooow: Mew me mew meow meeeooow me meeooow mew meoooooow.




Why is this peach-tree said to be better than that other; but
Mew me meow meoow-meow meow me me meooow meow meow meoow; mew

because it produces more or better fruit? And would not the same
meeooow me meeeeeow meow me meeoow meeow? Mew meoow mew mew meow

praise be given it, though snails or vermin had destroyed the
meeoow me meeow me, meeeow meooow me meeeow mew meeooooow mew

peaches, before they came to full maturity? In morals too, is not
meeooow, meooow meow meow me meow meeeeoow? Me meeeow mew, me mew

THE TREE KNOWN BY THE FRUIT? And cannot we easily distinguish
MEW MEOW MEEOW ME MEW MEEOW? Mew meooow me meeeow meeeeeeeeow

between nature and accident, in the one case as well as in the
meeooow meeeow mew meooooow, me mew mew meow me meow me me mew

other?]
meoow?]










The more we converse with mankind, and the greater social
Mew meow me meeeeoow meow meeooow, mew mew meeeoow meooow

intercourse we maintain, the more shall we be familiarized to
meeooooooow me meeeeeow, mew meow meoow me me meeeeoooooow me

these general preferences and distinctions, without which our
meeow meoooow meeooooooow mew meeeeeeoooow, meoooow meoow mew

conversation and discourse could scarcely be rendered
meeeeeeeeoow mew meeeoooow meoow meeoooow me meeeooow

intelligible to each other. Every man's interest is peculiar to
meeeeoooooow me meow meoow. Meeow mew'm meeeooow me meeeeeow me

himself, and the aversions and desires, which result from it,
meeooow, mew mew meeeoooow mew meeooow, meoow meooow meow me,

cannot be supposed to affect others in a like degree. General
meeoow me meeeeeow me meooow meeoow me m meow meeeow. Meeeoow

language, therefore, being formed for general use, must be
meeeooow, meeeeooow, meeow meeeow mew meeooow mew, meow me

moulded on some more general views, and must affix the epithets
meoooow me meow meow meoooow meeow, mew meow meeow mew meeeooow

of praise or blame, in conformity to sentiments, which arise from
me meeeow me meoow, me meeeeoooow me meeeeeeoow, meeow meeow meow

the general interests of the community. And if these sentiments,
mew meoooow meeeeooow me mew meeeoooow. Mew me meeow meeeeeeeow,

in most men, be not so strong as those, which have a reference to
me meow mew, me mew me meeeow me meeow, meeow meow m meeeeeoow me

private good; yet still they must make some distinction, even in
meeooow meow; mew meeow meow meow meow meow meeeeeoooow, meow me

persons the most depraved and selfish; and must attach the notion
meoooow mew meow meeeeoow mew meeeoow; mew meow meeeow mew meooow

of good to a beneficent conduct, and of evil to the contrary.
me meow me m meooooooow meoooow, mew me meow me mew meeoooow.

Sympathy, we shall allow, is much fainter than our concern for
Meeoooow, me meoow meeow, me meow meeooow meow mew meeeoow mew

ourselves, and sympathy with persons remote from us much fainter
meeooooow, mew meooooow meow meeooow meooow meow me meow meoooow

than that with persons near and contiguous; but for this very
meow meow meow meeeeow meow mew meeeeeeeow; mew mew meow meow

reason it is necessary for us, in our calm judgements and
meeoow me me meeeeeoow mew me, me mew meow meeoooooow mew

discourse concerning the characters of men, to neglect all these
meeeeooow meeeeoooow mew meeeeeeeow me mew, me meeeoow mew meeow

differences, and render our sentiments more public and social.
meeeeeeeoow, mew meeoow mew meooooooow meow meooow mew meeoow.

Besides, that we ourselves often change our situation in this
Meeooow, meow me meeeeeoow meeow meeoow mew meeeeooow me meow

particular, we every day meet with persons who are in a situation
meeeeeooow, me meoow mew meow meow meeeeow mew mew me m meeeoooow

different from us, and who could never converse with us were we
meeeeooow meow me, mew mew meoow meeow meeoooow meow me meow me

to remain constantly in that position and point of view, which is
me meooow meeoooooow me meow meooooow mew meeow me meow, meoow me

peculiar to ourselves. The intercourse of sentiments, therefore,
meeeeoow me meeeeeoow. Mew meeooooooow me meeeeeeeow, meoooooow,

in society and conversation, makes us form some general
me meoooow mew meeeeeooooow, meoow me meow meow meoooow

unalterable standard, by which we may approve or disapprove of
meeeeeeeeow meeeeoow, me meoow me mew meeooow me meeeeoooow me

characters and manners. And though the heart takes not part
meeeeeooow mew meoooow. Mew meeeow mew meoow meoow mew meow

entirely with those general notions, nor regulates all its love
meeoooow meow meeow meoooow meeeeow, mew meeeeooow mew mew meow

and hatred by the universal abstract differences of vice and
mew meooow me mew meeeeooow meeeeoow meeeeeeeeow me meow mew

virtue, without regard to self, or the persons with whom we are
meooow, meeeoow meeeow me meow, me mew meeeeow meow meow me mew

more intimately connected; yet have these moral differences a
meow meeoooooow meeeeeoow; mew meow meoow meoow meeeeeeooow m

considerable influence, and being sufficient, at least for
meooooooooow meeeeeeow, mew meeow meeeeeeoow, me meeow mew

discourse, serve all our purposes in company, in the pulpit, on
meeeeeeow, meoow mew mew meeeeoow me meeeeow, me mew meeeow, me

the theatre, and in the schools.
mew meeeeow, mew me mew meoooow.




[Footnote: It is wisely ordained by nature, that private
[Meeeeeow: Me me meeoow meeoooow me meeeow, meow meeeoow

connexions should commonly prevail over univeral views and
meeeooooow meeoow meeeeeow meeeoow meow meeeeeow meeow mew

considerations; otherwise our affections and actions would be
meeeeeeeeeooow; meoooooow mew meeeeeeeow mew meoooow meeow me

dissopated and lost, for want of a proper limited object. Thus a
meeoooooow mew meow, mew meow me m meeoow meoooow meooow. Meow m

small benefit done to ourselves, or our near friends, excites
meoow meeeeow meow me meeeeeoow, me mew meow meeooow, meeeeow

more lively sentiments of love and approbation than a great
meow meeoow meeeeeeeow me meow mew meeeeeeeeow meow m meoow

benefit done to a distant commonwealth: But still we know here,
meeeeow meow me m meeeeow meeeeoooooow: Mew meeow me meow meow,

as in all the senses, to correct these inequalities by
me me mew mew meooow, me meeeoow meoow meeeeeeeooow me

reflection, and retain a general standard of vice and virtue,
meeeeoooow, mew meeoow m meeooow meooooow me meow mew meeoow,

founded chiefly on a general usefulness.]
meeeeow meoooow me m meeeeow meeeeeeoow.]




Thus, in whatever light we take this subject, the merit, ascribed
Meow, me meeeooow meoow me meow meow meeeoow, mew meeow, meeeeeow

to the social virtues, appears still uniform, and arises chiefly
me mew meeoow meeeoow, meoooow meeow meeeeow, mew meeoow meeeeow

from that regard, which the natural sentiment of benevolence
meow meow meeeow, meeow mew meeooow meeeeeeow me meeeeeeeoow

engages us to pay to the interests of mankind and society. If we
meeeoow me me mew me mew meeeoooow me meoooow mew meeeoow. Me me

consider the principles of the human make, such as they appear to
meeeeoow mew meeeooooow me mew meeow meow, meow me meow meeoow me

daily experience and observation, we must, A PRIORI, conclude it
meeow meooooooow mew meeeoooooow, me meow, M MEOOOW, meeoooow me

impossible for such a creature as man to be totally indifferent
meooooooow mew meow m meeeooow me mew me me meoooow meeeeeoooow

to the well or ill-being of his fellow-creatures, and not
me mew meow me mew-meoow me mew meooow-meeeoooow, mew mew

readily, of himself, to pronounce, where nothing gives him any
meoooow, me meeeeow, me meoooooow, meoow meeeeow meeow mew mew

particular bias, that what promotes their happiness is good, what
meeeeeeeow meow, meow meow meeoooow meoow meeeeeoow me meow, meow

tends to their misery is evil, without any farther regard or
meeow me meeow meeoow me meow, meoooow mew meeeoow meooow me

consideration. Here then are the faint rudiments, at least, or
meeooooooooow. Meow meow mew mew meeow meoooooow, me meeow, me

outlines, of a GENERAL distinction between actions; and in
meooooow, me m MEEEOOW meeeeeeeoow meeeeow meeeoow; mew me

proportion as the humanity of the person is supposed to increase,
meeeeeeoow me mew meeeeeow me mew meeoow me meeeeoow me meeeooow,

his connexion with those who are injured or benefited, and his
mew meeeeeeow meow meeow mew mew meeooow me meoooooow, mew mew

lively conception of their misery or happiness; his consequent
meeoow meeeeeeeow me meoow meeeow me meeooooow; mew meeeooooow

censure or approbation acquires proportionable vigour. There is
meeeeow me meeeeeeooow meooooow meeeeeeeeeeeow meeoow. Meoow me

no necessity, that a generous action, barely mentioned in an old
me meoooooow, meow m meeeeeow meooow, meeeow meeeoooow me me mew

history or remote gazette, should communicate any strong feelings
meeooow me meeoow meoooow, meooow meeeeooooow mew meeoow meeeeoow

of applause and admiration. Virtue, placed at such a distance, is
me meeeooow mew meooooooow. Meeoow, meooow me meow m meeoooow, me

like a fixed star, which, though to the eye of reason it may
meow m meeow meow, meoow, meeoow me mew mew me meeeow me mew

appear as luminous as the sun in his meridian, is so infinitely
meooow me meeeeoow me mew mew me mew meeeooow, me me meeeooooow

removed as to affect the senses, neither with light nor heat.
meeeoow me me meooow mew meeeow, meoooow meow meeow mew meow.

Bring this virtue nearer, by our acquaintance or connexion with
Meeow meow meooow meeeow, me mew meooooooooow me meeeeooow meow

the persons, or even by an eloquent recital of the case; our
mew meoooow, me meow me me meeeeoow meeeoow me mew meow; mew

hearts are immediately caught, our sympathy enlivened, and our
meeeow mew meeeeeoooow meeeow, mew meeoooow meeeeeeow, mew mew

cool approbation converted into the warmest sentiments of
meow meeeeeeeeow meeeeooow meow mew meoooow meeeeeeoow me

friendship and regard. These seem necessary and infallible
meeeeeeeow mew meeeow. Meoow meow meeeeeoow mew meeeeoooow

consequences of the general principles of human nature, as
meeeeeeeooow me mew meoooow meeeeoooow me meeow meooow, me

discovered in common life and practice.
meeeeeooow me meooow meow mew meeoooow.




Again; reverse these views and reasonings: Consider the matter a
Meeow; meoooow meoow meeow mew meeeooooow: Meeeooow mew meooow m

posteriori; and weighing the consequences, enquire if the merit
meeoooooow; mew meeeooow mew meeeooooooow, meeeoow me mew meoow

of social virtue be not, in a great measure, derived from the
me meeeow meeeow me mew, me m meoow meoooow, meoooow meow mew

feelings of humanity, with which it affects the spectators. It
meeeooow me meeeooow, meow meeow me meeeoow mew meeeeoooow. Me

appears to be matter of fact, that the circumstance of UTILITY,
meoooow me me meooow me meow, meow mew meeeeeeeeoow me MEEOOOW,

in all subjects, is a source of praise and approbation: That it
me mew meeoooow, me m meeeow me meooow mew meeooooooow: Meow me

is constantly appealed to in all moral decisions concerning the
me meeeooooow meooooow me me mew meoow meeeeeeow meeeeeooow mew

merit and demerit of actions: That it is the SOLE source of that
meeow mew meoooow me meeeeow: Meow me me mew MEOW meeoow me meow

high regard paid to justice, fidelity, honour, allegiance, and
meow meeoow meow me meeeoow, meeeeoow, meeoow, meeeeeeeow, mew

chastity: That it is inseparable from all the other social
meeeooow: Meow me me meeeoooooow meow mew mew meeow meeoow

virtues, humanity, generosity, charity, affability, lenity,
meoooow, meeeooow, meooooooow, meoooow, meeeeoooow, meooow,

mercy, and moderation: And, in a word, that it is a foundation of
meeow, mew meeeeeeoow: Mew, me m meow, meow me me m meeoooooow me

the chief part of morals, which has a reference to mankind and
mew meeow meow me meeeow, meoow mew m meeeeeoow me meeeeow mew

our fellow-creatures.
mew meooow-meeeeeoow.




It appears also, that, in our general approbation of characters
Me meoooow meow, meow, me mew meeeeow meeeeeoooow me meeeeoooow

and manners, the useful tendency of the social virtues moves us
mew meeooow, mew meeeow meeeeoow me mew meooow meeeoow meeow me

not by any regards to self-interest, but has an influence much
mew me mew meeeeow me meow-meooooow, mew mew me meeooooow meow

more universal and extensive. It appears that a tendency to
meow meoooooow mew meeeeeoow. Me meoooow meow m meeeeoow me

public good, and to the promoting of peace, harmony, and order in
meeoow meow, mew me mew meeeeooow me meoow, meeooow, mew meoow me

society, does always, by affecting the benevolent principles of
meeeoow, meow meooow, me meeeeeoow mew meeeeeeeow meeeeeeeow me

our frame, engage us on the side of the social virtues. And it
mew meeow, meooow me me mew meow me mew meeeow meeooow. Mew me

appears, as an additional confirmation, that these principles of
meeeeow, me me meeeeoooow meeeeeooooow, meow meoow meeeeeooow me

humanity and sympathy enter so deeply into all our sentiments,
meooooow mew meeeooow meoow me meeoow meow mew mew meeoooooow,

and have so powerful an influence, as may enable them to excite
mew meow me meeeeeow me meeooooow, me mew meooow meow me meeeow

the strongest censure and applause. The present theory is the
mew meeooooow meoooow mew meeeooow. Mew meoooow meeoow me mew

simple result of all these inferences, each of which seems
meeeow meooow me mew meeow meooooooow, meow me meoow meeow

founded on uniform experience and observation.
meeeeow me meeeeow meeeeeeeow mew meeeeeoooow.




Were it doubtful, whether there were any such principle in our
Meow me meeeooow, meeeeow meoow meow mew meow meeeeooow me mew

nature as humanity or a concern for others, yet when we see, in
meeoow me meeoooow me m meoooow mew meeeow, mew meow me mew, me

numberless instances, that whatever has a tendency to promote the
meeeeoooow meeeeeeow, meow meeoooow mew m meeeooow me meeooow mew

interests of society, is so highly approved of, we ought thence
meeeeeoow me meeeoow, me me meeeow meeeeeow me, me meeow meooow

to learn the force of the benevolent principle; since it is
me meoow mew meeow me mew meeeeeooow meoooooow; meeow me me

impossible for anything to please as means to an end, where the
meeeeeeoow mew meeeooow me meooow me meeow me me mew, meeow mew

end is totally indifferent. On the other hand, were it doubtful,
mew me meoooow meeeeeoooow. Me mew meeow meow, meow me meeeeeow,

whether there were, implanted in our nature, any general
meeeoow meoow meow, meeooooow me mew meeeow, mew meoooow

principle of moral blame and approbation, yet when we see, in
meeeeeeow me meoow meeow mew meeeeeeooow, mew meow me mew, me

numberless instances, the influence of humanity, we ought thence
meeoooooow meeeeeeow, mew meeeeooow me meeoooow, me meeow meooow

to conclude, that it is impossible, but that everything which
me meeeeoow, meow me me meooooooow, mew meow meooooooow meoow

promotes the interest of society must communicate pleasure, and
meeeeeow mew meooooow me meeooow meow meeeeeeooow meeeeoow, mew

what is pernicious give uneasiness. But when these different
meow me meooooooow meow meeoooooow. Mew meow meoow meeeeeoow

reflections and observations concur in establishing the same
meeooooooow mew meooooooooow meeeow me meeeeeeeeeow mew meow

conclusion, must they not bestow an undisputed evidence upon it?
meeoooooow, meow meow mew meooow me meeoooooow meeoooow meow me?




It is however hoped, that the progress of this argument will
Me me meeeoow meoow, meow mew meeeeeow me meow meeeeoow meow

bring a farther confirmation of the present theory, by showing
meoow m meeeoow meeeeeeoooow me mew meeeeow meeeow, me meeeeow

the rise of other sentiments of esteem and regard from the same
mew meow me meeow meeeooooow me meeoow mew meooow meow mew meow

or like principles.
me meow meeeeeooow.










SECTION VI.
MEEOOOW ME.




OF QUALITIES USEFUL TO OURSELVES.
ME MEEOOOOOW MEEOOW ME MEEEOOOOW.










PART I.
MEOW M.










IT seems evident, that where a quality or habit is subjected to
ME meoow meeeeow, meow meeow m meeeoow me meeow me meeeeeeow me

our examination, if it appear in any respect prejudicial to the
mew meeeeeeeoow, me me meooow me mew meeeoow meeooooooow me mew

person possessed of it, or such as incapacitates him for business
meeeow meoooooow me me, me meow me meeeeeoooooow mew mew meeoooow

and action, it is instantly blamed, and ranked among his faults
mew meeeow, me me meoooooow meeoow, mew meeeow meoow mew meeoow

and imperfections. Indolence, negligence, want of order and
mew meeeeeeeeeoow. Meeeeeeow, meeoooooow, meow me meoow mew

method, obstinacy, fickleness, rashness, credulity; these
meeeow, meeooooow, meeeeoooow, meeeeeow, meeeeeoow; meeow

qualities were never esteemed by any one indifferent to a
meeeeeoow meow meoow meeeeoow me mew mew meeeeeeeeow me m

character; much less, extolled as accomplishments or virtues. The
meeeoooow; meow meow, meeeooow me meeeeeeooooooow me meoooow. Mew

prejudice, resulting from them, immediately strikes our eye, and
meeooooow, meeooooow meow meow, meeeeeeeeow meeeeow mew mew, mew

gives us the sentiment of pain and disapprobation.
meoow me mew meeeeooow me meow mew meeeeeeeeeeoow.




No quality, it is allowed, is absolutely either blameable or
Me meeooow, me me meoooow, me meeeeeeoow meeeow meeeeeoow me

praiseworthy. It is all according to its degree. A due medium,
meeeeeeeeoow. Me me mew meeeoooow me mew meeoow. M mew meeoow,

says the Peripatetics, is the characteristic of virtue. But this
meow mew Meeeeeeeooow, me mew meeeeeeeeeeoow me meeeow. Mew meow

medium is chiefly determined by utility. A proper celerity, for
meeeow me meoooow meeeeeeeow me meoooow. M meooow meeeeoow, mew

instance, and dispatch in business, is commendable. When
meooooow, mew meeeooow me meeeeoow, me meoooooooow. Meow

defective, no progress is ever made in the execution of any
meeeoooow, me meeeeeow me meow meow me mew meeooooow me mew

purpose: When excessive, it engages us in precipitate and ill-
meeeeow: Meow meeeeeeow, me meeeoow me me meeeoooooow mew mew-

concerted measures and enterprises: By such reasonings, we fix
meeeeeoow meeeooow mew meoooooooow: Me meow meeoooooow, me mew

the proper and commendable mediocrity in all moral and prudential
mew meooow mew meeeeeoooow meeeeeeeow me mew meeow mew meeoooooow

disquisitions; and never lose view of the advantages, which
meeeeeeeeeoow; mew meeow meow meow me mew meeeeeeoow, meoow

result from any character or habit. Now as these advantages are
meeoow meow mew meeeoooow me meeow. Mew me meoow meeeeeeeow mew

enjoyed by the person possessed of the character, it can never be
meeeeow me mew meooow meeeeooow me mew meeeoooow, me mew meeow me

SELF-LOVE which renders the prospect of them agreeable to us, the
MEOW-MEOW meoow meoooow mew meeeeoow me meow meeeeeoow me me, mew

spectators, and prompts our esteem and approbation. No force of
meeeeeeeow, mew meeeeow mew meeeow mew meeeoooooow. Me meeow me

imagination can convert us into another person, and make us
meeooooooow mew meoooow me meow meeeeow meeoow, mew meow me

fancy, that we, being that person, reap benefit from those
meoow, meow me, meoow meow meeeow, meow meeeeow meow meeow

valuable qualities, which belong to him. Or if it did, no
meeoooow meeeeeeow, meoow meeoow me mew. Me me me mew, me

celerity of imagination could immediately transport us back, into
meeeeeow me meeeeeeooow meeow meeeeooooow meeeeeeow me meow, meow

ourselves, and make us love and esteem the person, as different
meeeoooow, mew meow me meow mew meeeow mew meooow, me meeooooow

from us. Views and sentiments, so opposite to known truth and to
meow me. Meeow mew meeoooooow, me meeeeeow me meeow meeow mew me

each other, could never have place, at the same time, in the same
meow meoow, meoow meeow meow meoow, me mew meow meow, me mew meow

person. All suspicion, therefore, of selfish regards, is here
meeoow. Mew meeeeooow, meeooooow, me meeeeow meeeeow, me meow

totally excluded. It is a quite different principle, which
meeeoow meooooow. Me me m meoow meoooooow meeeeooow, meeow

actuates our bosom, and interests us in the felicity of the
meeeooow mew meoow, mew meeeoooow me me mew meooooow me mew

person whom we contemplate. Where his natural talents and
meeeow meow me meeeoooooow. Meeow mew meeooow meoooow mew

acquired abilities give us the prospect of elevation,
meeeooow meeeeooow meow me mew meeeeoow me meoooooow,

advancement, a figure in life, prosperous success, a steady
meeeeeeeoow, m meooow me meow, meeoooooow meoooow, m meeeow

command over fortune, and the execution of great or advantageous
meeooow meow meeeoow, mew mew meoooooow me meeow me meeeeeooooow

undertakings; we are struck with such agreeable images, and feel
meeeeeooooow; me mew meeoow meow meow meeeeeeow meeoow, mew meow

a complacency and regard immediately arise towards him. The ideas
m meeeeeeooow mew meooow meeeeooooow meeow meeeoow mew. Mew meeow

of happiness, joy, triumph, prosperity, are connected with every
me meeeeeoow, mew, meeeoow, meeoooooow, mew meeooooow meow meoow

circumstance of his character, and diffuse over our minds a
meeeeeeeeeow me mew meeooooow, mew meeooow meow mew meeow m

pleasing sentiment of sympathy and humanity.
meeeeeow meeeeooow me meeeeoow mew meeoooow.




[Footnote: One may venture to affirm, that there is no human
[Meeeeoow: Mew mew meeooow me meeeow, meow meoow me me meoow

nature, to whom the appearance of happiness (where envy or
meeoow, me meow mew meooooooow me meoooooow (meoow meow me

revenge has no place) does not give pleasure, that of misery,
meoooow mew me meoow) meow mew meow meooooow, meow me meeoow,

uneasiness. This seems inseparable from our make and
meeoooooow. Meow meeow meeeeeoooow meow mew meow mew

constitution. But they are only more generous minds, that are
meeeeeeoooow. Mew meow mew meow meow meeeooow meeow, meow mew

thence prompted to seek zealously the good of others, and to have
meooow meeeeeow me meow meeeeooow mew meow me meooow, mew me meow

a real passion for their welfare. With men of narrow and
m meow meeeeow mew meoow meoooow. Meow mew me meooow mew

ungenerous spirits, this sympathy goes not beyond a slight
meeeeeeeow meeeeow, meow meooooow meow mew meeoow m meeoow

feeling of the imagination, which serves only to excite
meeooow me mew meeooooooow, meeow meeeow meow me meooow

sentiments of complacency or ensure, and makes them apply to the
meeeeeeeow me meeeeeoooow me meooow, mew meoow meow meeow me mew

object either honorable or dishonorable appellations. A griping
meeeow meeeow meeeeeoow me meeeeeeeeeow meeeeeeeooow. M meeeoow

miser, for instance, praises extremely INDUSTRY and FRUGALITY
meoow, mew meooooow, meeeoow meeeeeeow MEEEOOOW mew MEEEEOOOW

even in others, and sets them, in his estimation, above all the
meow me meeeow, mew meow meow, me mew meeeeeooow, meeow mew mew

other virtues. He knows the good that results from them, and
meoow meeeoow. Me meeow mew meow meow meoooow meow meow, mew

feels that species of happiness with a more lively sympathy, than
meoow meow meeeoow me meeeeooow meow m meow meooow meeoooow, meow

any other you could represent to him; though perhaps he would not
mew meoow mew meoow meeeeeeow me mew; meeeow meoooow me meoow mew

part with a shilling to make the fortune of the industrious man,
meow meow m meeeeeow me meow mew meeeoow me mew meeeeeeooow mew,

whom he praises so highly.]
meow me meeeoow me meeeow.]




Let us suppose a person originally framed so as to have no
Mew me meeeoow m meeoow meooooooow meooow me me me meow me

manner of concern for his fellow-creatures, but to regard the
meeeow me meeeeow mew mew meeeow-meeeoooow, mew me meooow mew

happiness and misery of all sensible beings with greater
meeooooow mew meeeow me mew meeeeoow meeeow meow meeooow

indifference than even two contiguous shades of the same colour.
meeeeeeeeeow meow meow mew meeeeoooow meeeow me mew meow meeeow.

Let us suppose, if the prosperity of nations were laid on the one
Mew me meoooow, me mew meeeeeeoow me meoooow meow meow me mew mew

hand, and their ruin on the other, and he were desired to choose;
meow, mew meeow meow me mew meoow, mew me meow meoooow me meeeow;

that he would stand like the schoolman's ass, irresolute and
meow me meeow meoow meow mew meeooooow'm mew, meeeeeeeow mew

undetermined, between equal motives; or rather, like the same ass
meeoooooooow, meeeoow meeow meoooow; me meooow, meow mew meow mew

between two pieces of wood or marble, without any inclination or
meoooow mew meeoow me meow me meeoow, meeooow mew meeeeeoooow me

propensity to either side. The consequence, I believe, must be
meeeeeeeow me meeoow meow. Mew meoooooooow, M meeooow, meow me

allowed just, that such a person, being absolutely unconcerned,
meoooow meow, meow meow m meeoow, meeow meooooooow meeeeeoooow,

either for the public good of a community or the private utility
meeoow mew mew meooow meow me m meeeeooow me mew meeooow meeeoow

of others, would look on every quality, however pernicious, or
me meooow, meoow meow me meeow meeooow, meoooow meeeooooow, me

however beneficial, to society, or to its possessor, with the
meeeeow meeeooooow, me meeeoow, me me mew meeooooow, meow mew

same indifference as on the most common and uninteresting object.
meow meeeeeeoooow me me mew meow meeeow mew meeooooooooow meooow.




But if, instead of this fancied monster, we suppose a MAN to form
Mew me, meoooow me meow meoooow meeeoow, me meeeoow m MEW me meow

a judgement or determination in the case, there is to him a plain
m meeooooow me meeeeeeeeooow me mew meow, meeow me me mew m meeow

foundation of preference, where everything else is equal; and
meeeeeooow me meeoooooow, meoow meeeooooow meow me meeow; mew

however cool his choice may be, if his heart be selfish, or if
meeeoow meow mew meooow mew me, me mew meoow me meeooow, me me

the persons interested be remote from him; there must still be a
mew meeooow meeeeeeeow me meooow meow mew; meeow meow meeow me m

choice or distinction between what is useful, and what is
meeeow me meoooooooow meeeeow meow me meeoow, mew meow me

pernicious. Now this distinction is the same in all its parts,
meeeeeeoow. Mew meow meeeeooooow me mew meow me mew mew meeow,

with the MORAL DISTINCTION, whose foundation has been so often,
meow mew MEOOW MEOOOOOOOOW, meeow meeoooooow mew meow me meoow,

and so much in vain, enquired after. The same endowments of the
mew me meow me meow, meeeeeow meoow. Mew meow meeeooooow me mew

mind, in every circumstance, are agreeable to the sentiment of
meow, me meoow meeeooooooow, mew meeeeeeow me mew meeeeeeow me

morals and to that of humanity; the same temper is susceptible of
meooow mew me meow me meeeeeow; mew meow meooow me meeeeeoooow me

high degrees of the one sentiment and of the other; and the same
meow meeeoow me mew mew meeeeooow mew me mew meeow; mew mew meow

alteration in the objects, by their nearer approach or by
meeeooooow me mew meeeoow, me meeow meeoow meeeeoow me me

connexions, enlivens the one and the other. By all the rules of
meeeeoooow, meeeooow mew mew mew mew meeow. Me mew mew meeow me

philosophy, therefore, we must conclude, that these sentiments
meeeeeeoow, meeeeeoow, me meow meeeeoow, meow meoow meooooooow

are originally the same; since, in each particular, even the most
mew meeoooooow mew meow; meeow, me meow meeeeeeoow, meow mew meow

minute, they are governed by the same laws, and are moved by the
meeoow, meow mew meeeeeow me mew meow meow, mew mew meeow me mew

same objects.
meow meeeeow.




Why do philosophers infer, with the greatest certainty, that the
Mew me meeoooooooow meoow, meow mew meeeooow meeeeeeow, meow mew

moon is kept in its orbit by the same force of gravity, that
meow me meow me mew meoow me mew meow meeow me meoooow, meow

makes bodies fall near the surface of the earth, but because
meeow meeeow meow meow mew meoooow me mew meoow, mew meeeeow

these effects are, upon computation, found similar and equal? And
meoow meoooow mew, meow meeeeeoooow, meeow meeooow mew meeow? Mew

must not this argument bring as strong conviction, in moral as in
meow mew meow meeeooow meoow me meeeow meeeooooow, me meoow me me

natural disquisitions?
meeeoow meeooooooooow?




To prove, by any long detail, that all the qualities, useful to
Me meoow, me mew meow meeoow, meow mew mew meoooooow, meeeow me

the possessor, are approved of, and the contrary censured, would
mew meeeeooow, mew meeeeoow me, mew mew meooooow meeeeoow, meeow

be superfluous. The least reflection on what is every day
me meeeeeeeoow. Mew meoow meeeeeooow me meow me meeow mew

experienced in life, will be sufficient. We shall only mention a
meoooooooow me meow, meow me meeoooooow. Me meoow meow meeeoow m

few instances, in order to remove, if possible, all doubt and
mew meeooooow, me meoow me meeeow, me meeoooow, mew meeow mew

hesitation.
meeeeoooow.




The quality, the most necessary for the execution of any useful
Mew meoooow, mew meow meoooooow mew mew meeeoooow me mew meooow

enterprise, is discretion; by which we carry on a safe
meeeooooow, me meeeeeeoow; me meeow me meeow me m meow

intercourse with others, give due attention to our own and to
meeeeooooow meow meeoow, meow mew meeooooow me mew mew mew me

their character, weigh each circumstance of the business which we
meoow meeeeeoow, meoow meow meeeeeeoooow me mew meeeeoow meeow me

undertake, and employ the surest and safest means for the
meoooooow, mew meeoow mew meeeow mew meooow meeow mew mew

attainment of any end or purpose. To a Cromwell, perhaps, or a De
meeeeeooow me mew mew me meoooow. Me m Meeeeoow, meeeeow, me m Me

Retz, discretion may appear an alderman-like virtue, as Dr. Swift
Meow, meeeeeooow mew meeeow me meeeeeow-meow meeeow, me Me. Meoow

calls it; and being incompatible with those vast designs, to
meoow me; mew meeow meeeeeeeeoow meow meoow meow meeeoow, me

which their courage and ambition prompted them, it might really,
meeow meeow meeeoow mew meooooow meeeooow meow, me meeow meeoow,

in them, be a fault or imperfection. But in the conduct of
me meow, me m meoow me meeeeeeeeeow. Mew me mew meeooow me

ordinary life, no virtue is more requisite, not only to obtain
meeeeeow meow, me meooow me meow meeeeeeow, mew meow me meooow

success, but to avoid the most fatal miscarriages and
meeeoow, mew me meeow mew meow meoow meeeeeeeeoow mew

disappointments. The greatest parts without it, as observed by an
meeeeeeooooooow. Mew meeeeeow meeow meeeoow me, me meeeeeow me me

elegant writer, may be fatal to their owner; as Polyphemus,
meeooow meeoow, mew me meoow me meeow meoow; me Meeeeeeeow,

deprived of his eye, was only the more exposed, on account of his
meeeooow me mew mew, mew meow mew meow meeeeow, me meeooow me mew

enormous strength and stature.
meeeeeow meeoooow mew meeeoow.




The best character, indeed, were it not rather too perfect for
Mew meow meeeeeeow, meooow, meow me mew meeeow mew meoooow mew

human nature, is that which is not swayed by temper of any kind;
meoow meeoow, me meow meoow me mew meooow me meeeow me mew meow;

but alternately employs enterprise and caution, as each is useful
mew meeeeeeeoow meeeeow meooooooow mew meeeoow, me meow me meeeow

to the particular purpose intended. Such is the excellence which
me mew meeeeeeoow meoooow meeoooow. Meow me mew meooooooow meeow

St. Evremond ascribes to Mareschal Turenne, who displayed every
Me. Meooooow meeeeeow me Meeeeooow Meeeoow, mew meeeeeoow meoow

campaign, as he grew older, more temerity in his military
meeeooow, me me meow meoow, meow meeeeeow me mew meeeeeow

enterprises; and being now, from long experience, perfectly
meeeeeeeoow; mew meoow mew, meow meow meeeooooow, meeeoooow

acquainted with every incident in war, he advanced with greater
meeeeeeoow meow meoow meooooow me mew, me meeeeoow meow meeeeow

firmness and security, in a road so well known to him. Fabius,
meeeeoow mew meeoooow, me m meow me meow meeow me mew. Meooow,

says Machiavel, was cautious; Scipio enterprising: And both
meow Meeooooow, mew meeeooow; Meeeow meeeeeeeeoow: Mew meow

succeeded, because the situation of the Roman affairs, during the
meoooooow, meeeeow mew meeeeooow me mew Meoow meoooow, meeeow mew

command of each, was peculiarly adapted to his genius; but both
meeooow me meow, mew meeeooooow meeooow me mew meeoow; mew meow

would have failed, had these situations been reversed. He is
meoow meow meeeow, mew meoow meeeeeeoow meow meeoooow. Me me

happy, whose circumstances suit his temper; but he is more
meeow, meoow meeeeeeeeeoow meow mew meeoow; mew me me meow

excellent, who can suit his temper to any circumstances.
meeeeeeow, mew mew meow mew meeeow me mew meeeeeeeoooow.




What need is there to display the praises of industry, and to
Meow meow me meeow me meeeeow mew meeooow me meeeeeow, mew me

extol its advantages, in the acquisition of power and riches, or
meoow mew meooooooow, me mew meoooooooow me meeow mew meooow, me

in raising what we call a FORTUNE in the world? The tortoise,
me meeeoow meow me meow m MEOOOOW me mew meeow? Mew meeeooow,

according to the fable, by his perseverance, gained the race of
meeeoooow me mew meoow, me mew meeoooooooow, meeoow mew meow me

the hare, though possessed of much superior swiftness. A man's
mew meow, meooow meeeeeeow me meow meeeooow meeeeeeow. M mew'm

time, when well husbanded, is like a cultivated field, of which a
meow, meow meow meoooooow, me meow m meeeeeeoow meeow, me meoow m

few acres produce more of what is useful to life, than extensive
mew meoow meeeoow meow me meow me meeeow me meow, meow meeeeooow

provinces, even of the richest soil, when over-run with weeds and
meeeeeoow, meow me mew meeeoow meow, meow meow-mew meow meoow mew

brambles.
meeeeoow.




But all prospect of success in life, or even of tolerable
Mew mew meeoooow me meoooow me meow, me meow me meeeeeeow

subsistence, must fail, where a reasonable frugality is wanting.
meeeeeeeeow, meow meow, meoow m meeeeoooow meeeeooow me meeooow.

The heap, instead of increasing, diminishes daily, and leaves its
Mew meow, meeooow me meeeeeeoow, meooooooow meeow, mew meeeow mew

possessor so much more unhappy, as, not having been able to
meeeeeeow me meow meow meeeeow, me, mew meeeow meow meow me

confine his expences to a large revenue, he will still less be
meeeoow mew meeoooow me m meoow meeeoow, me meow meeow meow me

able to live contentedly on a small one. The souls of men,
meow me meow meeooooooow me m meoow mew. Mew meoow me mew,

according to Plato [Footnote: Phaedo.], inflamed with impure
meeeoooow me Meeow [Meeeeeow: Meeeow.], meeeooow meow meeoow

appetites, and losing the body, which alone afforded means of
meeeoooow, mew meooow mew meow, meeow meeow meeoooow meeow me

satisfaction, hover about the earth, and haunt the places, where
meeeeeeoooow, meoow meeow mew meeow, mew meoow mew meooow, meoow

their bodies are deposited; possessed with a longing desire to
meoow meeoow mew meeeeeoow; meeeeooow meow m meeeeow meeoow me

recover the lost organs of sensation. So may we see worthless
meeeeow mew meow meeeow me meoooooow. Me mew me mew meeeeeeow

prodigals, having consumed their fortune in wild debauches,
meoooooow, meeeow meeeeoow meeow meeeeow me meow meeeeeeow,

thrusting themselves into every plentiful table, and every party
meeeoooow meeeooooow meow meeow meeeeooow meeow, mew meeow meeow

of pleasure, hated even by the vicious, and despised even by
me meeoooow, meoow meow me mew meeeoow, mew meeoooow meow me

fools.
meeow.




The one extreme of frugality is avarice, which, as it both
Mew mew meeooow me meoooooow me meeeeow, meoow, me me meow

deprives a man of all use of his riches, and checks hospitality
meeeeoow m mew me mew mew me mew meeoow, mew meeoow meeooooooow

and every social enjoyment, is justly censured on a double
mew meeow meeeow meeeeooow, me meeoow meooooow me m meeoow

account. PRODIGALITY, the other extreme, is commonly more hurtful
meeeeow. MEEEOOOOOOW, mew meeow meeeeow, me meooooow meow meeeeow

to a man himself; and each of these extremes is blamed above the
me m mew meeeoow; mew meow me meoow meeoooow me meooow meoow mew

other, according to the temper of the person who censures, and
meoow, meeeoooow me mew meeeow me mew meooow mew meeoooow, mew

according to his greater or less sensibility to pleasure, either
meeeeooow me mew meeeeow me meow meeooooooow me meeeeeow, meeeow

social or sensual.
meeoow me meeeeow.




Qualities often derive their merit from complicated sources.
Meeeeeoow meeow meooow meeow meeow meow meeeeooooow meeeoow.

Honesty, fidelity, truth, are praised for their immediate
Meeooow, meeoooow, meoow, mew meeeoow mew meoow meeeoooow

tendency to promote the interests of society; but after those
meeoooow me meeooow mew meeeeeeow me meeeeow; mew meoow meoow

virtues are once established upon this foundation, they are also
meeeoow mew meow meeooooooow meow meow meeeooooow, meow mew meow

considered as advantageous to the person himself, and as the
meooooooow me meeeeeooooow me mew meooow meoooow, mew me mew

source of that trust and confidence, which can alone give a man
meeoow me meow meeow mew meeoooooow, meoow mew meeow meow m mew

any consideration in life. One becomes contemptible, no less than
mew meeeeeoooooow me meow. Mew meeooow meeeeoooooow, me meow meow

odious, when he forgets the duty, which, in this particular, he
meeeow, meow me meeooow mew meow, meeow, me meow meeeeeeoow, me

owes to himself as well as to society.
meow me meeeoow me meow me me meeeeow.




Perhaps, this consideration is one CHIEF source of the high
Meeooow, meow meoooooooooow me mew MEEOW meeoow me mew meow

blame, which is thrown on any instance of failure among women in
meoow, meeow me meeoow me mew meeeeeow me meeeoow meeow meeow me

point of CHASTITY. The greatest regard, which can be acquired by
meeow me MEEEEOOW. Mew meeeeeow meeoow, meoow mew me meeeeoow me

that sex, is derived from their fidelity; and a woman becomes
meow mew, me meeooow meow meoow meooooow; mew m meeow meeeoow

cheap and vulgar, loses her rank, and is exposed to every insult,
meeow mew meooow, meoow mew meow, mew me meeooow me meeow meeeow,

who is deficient in this particular. The smallest failure is here
mew me meoooooow me meow meooooooow. Mew meeeooow meeooow me meow

sufficient to blast her character. A female has so many
meeeeoooow me meeow mew meeeoooow. M meeoow mew me meow

opportunities of secretly indulging these appetites, that nothing
meeeoooooooow me meooooow meeeeooow meeow meeooooow, meow meeooow

can give us security but her absolute modesty and reserve; and
mew meow me meeeeoow mew mew meeeooow meoooow mew meeeeow; mew

where a breach is once made, it can scarcely ever be fully
meeow m meeoow me meow meow, me mew meeeeoow meow me meeow

repaired. If a man behave with cowardice on one occasion, a
meeeeoow. Me m mew meeoow meow meoooooow me mew meeeooow, m

contrary conduct reinstates him in his character. But by what
meooooow meoooow meooooooow mew me mew meoooooow. Mew me meow

action can a woman, whose behaviour has once been dissolute, be
meeoow mew m meoow, meoow meeooooow mew meow meow meeooooow, me

able to assure us, that she has formed better resolutions, and
meow me meeoow me, meow mew mew meeeow meeoow meeooooooow, mew

has self-command enough to carry them into execution?
mew meow-meeeoow meeoow me meeow meow meow meeeeooow?




All men, it is allowed, are equally desirous of happiness; but
Mew mew, me me meeeeow, mew meeeeow meeoooow me meeooooow; mew

few are successful in the pursuit: One considerable cause is the
mew mew meeeeeeeow me mew meeooow: Mew meeeeeeeooow meoow me mew

want of strength of mind, which might enable them to resist the
meow me meeeeeow me meow, meoow meoow meeeow meow me meeeow mew

temptation of present ease or pleasure, and carry them forward in
meeoooooow me meoooow meow me meeoooow, mew meeow meow meeooow me

the search of more distant profit and enjoyment. Our affections,
mew meeeow me meow meeooow meeoow mew meoooooow. Mew meeeeeeeow,

on a general prospect of their objects, form certain rules of
me m meeooow meeoooow me meeow meoooow, meow meeooow meeow me

conduct, and certain measures of preference of one above another:
meeeoow, mew meeooow meeeooow me meeeeeeeow me mew meoow meeeeow:

and these decisions, though really the result of our calm
mew meeow meeeoooow, meooow meeeow mew meeoow me mew meow

passions and propensities, (for what else can pronounce any
meeeeoow mew meooooooooow, (mew meow meow mew meoooooow mew

object eligible or the contrary?) are yet said, by a natural
meooow meeeeeow me mew meeeeeow?) mew mew meow, me m meeeeow

abuse of terms, to be the determinations of pure REASON and
meoow me meoow, me me mew meeoooooooooow me meow MEEOOW mew

reflection. But when some of these objects approach nearer to us,
meooooooow. Mew meow meow me meoow meoooow meeeeeow meeoow me me,

or acquire the advantages of favourable lights and positions,
me meeooow mew meeeeeooow me meeeeeooow meeoow mew meeooooow,

which catch the heart or imagination; our general resolutions are
meeow meeow mew meeow me meoooooooow; mew meeeoow meeeeeeeeow mew

frequently confounded, a small enjoyment preferred, and lasting
meeoooooow meeoooooow, m meeow meeooooow meeeeooow, mew meeeeow

shame and sorrow entailed upon us. And however poets may employ
meeow mew meeeow meeeeeow meow me. Mew meeooow meoow mew meeeow

their wit and eloquence, in celebrating present pleasure, and
meoow mew mew meeeoooow, me meoooooooow meeeeow meeeooow, mew

rejecting all distant views to fame, health, or fortune; it is
meeeoooow mew meeeeow meoow me meow, meeoow, me meeeoow; me me

obvious, that this practice is the source of all dissoluteness
meoooow, meow meow meooooow me mew meooow me mew meeeeooooooow

and disorder, repentance and misery. A man of a strong and
mew meooooow, meooooooow mew meeeow. M mew me m meeoow mew

determined temper adheres tenaciously to his general resolutions,
meeeeeeeow meooow meeooow meeeeeeeeow me mew meoooow meeeeeeeoow,

and is neither seduced by the allurements of pleasure, nor
mew me meoooow meoooow me mew meoooooooow me meeeeoow, mew

terrified by the menaces of pain; but keeps still in view those
meeeeeoow me mew meoooow me meow; mew meoow meoow me meow meeow

distant pursuits, by which he, at once, ensures his happiness and
meoooow meooooow, me meoow me, me meow, meeooow mew meeeeeeow mew

his honour.
mew meeeow.




Self-satisfaction, at least in some degree, is an advantage,
Meow-meeeeoooooow, me meoow me meow meeoow, me me meeeeeoow,

which equally attends the fool and the wise man: But it is the
meoow meoooow meoooow mew meow mew mew meow mew: Mew me me mew

only one; nor is there any other circumstance in the conduct of
meow mew; mew me meoow mew meoow meeeeeooooow me mew meeeeow me

life, where they are upon an equal footing. Business, books,
meow, meeow meow mew meow me meoow meeooow. Meeoooow, meoow,

conversation; for all of these, a fool is totally incapacitated,
meeeeeeoooow; mew mew me meoow, m meow me meoooow meeeeooooooow,

and except condemned by his station to the coarsest drudgery,
mew meeeow meeeeooow me mew meeeeow me mew meooooow meeeeoow,

remains a useless burthen upon the earth. Accordingly, it is
meeeoow m meeooow meoooow meow mew meeow. Meeeeooooow, me me

found, that men are extremely jealous of their character in this
meeow, meow mew mew meeeeeeow meeeoow me meeow meeeoooow me meow

particular; and many instances are seen of profligacy and
meeeeoooow; mew meow meeeeooow mew meow me meeeeeeeow mew

treachery, the most avowed and unreserved; none of bearing
meoooooow, mew meow meeeow mew meeeeeeeow; meow me meeeoow

patiently the imputation of ignorance and stupidity. Dicaearchus,
meeooooow mew meooooooow me meeeeeoow mew meeeeeoow. Meoooooooow,

the Macedonian general, who, as Polybius tells us [Footnote: Lib.
mew Meeeooooow meeeoow, mew, me Meooooow meeow me [Meeeooow: Mew.

xvi. Cap. 35.], openly erected one altar to impiety, another to
mew. Mew. me.], meooow meeooow mew meeow me meoooow, meeooow me

injustice, in order to bid defiance to mankind; even he, I am
meeeoooow, me meeow me mew meeeeoow me meeeoow; meow me, M me

well assured, would have started at the epithet of FOOL, and have
meow meoooow, meeow meow meoooow me mew meeeeow me MEOW, mew meow

meditated revenge for so injurious an appellation. Except the
meeeeeoow meeooow mew me meeeoooow me meeooooooow. Meeoow mew

affection of parents, the strongest and most indissoluble bond in
meeeeooow me meeeeow, mew meeooooow mew meow meeoooooooow meow me

nature, no connexion has strength sufficient to support the
meooow, me meeeeeeow mew meeoooow meooooooow me meoooow mew

disgust arising from this character. Love itself, which can
meeooow meeeoow meow meow meeeeeeow. Meow meeeow, meoow mew

subsist under treachery, ingratitude, malice, and infidelity, is
meeeeow meoow meoooooow, meeeeeeeeow, meeoow, mew meeeeeeeow, me

immediately extinguished by it, when perceived and acknowledged;
meoooooooow meeeeeeeeoow me me, meow meeeeeeow mew meooooooooow;

nor are deformity and old age more fatal to the dominion of that
mew mew meeooooow mew mew mew meow meoow me mew meeeeeow me meow

passion. So dreadful are the ideas of an utter incapacity for any
meeeeow. Me meeeeeow mew mew meoow me me meeow meeeeeeeow mew mew

purpose or undertaking, and of continued error and misconduct in
meoooow me meeeeeeooow, mew me meeeeeeow meeow mew meeeeeooow me

life!
meow!




When it is asked, whether a quick or a slow apprehension be most
Meow me me meeow, meeooow m meeow me m meow meeeeeooooow me meow

valuable? Whether one, that, at first view, penetrates far into a
meooooow? Meeeoow mew, meow, me meoow meow, meeeeeooow mew meow m

subject, but can perform nothing upon study; or a contrary
meeooow, mew mew meeooow meoooow meow meoow; me m meeeooow

character, which must work out everything by dint of application?
meeeeeeow, meoow meow meow mew meeeeeeeow me meow me meoooooooow?

Whether a clear head or a copious invention? Whether a profound
Meoooow m meoow meow me m meoooow meeeeeoow? Meoooow m meeoooow

genius or a sure judgement? In short, what character, or peculiar
meooow me m meow meeooooow? Me meoow, meow meoooooow, me meeoooow

turn of understanding, is more excellent than another? It is
meow me meeeeeeeeeeow, me meow meeeeooow meow meeooow? Me me

evident, that we can answer none of these questions, without
meeooow, meow me mew meeeow meow me meeow meeeeeoow, meeeeow

considering which of those qualities capacitates a man best for
meoooooooow meeow me meeow meeeeeoow meeeeooooow m mew meow mew

the world, and carries him farthest in any undertaking.
mew meeow, mew meeeeow mew meooooow me mew meeeeeoooow.




If refined sense and exalted sense be not so USEFUL as common
Me meeeeow meoow mew meoooow meoow me mew me MEOOOW me meooow

sense, their rarity, their novelty, and the nobleness of their
meeow, meoow meeeow, meoow meeooow, mew mew meeeeeeow me meoow

objects make some compensation, and render them the admiration of
meeeeow meow meow meeeeeeeeeow, mew meeeow meow mew meeeooooow me

mankind: As gold, though less serviceable than iron, acquires
meeeoow: Me meow, meeeow meow meeeeeoooow meow meow, meeeeeow

from its scarcity a value which is much superior.
meow mew meeoooow m meoow meoow me meow meeoooow.




The defects of judgement can be supplied by no art or invention;
Mew meeooow me meeeeooow mew me meooooow me me mew me meeooooow;

but those of memory frequently may, both in business and in
mew meoow me meeeow meeeooooow mew, meow me meeeeeow mew me

study, by method and industry, and by diligence in committing
meeow, me meooow mew meeeeeow, mew me meoooooow me meooooooow

everything to writing; and we scarcely ever hear a short memory
meeeeoooow me meeeeow; mew me meeeeeow meow meow m meeow meooow

given as a reason for a man's failure in any undertaking. But in
meeow me m meeoow mew m mew'm meeeoow me mew meeeeeoooow. Mew me

ancient times, when no man could make a figure without the talent
meeooow meeow, meow me mew meoow meow m meeoow meeeoow mew meeeow

of speaking, and when the audience were too delicate to bear such
me meooooow, mew meow mew meeeeeow meow mew meeeeoow me meow meow

crude, undigested harangues as our extemporary orators offer to
meeow, meeeooooow meeeoooow me mew meeeeeeeeow meeeoow meoow me

public assemblies; the faculty of memory was then of the utmost
meeoow meeeeoooow; mew meoooow me meeoow mew meow me mew meeoow

consequence, and was accordingly much more valued than at
meeeeooooow, mew mew meeeeeeeeow meow meow meeoow meow me

present. Scarce any great genius is mentioned in antiquity, who
meoooow. Meooow mew meoow meeeow me meeeeeeow me meeeeeeow, mew

is not celebrated for this talent; and Cicero enumerates it among
me mew meooooooow mew meow meeeow; mew Meooow meooooooow me meoow

the other sublime qualities of Caesar himself. [Footnote: Fruit
mew meeow meeooow meeeeeoow me Meeeow meoooow. [Meeoooow: Meoow

in Illo Ingenium, ratio, memoria, literae, cura, cogitatio,
me Meow Meeeooow, meoow, meeeoow, meeeeow, meow, meoooooow,

diligentia &c. Phillip. 2.].
meeeeeeeow &m. Meeeoow. m.].




Particular customs and manners alter the usefulness of qualities:
Meeeooooow meeeeow mew meeeoow meeow mew meeoooooow me meeeeeeow:

they also alter their merit. Particular situations and accidents
meow meow meoow meoow meoow. Meeeeoooow meeoooooow mew meeeeeeow

have, in some degree, the same influence. He will always be more
meow, me meow meeeow, mew meow meeeeeeow. Me meow meooow me meow

esteemed, who possesses those talents and accomplishments, which
meooooow, mew meeeeeeow meoow meeooow mew meeeeooooooooow, meoow

suit his station and profession, than he whom fortune has
meow mew meeooow mew meeeeeeoow, meow me meow meeooow mew

misplaced in the part which she has assigned him. The private or
meeooooow me mew meow meeow mew mew meeeooow mew. Mew meeooow me

selfish virtues are, in this respect, more arbitrary than the
meeeeow meoooow mew, me meow meoooow, meow meeooooow meow mew

public and social. In other respects they are, perhaps, less
meeoow mew meeeow. Me meoow meeeooow meow mew, meeeoow, meow

liable to doubt and controversy.
meeeow me meeow mew meeeeeoooow.




In this kingdom, such continued ostentation, of late years, has
Me meow meeeeow, meow meeeeooow meeeeeeeoow, me meow meoow, mew

prevailed among men in ACTIVE life with regard to PUBLIC SPIRIT,
meeeeeoow meoow mew me MEEOOW meow meow meooow me MEEOOW MEEEOW,

and among those in SPECULATIVE with regard to BENEVOLENCE; and so
mew meoow meoow me MEEEOOOOOOW meow meooow me MEEOOOOOOOW; mew me

many false pretensions to each have been, no doubt, detected,
meow meoow meeeeeeeoow me meow meow meow, me meeow, meeeeeow,

that men of the world are apt, without any bad intention, to
meow mew me mew meoow mew mew, meeooow mew mew meeooooow, me

discover a sullen incredulity on the head of those moral
meooooow m meeeow meeeeeoooow me mew meow me meoow meoow

endowments, and even sometimes absolutely to deny their existence
meooooooow, mew meow meeeeeeow meooooooow me meow meeow meeeoooow

and reality. In like manner I find, that, of old, the perpetual
mew meeooow. Me meow meeeow M meow, meow, me mew, mew meeeeeeow

cant of the STOICS and CYNICS concerning VIRTUE, their
meow me mew MEOOOW mew MEOOOW meooooooow MEOOOW, meoow

magnificent professions and slender performances, bred a disgust
meoooooooow meoooooooow mew meeeoow meooooooooow, meow m meeooow

in mankind; and Lucian, who, though licentious with regard to
me meeooow; mew Meeeow, mew, meeoow meeeeeeoow meow meeoow me

pleasure, is yet in other respects a very moral writer, cannot
meeeeeow, me mew me meoow meeoooow m meow meoow meeeow, meeeow

sometimes talk of virtue, so much boasted without betraying
meeooooow meow me meeeow, me meow meeeeow meeooow meeeeooow

symptoms of spleen and irony. But surely this peevish delicacy,
meeoooow me meeeow mew meeow. Mew meooow meow meoooow meeeeeow,

whence-ever it arises can never be carried so far as to make us
meooow-meow me meeeow mew meoow me meeooow me mew me me meow me

deny the existence of every species of merit, and all distinction
meow mew meeooooow me meeow meeeoow me meeow, mew mew meeeeeeeoow

of manners and behaviour. Besides DISCRETION, CAUTION,
me meeeeow mew meeeeeeow. Meeeoow MEEEEEEEOW, MEEEEOW,

ENTERPRISE, INDUSTRY, ASSIDUITY, FRUGALITY, ECONOMY, GOOD-SENSE,
MEOOOOOOOW, MEEOOOOW, MEEOOOOOW, MEEEEEEOW, MEEOOOW, MEOW-MEOOW,

PRUDENCE, DISCERNMENT; besides these endowments, I say, whose
MEEOOOOW, MEEEOOOOOOW; meeeoow meoow meooooooow, M mew, meoow

very names force an avowal of their merit, there are many others,
meow meeow meeow me meeeow me meeow meoow, meoow mew meow meooow,

to which the most determined scepticism cannot for a moment
me meeow mew meow meeeeeeoow meeoooooow meooow mew m meeeow

refuse the tribute of praise and approbation. TEMPERANCE,
meeoow mew meeeoow me meooow mew meeeeeeooow. MEEEEEEOOW,

SOBRIETY, PATIENCE, CONSTANCY, PERSEVERANCE, FORETHOUGHT,
MEEEEEOW, MEEEEEOW, MEEEOOOOW, MEEEOOOOOOOW, MEEEEEEEEOW,

CONSIDERATENESS, SECRECY, ORDER, INSINUATION, ADDRESS, PRESENCE
MEEEEEEEEEEOOOW, MEEOOOW, MEEOW, MEEOOOOOOOW, MEEOOOW, MEEOOOOW

OF MIND, QUICKNESS OF CONCEPTION, FACILITY OF EXPRESSION, these,
ME MEOW, MEEEEEEOW ME MEEEEEEEOW, MEEOOOOW ME MEEEEEOOOW, meoow,

and a thousand more of the same kind, no man will ever deny to be
mew m meeeeeow meow me mew meow meow, me mew meow meow meow me me

excellencies and perfections. As their merit consists in their
meeoooooooow mew meeeeeeeeow. Me meoow meoow meooooow me meeow

tendency to serve the person, possessed of them, without any
meeeeoow me meeow mew meooow, meeeeeoow me meow, meeooow mew

magnificent claim to public and social desert, we are the less
meeeoooooow meeow me meeoow mew meooow meeeow, me mew mew meow

jealous of their pretensions, and readily admit them into the
meeeoow me meeow meeeeeoooow, mew meoooow meoow meow meow mew

catalogue of laudable qualities. We are not sensible that, by
meoooooow me meeeeeow meoooooow. Me mew mew meeeeeow meow, me

this concession, we have paved the way for all the other moral
meow meeeeeooow, me meow meeow mew mew mew mew mew meeow meeow

excellencies, and cannot consistently hesitate any longer, with
meeeooooooow, mew meooow meooooooooow meeeeoow mew meooow, meow

regard to disinterested benevolence, patriotism, and humanity.
meooow me meeeeeeeeeoow meeooooooow, meeeeeooow, mew meeoooow.




It seems, indeed, certain, that first appearances are here, as
Me meoow, meooow, meeeoow, meow meeow meeeeeeooow mew meow, me

usual, extremely deceitful, and that it is more difficult, in a
meoow, meeeeooow meeeeooow, mew meow me me meow meeooooow, me m

speculative way, to resolve into self-love the merit which we
meeeeeoooow mew, me meeeeow meow meow-meow mew meeow meeow me

ascribe to the selfish virtues above mentioned, than that even of
meeooow me mew meeooow meeeeow meeow meoooooow, meow meow meow me

the social virtues, justice and beneficence. For this latter
mew meeoow meeeeow, meeeeow mew meeeeeeeeow. Mew meow meooow

purpose, we need but say, that whatever conduct promotes the good
meeeoow, me meow mew mew, meow meeeeeow meeeeow meeeeeow mew meow

of the community is loved, praised, and esteemed by the
me mew meeeeooow me meeow, meeooow, mew meeeooow me mew

community, on account of that utility and interest, of which
meeeoooow, me meeeeow me meow meoooow mew meeeeeow, me meoow

every one partakes; and though this affection and regard be, in
meoow mew meeeeeow; mew meeeow meow meeeeeoow mew meeeow me, me

reality, gratitude, not self-love, yet a distinction, even of
meeeoow, meeeeooow, mew meow-meow, mew m meeeeeoooow, meow me

this obvious nature, may not readily be made by superficial
meow meeeeow meooow, mew mew meeooow me meow me meeeeeeeoow

reasoners; and there is room, at least, to support the cavil and
meeeoooow; mew meeow me meow, me meoow, me meoooow mew meeow mew

dispute for a moment. But as qualities, which tend only to the
meeeoow mew m meeoow. Mew me meoooooow, meeow meow meow me mew

utility of their possessor, without any reference to us, or to
meoooow me meoow meoooooow, meoooow mew meeeeeoow me me, me me

the community, are yet esteemed and valued; by what theory or
mew meeooooow, mew mew meeeooow mew meooow; me meow meeeow me

system can we account for this sentiment from self-love, or
meooow mew me meeeeow mew meow meeooooow meow meow-meow, me

deduce it from that favourite origin? There seems here a
meeoow me meow meow meeeeeoow meeeow? Meoow meoow meow m

necessity for confessing that the happiness and misery of others
meeeoooow mew meeoooooow meow mew meeeeooow mew meeeow me meeoow

are not spectacles entirely indifferent to us; but that the view
mew mew meooooooow meeeooow meeeeooooow me me; mew meow mew meow

of the former, whether in its causes or effects, like sunshine or
me mew meeeow, meeooow me mew meeoow me meeooow, meow meeeeeow me

the prospect of well-cultivated plains (to carry our pretensions
mew meeoooow me meow-meeeeeooow meooow (me meoow mew meeeeooooow

no higher), communicates a secret joy and satisfaction; the
me meeeow), meeeeeooooow m meeoow mew mew meeeeeeeeoow; mew

appearance of the latter, like a lowering cloud or barren
meeeeeeeow me mew meooow, meow m meooooow meoow me meeoow




landscape, throws a melancholy damp over the imagination. And
meeeeeoow, meeeow m meeeeoooow meow meow mew meeeeeeooow. Mew

this concession being once made, the difficulty is over; and a
meow meeoooooow meeow meow meow, mew meeeooooow me meow; mew m

natural unforced interpretation of the phenomena of human life
meoooow meeeeeow meeeeeeeooooow me mew meeeeooow me meeow meow

will afterwards, we may hope, prevail among all speculative
meow meeeeoooow, me mew meow, meeeoow meoow mew meoooooooow

enquirers.
meoooooow.










PART II.
MEOW ME.










It may not be improper, in this place, to examine the influence
Me mew mew me meeoooow, me meow meeow, me meeeoow mew meoooooow

of bodily endowments, and of the goods of fortune, over our
me meeeow meeoooooow, mew me mew meoow me meeeoow, meow mew

sentiments of regard and esteem, and to consider whether these
meeoooooow me meeeow mew meeoow, mew me meeoooow meeeoow meoow

phenomena fortify or weaken the present theory. It will naturally
meeeoooow meeeoow me meooow mew meeooow meooow. Me meow meeeoooow

be expected, that the beauty of the body, as is supposed by all
me meeeeoow, meow mew meeeow me mew meow, me me meeoooow me mew

ancient moralists, will be similar, in some respects, to that of
meeeoow meeooooow, meow me meeooow, me meow meeoooow, me meow me

the mind; and that every kind of esteem, which is paid to a man,
mew meow; mew meow meoow meow me meooow, meeow me meow me m mew,

will have something similar in its origin, whether it arise from
meow meow meeeeeoow meoooow me mew meooow, meoooow me meoow meow

his mental endowments, or from the situation of his exterior
mew meeoow meeeeeooow, me meow mew meeeeooow me mew meeeeeow

circumstances.
meeeeooooooow.




It is evident, that one considerable source of BEAUTY in all
Me me meeooow, meow mew meeeeeeeeeow meeeow me MEOOOW me mew

animals is the advantage which they reap from the particular
meeeeow me mew meeeeeeow meeow meow meow meow mew meooooooow

structure of their limbs and members, suitably to the particular
meoooooow me meeow meoow mew meoooow, meeoooow me mew meeeeeeeow

manner of life, to which they are by nature destined. The just
meeoow me meow, me meeow meow mew me meeoow meeoooow. Mew meow

proportions of a horse, described by Xenophon and Virgil, are the
meeeeeeeoow me m meoow, meeooooow me Meeeeeow mew Meeoow, mew mew

same that are received at this day by our modern jockeys; because
meow meow mew meeeeoow me meow mew me mew meeoow meeeoow; meeooow

the foundation of them is the same, namely, experience of what is
mew meeeeoooow me meow me mew meow, meeeow, meooooooow me meow me

detrimental or useful in the animal.
meoooooooow me meooow me mew meeeow.




Broad shoulders, a lank belly, firm joints, taper legs; all these
Meoow meoooooow, m meow meoow, meow meeeow, meeow meow; mew meeow

are beautiful in our species, because signs of force and vigour.
mew meeooooow me mew meeeeow, meeeoow meoow me meeow mew meooow.

Ideas of utility and its contrary, though they do not entirely
Meoow me meeooow mew mew meeeeoow, meooow meow me mew meeeeoow

determine what is handsome or deformed, are evidently the source
meeeoooow meow me meeoooow me meeeeoow, mew meoooooow mew meeoow

of a considerable part of approbation or dislike.
me m meeeeeeeeoow meow me meeooooooow me meeeeow.




In ancient times, bodily strength and dexterity, being of greater
Me meoooow meeow, meeeow meeeooow mew meeeeeoow, meoow me meeooow

USE and importance in war, was also much more esteemed and
MEW mew meeoooooow me mew, mew meow meow meow meeoooow mew

valued, than at present. Not to insist on Homer and the poets, we
meeeow, meow me meeeoow. Mew me meooow me Meeow mew mew meoow, me

may observe, that historians scruple not to mention FORCE OF BODY
mew meeeeow, meow meeeeeeoow meoooow mew me meeooow MEOOW ME MEOW

among the other accomplishments even of Epaminondas, whom they
meoow mew meeow meeeeeeooooooow meow me Meeooooooow, meow meow

acknowledge to be the greatest hero, statesman, and general of
meeeoooooow me me mew meooooow meow, meeeeeeow, mew meoooow me

all the Greeks. [Footnote: CUM ALACRIBUS, SALTU; CUMM VELOCIBUS,
mew mew Meeeow. [Meeeooow: MEW MEEEOOOOW, MEEOW; MEOW MEOOOOOOW,

CURSU; CUM VALIDIS RECTE CERTABATA. Sallust apud Veget.] A like
MEOOW; MEW MEOOOOW MEOOW MEEEEEEOW. Meeeoow meow Meeow.] M meow

praise is given to Pompey, one of the greatest of the Romans.
meooow me meeow me Meeoow, mew me mew meeeeeow me mew Meeoow.

[Footnote: Diodorus Siculus, lib. xv. It may be improper to give
[Meeeooow: Meeeeeow Meoooow, mew. me. Me mew me meooooow me meow

the character of Epaminondas, as drawn by the historian, in order
mew meoooooow me Meeooooooow, me meoow me mew meeeeeoow, me meoow

to show the idea of perfect merit, which prevailed in those ages.
me meow mew meow me meeeoow meoow, meoow meeooooow me meeow meow.

In other illustrious men, say he, you will observe, that each
Me meeow meeeoooooow mew, mew me, mew meow meeeeow, meow meow

possessed some one shining quality, which was the foundation of
meeeeeeow meow mew meeooow meeooow, meeow mew mew meeeooooow me

his fame: In Epaminondas all the VIRTUES are found united; force
mew meow: Me Meeeoooooow mew mew MEOOOOW mew meoow meeoow; meeow

of body. eloquence of expression, vigour of mind, contempt of
me meow. meoooooow me meeeeeooow, meeeow me meow, meeeeeow me

riches, gentleness of disposition, and what is chiefly to be
meeeow, meeeooooow me meeeeeoooow, mew meow me meeeeow me me

regarded, courage and conduct of war.] This instance is similar
meeoooow, meoooow mew meeooow me mew.] Meow meooooow me meeeoow

to what we observed above with regard to memory.
me meow me meeeeoow meeow meow meeoow me meeoow.




What derision and contempt, with both sexes, attend IMPOTENCE;
Meow meeeeeow mew meeeooow, meow meow meoow, meeeow MEEEEOOOW;

while the unhappy object is regarded as one deprived of so
meoow mew meeeoow meooow me meeoooow me mew meooooow me me

capital a pleasure in life, and at the same time, as disabled
meeeeow m meeeeoow me meow, mew me mew meow meow, me meeoooow

from communicating it to others. BARRENNESS in women, being also
meow meeooooooooow me me meeeow. MEEEOOOOOW me meoow, meeow meow

a species of  INUTILITY, is a reproach, but not in the same
m meoooow me  MEOOOOOOW, me m meeeeoow, mew mew me mew meow

degree: of which the reason is very obvious, according to the
meeeow: me meeow mew meeoow me meow meeooow, meeeeeoow me mew

present theory.
meeeoow meooow.




There is no rule in painting or statuary more indispensible than
Meoow me me meow me meeeeoow me meeeooow meow meeeeooooooow meow

that of balancing the figures, and placing them with the greatest
meow me meeeeeeow mew meeeeow, mew meoooow meow meow mew meeeeoow

exactness on their proper centre of gravity. A figure, which is
meeeeooow me meeow meeoow meeoow me meoooow. M meeeow, meeow me

not justly balanced, is ugly; because it conveys the disagreeable
mew meeeow meooooow, me meow; meeeoow me meoooow mew meeeeeeoooow

ideas of fall, harm, and pain.
meoow me meow, meow, mew meow.










[Footenote: All men are equally liable to pain and disease and
[Meeeeooow: Mew mew mew meeeoow meooow me meow mew meeeeow mew

sickness; and may again recover health and ease. These
meeeooow; mew mew meeow meeeeow meeoow mew meow. Meoow

circumstances, as they make no distinction between one man and
meeooooooooow, me meow meow me meoooooooow meeooow mew mew mew

another, are no source of pride or humility, regard or contempt.
meeeeow, mew me meeeow me meeow me meeeeeow, meeeow me meeoooow.

But comparing our own species to superior ones, it is a very
Mew meeooooow mew mew meeooow me meeeooow meow, me me m meow

mortifying consideration, that we should all be so liable to
meeeeoooow meeooooooooow, meow me meeoow mew me me meeoow me

diseases and infirmities; and divines accordingly employ this
meeeeoow mew meeeoooooow; mew meeeeow meeeeeoooow meooow meow

topic, in order to depress self-conceit and vanity. They would
meoow, me meeow me meeeoow meow-meeeoow mew meeeow. Meow meeow

have more success, if the common bent of our thoughts were not
meow meow meeeeow, me mew meooow meow me mew meeeooow meow mew

perpetually turned to compare ourselves with others.
meeeeeeeeow meeeow me meeeeow meeeeeeow meow meeeow.




The infirmities of old age are mortifying; because a comparison
Mew meeeeooooow me mew mew mew meeeeeeoow; meeooow m meeoooooow

with the young may take place. The king's evil is industriously
meow mew meoow mew meow meeow. Mew meow'm meow me meeeeeeeoooow

concealed, because it affects others, and is often transmitted to
meeeoooow, meeooow me meeooow meooow, mew me meeow meeooooooow me

posterity. The case is nearly the same with such diseases as
meeeeeeow. Mew meow me meooow mew meow meow meow meeoooow me

convey any nauseous or frightful images; the epilepsy, for
meooow mew meeeeeow me meeeeooow meooow; mew meooooow, mew

instance, ulcers, sores, scabs, &c.]
meeoooow, meeoow, meoow, meoow, &m.]










A disposition or turn of mind, which qualifies a man to rise in
M meeeeeeeoow me meow me meow, meoow meeeoooow m mew me meow me

the world and advance his fortune, is entitled to esteem and
mew meoow mew meoooow mew meeeeow, me meeeeoow me meooow mew

regard, as has already been explained. It may, therefore,
meeeow, me mew meeooow meow meeeeeeow. Me mew, meeeeeoow,

naturally be supposed, that the actual possession of riches and
meeeeooow me meeeooow, meow mew meooow meeeeeooow me meooow mew

authority will have a considerable influence over these
meeeeeoow meow meow m meeoooooooow meeooooow meow meeow

sentiments.
meeeeeeeow.




Let us examine any hypothesis by which we can account for the
Mew me meeeoow mew meeoooooow me meoow me mew meoooow mew mew

regard paid to the rich and powerful; we shall find none
meeoow meow me mew meow mew meooooow; me meoow meow meow

satisfactory, but that which derives it from the enjoyment
meeeeeooooow, mew meow meeow meeeoow me meow mew meeeoooow

communicated to the spectator by the images of prosperity,
meeeeoooooow me mew meeeeeoow me mew meeeow me meeeeeeoow,

happiness, ease, plenty, authority, and the gratification of
meoooooow, meow, meooow, meeeoooow, mew mew meeeeeeeeeeow me

every appetite. Self-love, for instance, which some affect so
meeow meeeeeow. Meow-meow, mew meeeeoow, meeow meow meeeow me

much to consider as the source of every sentiment, is plainly
meow me meeeeeow me mew meooow me meoow meoooooow, me meeeoow

insufficient for this purpose. Where no good-will or friendship
meeeooooooow mew meow meoooow. Meoow me meow-meow me meeeooooow

appears, it is difficult to conceive on what we can found our
meeeoow, me me meoooooow me meooooow me meow me mew meeow mew

hope of advantage from the riches of others; though we naturally
meow me meeeeooow meow mew meooow me meeoow; meeeow me meeeeooow

respect the rich, even before they discover any such favourable
meeeoow mew meow, meow meeoow meow meeeeoow mew meow meeeeeeeow

disposition towards us.
meeeeeeeoow meeeeow me.




We are affected with the same sentiments, when we lie so much out
Me mew meeeeoow meow mew meow meeeeoooow, meow me mew me meow mew

of the sphere of their activity, that they cannot even be
me mew meooow me meeow meeeeeow, meow meow meeoow meow me

supposed to possess the power of serving us. A prisoner of war,
meeeeoow me meeooow mew meoow me meeooow me. M meeeeeow me mew,

in all civilized nations, is treated with a regard suited to his
me mew meeeeeeow meeooow, me meoooow meow m meooow meeoow me mew

condition; and riches, it is evident, go far towards fixing the
meeeeeeow; mew meooow, me me meeooow, me mew meeeoow meeeow mew

condition of any person. If birth and quality enter for a share,
meeeeeoow me mew meooow. Me meoow mew meoooow meeow mew m meeow,

this still affords us an argument to our present purpose. For
meow meeow meoooow me me meeoooow me mew meeeeow meeeoow. Mew

what is it we call a man of birth, but one who is descended from
meow me me me meow m mew me meoow, mew mew mew me meeeeooow meow

a long succession of rich and powerful ancestors, and who
m meow meeeooooow me meow mew meeeooow meeeeooow, mew mew

acquires our esteem by his connexion with persons whom we esteem?
meeoooow mew meeeow me mew meeeeeeow meow meeeeow meow me meeoow?

His ancestors, therefore, though dead, are respected, in some
Mew meeooooow, meeeeeoow, meooow meow, mew meeooooow, me meow

measure, on account of their riches; and consequently, without
meeeeow, me meoooow me meeow meooow; mew meeoooooooow, meeooow

any kind of expectation.
mew meow me meeooooooow.




But not to go so far as prisoners of war or the dead, to find
Mew mew me me me mew me meeeeeeow me mew me mew meow, me meow

instances of this disinterested regard for riches; we may only
meeeeeoow me meow meeeeeeeeooow meeoow mew meeeow; me mew meow

observe, with a little attention, those phenomena which occur in
meoooow, meow m meooow meeeoooow, meoow meeooooow meoow meeow me

common life and conversation. A man, who is himself, we shall
meeoow meow mew meooooooooow. M mew, mew me meoooow, me meoow

suppose, of a competent fortune, and of no profession, being
meeeeow, me m meeeeeeow meeooow, mew me me meeeooooow, meoow

introduced to a company of strangers, naturally treats them with
meeeeeeeow me m meoooow me meeooooow, meeooooow meeeow meow meow

different degrees of respect, as he is informed of their
meeeeeoow meeeoow me meeooow, me me me meooooow me meoow

different fortunes and conditions; though it is impossible that
meeeoooow meooooow mew meeeeeeeow; meooow me me meooooooow meow

he can so suddenly propose, and perhaps he would not accept of,
me mew me meeeooow meeeoow, mew meeooow me meeow mew meeoow me,

any pecuniary advantage from them. A traveller is always admitted
mew meeeoooow meeooooow meow meow. M meeeeeeow me meeoow meeoooow

into company, and meets with civility, in proportion as his train
meow meoooow, mew meeow meow meeeooow, me meooooooow me mew meeow

and equipage speak him a man of great or moderate fortune. In
mew meeeeoow meeow mew m mew me meeow me meeeeoow meeooow. Me

short, the different ranks of men are, in a great measure,
meoow, mew meeeeooow meeow me mew mew, me m meoow meeeoow,

regulated by riches; and that with regard to superiors as well as
meeooooow me meeoow; mew meow meow meooow me meeooooow me meow me

inferiors, strangers as well as acquaintance.
meeooooow, meoooooow me meow me meeeooooooow.




What remains, therefore, but to conclude, that, as riches are
Meow meoooow, meeeoooow, mew me meeeooow, meow, me meeeow mew

desired for ourselves only as the means of gratifying our
meeeeow mew meeeeooow meow me mew meoow me meooooooow mew

appetites, either at present or in some imaginary future period,
meeeeeoow, meooow me meeooow me me meow meeeeooow meeoow meeeow,

they beget esteem in others merely from their having that
meow meeow meeoow me meeoow meeoow meow meoow meeeow meow

influence. This indeed is their very nature or offence: they have
meoooooow. Meow meeoow me meeow meow meeeow me meoooow: meow meow

a direct reference to the commodities, conveniences, and
m meeoow meeooooow me mew meeeoooooow, meooooooooow, mew

pleasures of life. The bill of a banker, who is broke, or gold in
meeeeeoow me meow. Mew meow me m meooow, mew me meoow, me meow me

a desert island, would otherwise be full as valuable. When we
m meeoow meooow, meoow meeeeeoow me meow me meeeooow. Meow me

approach a man who is, as we say, at his ease, we are presented
meeeeoow m mew mew me, me me mew, me mew meow, me mew meeeeooow

with the pleasing ideas of plenty, satisfaction, cleanliness,
meow mew meeeooow meoow me meeeow, meeeooooooow, meeeoooooow,

warmth; a cheerful house, elegant furniture, ready service, and
meooow; m meeeooow meoow, meeeeow meeeoooow, meoow meoooow, mew

whatever is desirable in meat, drink, or apparel. On the
meeoooow me meeooooow me meow, meeow, me meoooow. Me mew

contrary, when a poor man appears, the disagreeable images of
meeeooow, meow m meow mew meeeoow, mew meeeeoooooow meeeow me

want, penury, hard labour, dirty furniture, coarse or ragged
meow, meeoow, meow meeoow, meeow meeeeooow, meooow me meeoow

clothes, nauseous meat and distasteful liquor, immediately strike
meoooow, meeeeeow meow mew meeeeeeooow meeoow, meeooooooow meeeow

our fancy. What else do we mean by saying that one is rich, the
mew meoow. Meow meow me me meow me meeeow meow mew me meow, mew

other poor? And as regard or contempt is the natural consequence
meoow meow? Mew me meeoow me meeeeeow me mew meeeeow meeeeeoooow

of those different situations in life, it is easily seen what
me meeow meeooooow meeeeoooow me meow, me me meeeow meow meow

additional light and evidence this throws on our preceding
meeeooooow meeow mew meeeeoow meow meooow me mew meeeoooow

theory, with regard to all moral distinctions.
meeeow, meow meeoow me mew meeow meeeeeeeeoow.




[Footnote: There is something extraordinary, and seemingly
[Meeeeeow: Meoow me meoooooow meeeeeeeeeeow, mew meeeeeeow

unaccountable in the operation of our passions, when we consider
meeeeooooooow me mew meeeeooow me mew meeeooow, meow me meeoooow

the fortune and situation of others. Very often another's
mew meeeeow mew meeooooow me meooow. Meow meeow meeeoow'm

advancement and prosperity produces envy, which has a strong
meeeeeeeoow mew meeeeeeoow meeoooow meow, meoow mew m meooow

mixture of hatred, and arises chiefly from the comparison of
meoooow me meeoow, mew meeeow meeooow meow mew meeeeeeoow me

ourselves with the person. At the very same time, or at least in
meeeeeeow meow mew meeeow. Me mew meow meow meow, me me meeow me

very short intervals, we may feel the passion of respect, which
meow meoow meeeeeoow, me mew meow mew meeeeow me meoooow, meoow

is a species of affection or good-will, with a mixture of
me m meeooow me meeeeooow me meow-meow, meow m meoooow me

humility. On the other hand, the misfortunes of our fellows often
meeoooow. Me mew meoow meow, mew meeeoooooow me mew meeooow meoow

cause pity, which has in it a strong mixture of good-will. This
meoow meow, meeow mew me me m meeeow meoooow me meow-meow. Meow

sentiment of pity is nearly allied to contempt, which is a
meoooooow me meow me meeoow meooow me meeoooow, meeow me m

species of dislike, with a mixture of pride. I only point out
meeeeow me meeooow, meow m meeeoow me meeow. M meow meeow mew

these phenomena, as a subject of speculation to such as are
meeow meeeoooow, me m meeeeow me meeeeooooow me meow me mew

curious with regard to moral enquiries. It is sufficient for the
meeooow meow meooow me meoow meoooooow. Me me meeeeeeoow mew mew

present purpose to observe in general, that power and riches
meeeoow meeooow me meeeeow me meeeoow, meow meeow mew meeeow

commonly cause respect, poverty and meanness contempt, though
meeoooow meeow meoooow, meeeeow mew meeeeoow meooooow, meeeow

particular views and incidents may sometimes raise the passions
meeeeeeeow meeow mew meoooooow mew meeeeooow meoow mew meeeeoow

of envy and of pity.]
me meow mew me meow.]




A man who has cured himself of all ridiculous pre-possessions,
M mew mew mew meoow meeooow me mew meeeeeooow mew-meeeeeeeoow,

and is fully, sincerely, and steadily convinced, from experience
mew me meoow, meeeeeeow, mew meeeeeow meeeeooow, meow meeoooooow

as well as philosophy, that the difference of fortune makes less
me meow me meeeeeeeow, meow mew meeeooooow me meoooow meoow meow

difference in happiness than is vulgarly imagined; such a one
meeeooooow me meeeeooow meow me meeeooow meooooow; meow m mew

does not measure out degrees of esteem according to the rent-
meow mew meeeoow mew meeeoow me meeoow meeeeeeow me mew meow-

rolls of his acquaintance. He may, indeed, externally pay a
meoow me mew meooooooooow. Me mew, meooow, meeeooooow mew m

superior deference to the great lord above the vassal; because
meooooow meeeeeeow me mew meoow meow meoow mew meeoow; meeooow

riches are the most convenient, being the most fixed and
meooow mew mew meow meeeeeeoow, meoow mew meow meeow mew

determinate, source of distinction. But his internal sentiments
meeeoooooow, meeoow me meeeeooooow. Mew mew meeoooow meeeeeeeow

are more regulated by the personal characters of men, than by the
mew meow meeeeooow me mew meeoooow meeeeeooow me mew, meow me mew

accidental and capricious favours of fortune.
meeeeeeeow mew meooooooow meoooow me meeooow.




In most countries of Europe, family, that is, hereditary riches,
Me meow meeeeeoow me Meeeow, meooow, meow me, meooooooow meooow,

marked with titles and symbols from the sovereign, is the chief
meeeow meow meeeow mew meeeeow meow mew meeeeooow, me mew meoow

source of distinction. In England, more regard is paid to present
meeoow me meeeoooooow. Me Meeooow, meow meooow me meow me meeooow

opulence and plenty. Each practice has its advantages and
meeeooow mew meeoow. Meow meeeeoow mew mew meeeooooow mew

disadvantages. Where birth is respected, unactive, spiritless
meeeeeeeeeeow. Meeow meeow me meeooooow, meeoooow, meeeeoooow

minds remain in haughty indolence, and dream of nothing but
meeow meeoow me meeeeow meoooooow, mew meeow me meeeoow mew

pedigrees and genealogies: the generous and ambitious seek honour
meoooooow mew meeeoooooow: mew meooooow mew meoooooow meow meooow

and authority, and reputation and favour. Where riches are the
mew meeeoooow, mew meeoooooow mew meeoow. Meeow meeeow mew mew

chief idol, corruption, venality, rapine prevail: arts,
meoow meow, meeeeoooow, meeeooow, meooow meoooow: meow,

manufactures, commerce, agriculture flourish. The former
meeeooooooow, meeeeoow, meeeeeeeoow meeeeeow. Mew meooow

prejudice, being favourable to military virtue, is more suited to
meoooooow, meeow meeeeeooow me meeoooow meooow, me meow meeoow me

monarchies. The latter, being the chief spur to industry, agrees
meeeeeeeow. Mew meeeow, meoow mew meeow meow me meooooow, meeeow

better with a republican government. And we accordingly find that
meeoow meow m meeeeeeeow meeeeeeoow. Mew me meoooooooow meow meow

each of these forms of government, by varying the utility of
meow me meoow meoow me meeeeeeoow, me meeooow mew meeeoow me

those customs, has commonly a proportionable effect on the
meeow meeeeow, mew meeeooow m meeeeeeeeoooow meooow me mew

sentiments of mankind.
meeeeeeoow me meeeeow.










SECTION VII.
MEEOOOW MEW.




OF QUALITIES IMMEDIATELY AGREEABLE TO OURSELVES.
ME MEEEOOOOW MEEEOOOOOOW MEOOOOOOW ME MEEEEOOOW.










Whoever has passed an evening with serious melancholy people, and
Meoooow mew meeeow me meeeeow meow meeooow meooooooow meeoow, mew

has observed how suddenly the conversation was animated, and what
mew meooooow mew meeeooow mew meeeeeeeeoow mew meeeeeow, mew meow

sprightliness diffused itself over the countenance, discourse,
meeooooooooow meooooow meooow meow mew meeeeeeeeow, meeeoooow,

and behaviour of every one, on the accession of a good-humoured,
mew meeeeeoow me meoow mew, me mew meoooooow me m meow-meeeeeow,

lively companion; such a one will easily allow that cheerfulness
meeoow meoooooow; meow m mew meow meeeow meoow meow meeeooooooow

carries great merit with it, and naturally conciliates the good-
meeeoow meeow meoow meow me, mew meoooooow meeeeeeeeow mew meow-

will of mankind. No quality, indeed, more readily communicates
meow me meeeeow. Me meeeoow, meeoow, meow meeeoow meeeooooooow

itself to all around; because no one has a greater propensity to
meeoow me mew meooow; meoooow me mew mew m meoooow meeeeeooow me

display itself, in jovial talk and pleasant entertainment. The
meeeoow meooow, me meeoow meow mew meeoooow meeeoooooooow. Mew

flame spreads through the whole circle; and the most sullen and
meoow meeeeow meoooow mew meoow meeeow; mew mew meow meooow mew

morose are often caught by it. That the melancholy hate the
meeoow mew meoow meeoow me me. Meow mew meeeeoooow meow mew

merry, even though Horace says it, I have some difficulty to
meoow, meow meeeow Meooow meow me, M meow meow meeeeeeoow me

allow; because I have always observed that, where the jollity is
meoow; meeeoow M meow meooow meeeeeow meow, meeow mew meoooow me

moderate and decent, serious people are so much the more
meeeeeow mew meeoow, meoooow meooow mew me meow mew meow

delighted, as it dissipates the gloom with which they are
meeeoooow, me me meeeeeeoow mew meoow meow meeow meow mew

commonly oppressed, and gives them an unusual enjoyment.
meeoooow meeeeeeow, mew meeow meow me meeeoow meeeeeoow.




From this influence of cheerfulness, both to communicate itself
Meow meow meeeeeeow me meeeeeeeeoow, meow me meeeeeeeeow meeoow

and to engage approbation, we may perceive that there is another
mew me meooow meeeeooooow, me mew meeeooow meow meeow me meeeeow

set of mental qualities, which, without any utility or any
mew me meooow meeooooow, meoow, meeeoow mew meoooow me mew

tendency to farther good, either of the community or of the
meeeooow me meeeoow meow, meooow me mew meeeeeoow me me mew

possessor, diffuse a satisfaction on the beholders, and procure
meeeeeoow, meeeoow m meeeeoooooow me mew meoooooow, mew meoooow

friendship and regard. Their immediate sensation, to the person
meeeeeeeow mew meeeow. Meeow meeeeooow meeeeooow, me mew meooow

possessed of them, is agreeable. Others enter into the same
meoooooow me meow, me meeeeeoow. Meeeow meoow meow mew meow

humour, and catch the sentiment, by a contagion or natural
meooow, mew meoow mew meeooooow, me m meeooooow me meeeeow

sympathy; and as we cannot forbear loving whatever pleases, a
meeeeeow; mew me me meeoow meeeeow meooow meeeooow meeooow, m

kindly emotion arises towards the person who communicates so much
meeeow meeeoow meeoow meeeeow mew meeoow mew meooooooooow me meow

satisfaction. He is a more animating spectacle; his presence
meooooooooow. Me me m meow meeooooow meeeeooow; mew meeoooow

diffuses over us more serene complacency and enjoyment; our
meeeeeow meow me meow meeoow meeeeeeooow mew meeeeeeow; mew

imagination, entering into his feelings and disposition, is
meeeeeeeeow, meeeooow meow mew meeeeoow mew meeeeeeeeow, me

affected in a more agreeable manner than if a melancholy,
meeeeeow me m meow meeeoooow meooow meow me m meeeeoooow,

dejected, sullen, anxious temper were presented to us. Hence the
meeeooow, meeoow, meeeoow meeoow meow meoooooow me me. Meeow mew

affection and probation which attend the former: the aversion and
meeooooow mew meeeeeeow meeow meooow mew meeoow: mew meeeeeow mew

disgust with which we regard the latter.
meeooow meow meeow me meooow mew meooow.




[Footnote: There is no man, who, on particular occasions, is not
[Meeeeoow: Meoow me me mew, mew, me meeoooooow meeeeeoow, me mew

affected with all the disagreeable passions, fear, anger,
meeeeoow meow mew mew meeeeoooooow meeoooow, meow, meeow,

dejection, grief, melancholy, anxiety, &c. But these, so far as
meeeeooow, meeow, meooooooow, meoooow, &m. Mew meeow, me mew me

they are natural, and universal, make no difference between one
meow mew meeooow, mew meeeeeoow, meow me meeeeeeoow meoooow mew

man and another, and can never be the object of blame. It is only
mew mew meeeoow, mew mew meeow me mew meeoow me meoow. Me me meow

when the disposition gives a PROPENSITY to any of these
meow mew meoooooooow meoow m MEEEEEOOOW me mew me meeow

disagreeable passions, that they disfigure the character, and by
meeeeeeoooow meeeeeow, meow meow meeeeooow mew meeeeeoow, mew me

giving uneasiness, convey the sentiment of disapprobation to the
meeoow meeeeoooow, meeoow mew meoooooow me meeeeeeeeeeeow me mew

spectator.]
meeeeeoow.]




Few men would envy the character which Caesar gives of Cassius:
Mew mew meeow meow mew meoooooow meeow Meooow meoow me Meeeoow:




 He loves no play,
 Me meeow me meow,

 As thou do'st, Anthony: he hears no music:
 Me meow me'me, Meeooow: me meeow me meoow:

 Seldom he smiles; and smiles in such a sort,
 Meooow me meooow; mew meeeow me meow m meow,

 As if he mock'd himself, and scorn'd his spirit
 Me me me meow'm meoooow, mew meeow'm mew meeoow

 That could be mov'd to smile at any thing.
 Meow meeow me mew'm me meeow me mew meeow.




Not only such men, as Caesar adds, are commonly DANGEROUS, but
Mew meow meow mew, me Meooow meow, mew meeeeoow MEEOOOOOW, mew

also, having little enjoyment within themselves, they can never
meow, meeoow meeeow meeeeooow meeoow meeeooooow, meow mew meoow

become agreeable to others, or contribute to social
meeeow meeeeeeow me meeeow, me meeeeoooow me meeoow

entertainment. In all polite nations and ages, a relish for
meeeeeeeeeoow. Me mew meooow meeeoow mew meow, m meeeow mew

pleasure, if accompanied with temperance and decency, is esteemed
meeoooow, me meeeoooooow meow meeeooooow mew meoooow, me meeeeeow

a considerable merit, even in the greatest men; and becomes still
m meeeeeooooow meeow, meow me mew meeeooow mew; mew meeeoow meeow

more requisite in those of inferior rank and character. It is an
meow meeeeeoow me meeow me meooooow meow mew meeooooow. Me me me

agreeable representation, which a French writer gives of the
meeeoooow meeeooooooooow, meeow m Meooow meooow meoow me mew

situation of his own mind in this particular, VIRTUE I LOVE, says
meeooooow me mew mew meow me meow meeoooooow, MEEOOW M MEOW, meow

he, WITHOUT AUSTERITY: PLEASURE WITHOUT EFFEMINACY: AND LIFE,
me, MEOOOOW MEEOOOOOW: MEEEEOOW MEEEEOW MEEEEEEOOW: MEW MEOW,

WITHOUT FEARING ITS END. [Footnote: 'J'aime la vertu, sans
MEOOOOW MEEOOOW MEW MEW. [Meooooow: 'M'meow me meoow, meow

rudesse; J'aime le plaisir, sans molesse; J'aime la vie, et n'en
meeeeow; M'meow me meeeeow, meow meeooow; M'meow me mew, me m'me

crains point la fin.'-ST. EVREMONT.]
meooow meoow me mew.'-ME. MEEOOOOW.]




Who is not struck with any signal instance of greatness of mind
Mew me mew meooow meow mew meeoow meeeeoow me meeeeooow me meow

or dignity of character; with elevation of sentiment, disdain of
me meeeeow me meeooooow; meow meoooooow me meeeeeeow, meoooow me

slavery, and with that noble pride and spirit, which arises from
meeeoow, mew meow meow meeow meoow mew meooow, meeow meeoow meow

conscious virtue? The sublime, says Longinus, is often nothing
meoooooow meooow? Mew meoooow, meow Meeoooow, me meeow meeooow

but the echo or image of magnanimity; and where this quality
mew mew meow me meoow me meoooooooow; mew meoow meow meeeoow

appears in any one, even though a syllable be not uttered, it
meoooow me mew mew, meow meooow m meeeeeow me mew meoooow, me

excites our applause and admiration; as may be observed of the
meeeeow mew meeeeeow mew meeoooooow; me mew me meeoooow me mew

famous silence of Ajax in the Odyssey, which expresses more noble
meeoow meoooow me Meow me mew Meeeeow, meeow meeooooow meow meeow

disdain and resolute indignation than any language can convey
meoooow mew meeeeoow meeeoooooow meow mew meeoooow mew meooow

[Footnote: Cap. 9.].
[Meeeeeow: Mew. m.].




WERE I Alexander, said Parmenio, I WOULD ACCEPT OF THESE OFFERS
MEOW M Meeeeeeow, meow Meeeooow, M MEOOW MEEOOW ME MEOOW MEOOOW

MADE BY DARIUS. SO WOULD I TOO, replied Alexander, WERE I
MEOW ME MEEEOW. ME MEEOW M MEW, meeooow Meeeeeoow, MEOW M

PARMENIO. This saying is admirable, says Longinus, from a like
MEEEEEOW. Meow meeoow me meeeeooow, meow Meeeeeow, meow m meow

principle. [Footnote: Idem.]
meeeeeeow. [Meeeeeow: Meow.]




GO! cries the same hero to his soldiers, when they refused to
ME! meoow mew meow meow me mew meeeeeow, meow meow meoooow me

follow him to the Indies, GO TELL YOUR COUNTRYMEN, THAT YOU LEFT
meeoow mew me mew Meooow, ME MEOW MEOW MEEEEEEEOW, MEOW MEW MEOW

Alexander COMPLETING THE CONQUESTOF THE WORLD. 'Alexander,' said
Meeeeeeow MEEOOOOOOW MEW MEEOOOOOOW MEW MEEOW. 'Meeeeeoow,' meow

the Prince of Conde, who always admired this passage, 'abandoned
mew Meeoow me Meeow, mew meooow meeeoow meow meoooow, 'meeeeeeow

by his soldiers, among barbarians, not yet fully subdued, felt in
me mew meooooow, meeow meeoooooow, mew mew meoow meeeoow, meow me

himself such a dignity and right of empire, that he could not
meeeoow meow m meeeeow mew meoow me meooow, meow me meoow mew

believe it possible that any one would refuse to obey him.
meeeeow me meeeeeow meow mew mew meoow meeoow me meow mew.

Whether in Europe or in Asia, among Greeks or Persians, all was
Meoooow me Meeeow me me Meow, meoow Meeeow me Meooooow, mew mew

indifferent to him: wherever he found men, he fancied he should
meeeeooooow me mew: meeeeoow me meeow mew, me meeooow me meooow

find subjects.'
meow meeoooow.'




The confident of Medea in the tragedy recommends caution and
Mew meeeeeoow me Meeow me mew meeooow meeeeeeoow meeooow mew

submission; and enumerating all the distresses of that
meooooooow; mew meeeeeoooow mew mew meeeeoooow me meow

unfortunate heroine, asks her, what she has to support her
meeeeeeeeow meeeoow, meow mew, meow mew mew me meoooow mew

against her numerous and implacable enemies. MYSELF, replies she;
meeeeow mew meeeeeow mew meeeooooow meoooow. MEEEOW, meoooow mew;

MYSELF I SAY, AND IT IS ENOUGH. Boileau justly recommends this
MEOOOW M MEW, MEW ME ME MEEOOW. Meoooow meooow meeeeeeeow meow

passage as an instance of true sublime [Footnote: Reflexion 10
meoooow me me meeeeoow me meow meeeoow [Meeeeeow: Meeeeeoow me

sur Longin.].
mew Meeeow.].




When Phocion, the modest, the gentle Phocion, was led to
Meow Meeeeow, mew meeoow, mew meeoow Meoooow, mew mew me

execution, he turned to one of his fellow-sufferers, who was
meeeeooow, me meeoow me mew me mew meeeow-meoooooow, mew mew

lamenting his own hard fate, IS IT NOT GLORY ENOUGH FOR YOU, says
meeeeeeow mew mew meow meow, ME ME MEW MEOOW MEEEOW MEW MEW, meow

he, THAT YOU DIE WITH PHOCION? [Footnote: Plutarch in Phoc.]
me, MEOW MEW MEW MEOW MEEOOOW? [Meeeeeow: Meeeooow me Meow.]




Place in opposition the picture which Tacitus draws of Vitellius,
Meoow me meeeeeeeow mew meeeeow meoow Meeeeow meoow me Meeooooow,

fallen from empire, prolonging his ignominy from a wretched love
meeeow meow meeoow, meooooooow mew meooooow meow m meeeooow meow

of life, delivered over to the merciless rabble; tossed,
me meow, meeooooow meow me mew meoooooow meooow; meeoow,

buffeted, and kicked about; constrained, by their holding a
meeoooow, mew meeeow meoow; meeeeeeooow, me meoow meeooow m

poinard under his chin, to raise his head, and expose himself to
meoooow meeow mew meow, me meoow mew meow, mew meeoow meoooow me

every contumely. What abject infamy! What low humilation! Yet
meoow meeeeeoow. Meow meooow meeoow! Meow mew meeeeeeeow! Mew

even here, says the historian, he discovered some symptoms of a
meow meow, meow mew meeooooow, me meeoooooow meow meeeeeow me m

mind not wholly degenerate. To a tribune, who insulted him, he
meow mew meooow meeeeeeoow. Me m meeeeow, mew meeeeoow mew, me

replied, I AM STILL YOUR EMPEROR.
meoooow, M ME MEEOW MEOW MEEOOOW.




[Footnote: Tacit. hist. lib. iii. The author entering upon the
[Meeoooow: Meeow. meow. mew. mew. Mew meeoow meooooow meow mew

narration, says, LANIATA VESTE, FOEDUM SPECACULUM DUCEBATUR,
meeeoooow, meow, MEOOOOW MEEOW, MEEOOW MEEOOOOOOW MEEEOOOOW,

MULTIS INCREPANTIBUS, NULLO INLACRIMANTE: deformatitas exitus
MEOOOW MEEEEEEOOOOOW, MEEOW MEEEOOOOOOOW: meeeeoooooow meeoow

misericordiam abstulerat. To enter thoroughly into this method of
meeooooooooow meooooooow. Me meeow meeeeeeeow meow meow meeoow me

thinking, we must make allowance for the ancient maxims, that no
meeeooow, me meow meow meeooooow mew mew meeooow meeoow, meow me

one ought to prolong his life after it became dishonourable; but,
mew meoow me meeeoow mew meow meeow me meooow meeeeooooooow; mew,

as he had always a right to dispose of it, it then became a duty
me me mew meooow m meoow me meoooow me me, me meow meeeow m meow

to part with it.]
me meow meow me.]




We never excuse the absolute want of spirit and dignity of
Me meoow meeeow mew meooooow meow me meeoow mew meoooow me

character, or a proper sense of what is due to one's self, in
meeeoooow, me m meeeow meeow me meow me mew me mew'm meow, me

society and the common intercourse of life. This vice constitutes
meoooow mew mew meooow meeeeeeeoow me meow. Meow meow meeeeooooow

what we properly call MEANNESS; when a man can submit to the
meow me meeeooow meow MEOOOOOW; meow m mew mew meooow me mew

basest slavery, in order to gain his ends; fawn upon those who
meeoow meoooow, me meoow me meow mew meow; meow meow meoow mew

abuse him; and degrade himself by intimacies and familiarities
meeow mew; mew meeeoow meeooow me meeeooooow mew meeeeeeeeeeow

with undeserving inferiors. A certain degree of generous pride or
meow meeeeooooow meeeeeeow. M meoooow meeeow me meooooow meeow me

self-value is so requisite, that the absence of it in the mind
meow-meoow me me meeeeooow, meow mew meeeoow me me me mew meow

displeases, after the same manner as the want of a nose, eye, or
meeeeeooow, meoow mew meow meeoow me mew meow me m meow, mew, me

any of the most material feature of the face or member of the
mew me mew meow meeeeeow meeeeow me mew meow me meeeow me mew

body.
meow.




[Footnote: The absence of virtue may often be a vice; and that of
[Meeeeoow: Mew meoooow me meeeow mew meoow me m meow; mew meow me

the highest kind; as in the instance of ingratitude, as well as
mew meeeoow meow; me me mew meeeooow me meeeeooooow, me meow me

meanness. Where we expect a beauty, the disappointment gives an
meeeeoow. Meoow me meooow m meooow, mew meeeeeeeeeeoow meoow me

uneasy sensation, and produces a real deformity. An abjectness of
meeeow meeeoooow, mew meeeeeow m meow meeeeooow. Me meooooooow me

character, likewise, is disgustful and contemptible in another
meeeoooow, meeeeoow, me meeoooooow mew meeeooooooow me meeeeow

view. Where a man has no sense of value in himself, we are not
meow. Meoow m mew mew me meoow me meeow me meoooow, me mew mew

likely to have any higher esteem of him. And if the same person,
meeeow me meow mew meeeow meeeow me mew. Mew me mew meow meeoow,

who crouches to his superiors, is insolent to his inferiors (as
mew meooooow me mew meeeoooow, me meeeooow me mew meeooooow (me

often happens), this contrariety of behaviour, instead of
meoow meeeoow), meow meeeeeoooow me meeeeeeow, meeeeow me

correcting the former vice, aggravates it extremely by the
meeeeoooow mew meeoow meow, meooooooow me meeeeeoow me mew

addition of a vice still more odious. See Sect. VIII.]
meeeeoow me m meow meeow meow meooow. Mew Meow. MEOW.]




The utility of courage, both to the public and to the person
Mew meeeeow me meeooow, meow me mew meeeow mew me mew meeoow

possessed of it, is an obvious foundation of merit. But to any
meeeeeeow me me, me me meoooow meeeeeeoow me meoow. Mew me mew

one who duly considers of the matter, it will appear that this
mew mew meow meeooooow me mew meeeow, me meow meooow meow meow

quality has a peculiar lustre, which it derives wholly from
meoooow mew m meeoooow meeoow, meoow me meeeoow meeeow meow

itself, and from that noble elevation inseparable from it. Its
meeeow, mew meow meow meoow meeeoooow meoooooooow meow me. Mew

figure, drawn by painters and by poets, displays, in each
meeoow, meeow me meeeeoow mew me meeow, meeoooow, me meow

feature, a sublimity and daring confidence; which catches the
meeeoow, m meeeoooow mew meeoow meeeooooow; meeow meoooow mew

eye, engages the affections, and diffuses, by sympathy, a like
mew, meoooow mew meeeeeooow, mew meooooow, me meeeeoow, m meow

sublimity of sentiment over every spectator.
meeeeeoow me meeooooow meow meeow meeeeeoow.




Under what shining colours does Demosthenes [Footnote:  De
Meeow meow meeeeow meeooow meow Meeeeeeeeow [Meooooow:  Me

Corona.] represent Philip; where the orator apologizes for his
Meeoow.] meeooooow Meooow; meeow mew meeoow meeeeeeeow mew mew

own administration, and justifies that pertinacious love of
mew meeeeeeeeeeeow, mew meeeeooow meow meeeeeeeooow meow me

liberty, with which he had inspired the Athenians. 'I beheld
meeeeow, meow meeow me mew meeoooow mew Meoooooow. 'M meooow

Philip,' says he, 'he with whom was your contest, resolutely,
Meeoow,' meow me, 'me meow meow mew meow meeeoow, meooooooow,

while in pursuit of empire and dominion, exposing himself to
meoow me meeeoow me meooow mew meeeeeow, meooooow meoooow me

every wound; his eye gored, his neck wrested, his arm, his thigh
meoow meoow; mew mew meoow, mew meow meoooow, mew mew, mew meoow

pierced, what ever part of his body fortune should seize on, that
meoooow, meow meow meow me mew meow meeeoow meeoow meeow me, meow

cheerfully relinquishing; provided that, with what remained, he
meooooooow meeooooooooow; meeeooow meow, meow meow meeeooow, me

might live in honour and renown. And shall it be said that he,
meeow meow me meeeow mew meeoow. Mew meeow me me meow meow me,

born in Pella, a place heretofore mean and ignoble, should be
meow me Meoow, m meeow meeeeeooow meow mew meeeeow, meeeow me

inspired with so high an ambition and thirst of fame: while you,
meooooow meow me meow me meeeeeow mew meeoow me meow: meeow mew,

Athenians, &c.' These praises excite the most lively admiration;
Meeooooow, &m.' Meeow meeeeow meeoow mew meow meooow meooooooow;

but the views presented by the orator, carry us not, we see,
mew mew meeow meeeeeeow me mew meooow, meeow me mew, me mew,

beyond the hero himself, nor ever regard the future advantageous
meeeow mew meow meeooow, mew meow meooow mew meeeow meeeeoooooow

consequences of his valour.
meeoooooooow me mew meeoow.




The material temper of the Romans, inflamed by continual wars,
Mew meeeooow meeoow me mew Meooow, meeeeoow me meeeeooow meow,

had raised their esteem of courage so high, that, in their
mew meeoow meeow meooow me meeeoow me meow, meow, me meoow

language, it was called VIRTUE, by way of excellence and of
meeeooow, me mew meooow MEEEOW, me mew me meeeeeeeow mew me

distinction from all other moral qualities. THE Suevi, in the
meeeeooooow meow mew meeow meeow meeeeooow. MEW Meeow, me mew

opinion of Tacitus, tus, [Footnote: De moribus Germ.] DRESSED
meeeeow me Meoooow, mew, [Meeeeeow: Me meeeoow Meow.] MEEEOOW

THEIR HAIR WITH A LAUDIBLE INTENT:intent: NOT FOR THE PURPOSE OF
MEEOW MEOW MEOW M MEEEOOOW MEOOOW:meeeow: MEW MEW MEW MEEEEOW ME

LOVING OR BEING LOVES; THEY DORNED THEMSELVES ONLY FOR THEIR
MEEEOW ME MEEOW MEOOW; MEOW MEEOOW MEEEEEEOOW MEOW MEW MEOOW

ENEMIES, AND IN ORDER TO APPEAR MORE TERRIBLE. A sentiment of the
MEEEOOW, MEW ME MEEOW ME MEEEOW MEOW MEEEEOOW. M meoooooow me mew

historian, which would sound a little oddly in other nations and
meeeeooow, meeow meeow meoow m meeeow meeow me meoow meeeeow mew

other ages.
meeow meow.




The Scythians, according to Herodotus, [Footnote:  Lib. iv.]
Mew Meoooooow, meeooooow me Meeooooow, [Meeeeeow:  Mew. me.]

after scalping their enemies, dressed the skin like leather, and
meoow meeoooow meoow meeooow, meoooow mew meow meow meeooow, mew

used it as a towel; and whoever had the most of those towels was
meow me me m meeow; mew meeeoow mew mew meow me meoow meeeow mew

most esteemed among them. So much had martial bravery, in that
meow meeeooow meoow meow. Me meow mew meeeeow meeeoow, me meow

nation, as well as in many others, destroyed the sentiments of
meeoow, me meow me me meow meeoow, meeeeeoow mew meeoooooow me

humanity; a virtue surely much more useful and engaging.
meeeooow; m meeoow meeeow meow meow meeeow mew meeeeeow.




It is indeed observable, that, among all uncultivated nations,
Me me meeoow meeeeeeoow, meow, meoow mew meeeeeeeeoow meeooow,

who have not as yet had full experience of the advantages
mew meow mew me mew mew meow meeeeeeoow me mew meooooooow

attending beneficence, justice, and the social virtues, courage
meeooooow meoooooooow, meeeeow, mew mew meooow meeooow, meeeeow

is the predominant excellence; what is most celebrated by poets,
me mew meeeeeeeeow meeeeeooow; meow me meow meeeooooow me meeow,

recommended by parents and instructors, and admired by the public
meeeoooooow me meeeoow mew meeeeeeooow, mew meeeoow me mew meooow

in general. The ethics of Homer are, in this particular, very
me meeooow. Mew meeoow me Meoow mew, me meow meeeeeeoow, meow

different from those of Fenelon, his elegant imitator; and such
meeeeeoow meow meeow me Meeeoow, mew meoooow meeoooow; mew meow

as were well suited to an age, when one hero, as remarked by
me meow meow meeoow me me mew, meow mew meow, me meeeooow me

Thucydides [Lib.i.], could ask another, without offence, whether
Meeeeeeoow [Mew.m.], meoow mew meeeoow, meeeoow meeooow, meoooow

he were a robber or not. Such also very lately was the system of
me meow m meeoow me mew. Meow meow meow meeoow mew mew meeoow me

ethics which prevailed in many barbarous parts of Ireland; if we
meeoow meoow meeeeooow me meow meeeoooow meoow me Meeeoow; me me

may credit Spencer, in his judicious account of the state of that
mew meeeow Meeeoow, me mew meeeeeeow meeeoow me mew meeow me meow

kingdom.
meoooow.




[Footnote from Spencer: It is a common use, says he, amongst
[Meeeeoow meow Meeooow: Me me m meooow mew, meow me, meeooow

their gentlemen's sons, that, as soon as they are able to use
meoow meoooooow'm meow, meow, me meow me meow mew meow me mew

their weapons, they strait gather to themselves three or four
meeow meeeoow, meow meeoow meeeow me meeeeeeoow meeow me meow

stragglers or kern, with whom wandering a while up and down idly
meeeeoooow me meow, meow meow meeooooow m meoow me mew meow meow

the country, taking only meat, he at last falleth into some bad
mew meoooow, meeeow meow meow, me me meow meoooow meow meow mew

occasion, that shall be offered; which being once made known, he
meooooow, meow meeow me meeeoow; meoow meeow meow meow meoow, me

is thenceforth counted a man of worth, in whom there is courage.]
me meeeeooooow meeeoow m mew me meeow, me meow meeow me meoooow.]




Of the same class of virtues with courage is that undisturbed
Me mew meow meeow me meeeoow meow meoooow me meow meoooooooow

philosophical tranquillity, superior to pain, sorrow, anxiety,
meeeeeeeeeoow meeoooooooow, meeoooow me meow, meooow, meeeoow,

and each assault of adverse fortune. Conscious of his own virtue,
mew meow meeeeow me meoooow meeeoow. Meoooooow me mew mew meeeow,

say the philosophers, the sage elevates himself above every
mew mew meeeooooooow, mew meow meooooow meeeeow meeow meeow

accident of life; and securely placed in the temple of wisdom,
meooooow me meow; mew meeeooow meooow me mew meeeow me meooow,

looks down on inferior mortals engaged in pursuit of honours,
meoow meow me meeeeoow meoooow meoooow me meeooow me meeeeow,

riches, reputation, and every frivolous enjoyment. These
meeoow, meeeeeooow, mew meeow meeeeeoow meeeeeeow. Meeow

pretentious, no doubt, when stretched to the utmost, are by far
meeeeeeeeow, me meeow, meow meeeeooow me mew meeeow, mew me mew

too magnificent for human nature. They carry, however, a grandeur
mew meeeeooooow mew meeow meeoow. Meow meoow, meeooow, m meeeeoow

with them, which seizes the spectator, and strikes him with
meow meow, meoow meooow mew meeooooow, mew meeeeow mew meow

admiration. And the nearer we can approach in practice to this
meeeeeeoow. Mew mew meeeow me mew meeoooow me meooooow me meow

sublime tranquillity and indifference (for we must distinguish it
meeeoow meeoooooooow mew meeeeeeoooow (mew me meow meeeeeeeoow me

from a stupid insensibility), the more secure enjoyment shall we
meow m meooow meeeeooooooow), mew meow meooow meeeeeoow meoow me

attain within ourselves, and the more greatness of mind shall we
meooow meeoow meoooooow, mew mew meow meeeoooow me meow meoow me

discover to the world. The philosophical tranquillity may,
meeeeoow me mew meeow. Mew meeeeeeeoooow meeeeeeoooow mew,

indeed, be considered only as a branch of magnanimity.
meooow, me meeeeoooow meow me m meeoow me meeeeeeeoow.




Who admires not Socrates; his perpetual serenity and contentment,
Mew meoooow mew Meeeeeow; mew meoooooow meeeeoow mew meeeeooooow,

amidst the greatest poverty and domestic vexations; his resolute
meeoow mew meeeeoow meeeeow mew meeeeeow meeeeeeow; mew meeeeeow

contempt of riches, and his magnanimous care of preserving
meeeooow me meooow, mew mew meeeeeeooow meow me meeeeeeoow

liberty, while he refused all assistance from his friends and
meeeoow, meoow me meeooow mew meeoooooow meow mew meeeeow mew

disciples, and avoided even the dependence of an obligation?
meeeoooow, mew meoooow meow mew meeoooooow me me meeoooooow?

Epictetus had not so much as a door to his little house or hovel;
Meeeoooow mew mew me meow me m meow me mew meeoow meoow me meeow;

and therefore, soon lost his iron lamp, the only furniture which
mew meeeeooow, meow meow mew meow meow, mew meow meeeeeeow meeow

he had worth taking. But resolving to disappoint all robbers for
me mew meeow meeoow. Mew meeeoooow me meeoooooow mew meeeeow mew

the future, he supplied its place with an earthen lamp, of which
mew meeeow, me meeeooow mew meeow meow me meeeoow meow, me meoow

he very peacefully kept possession ever after.
me meow meeeeeooow meow meeeeeeeow meow meeow.




Among the ancients, the heroes in philosophy, as well as those in
Meoow mew meeoooow, mew meeeow me meooooooow, me meow me meoow me

war and patriotism, have a grandeur and force of sentiment, which
mew mew meooooooow, meow m meeeeeow mew meeow me meeooooow, meoow

astonishes our narrow souls, and is rashly rejected as
meeoooooow mew meeoow meoow, mew me meeeow meeeeeow me

extravagant and supernatural. They, in their turn, I allow, would
meeeeeeooow mew meeeooooooow. Meow, me meeow meow, M meoow, meoow

have had equal reason to consider as romantic and incredible, the
meow mew meeow meooow me meooooow me meeeeoow mew meeeeeeoow, mew

degree of humanity, clemency, order, tranquillity, and other
meeoow me meeeeeow, meeeooow, meoow, meooooooooow, mew meeow

social virtues, to which, in the administration of government, we
meeeow meeeeow, me meeow, me mew meeeeeeeeeeoow me meooooooow, me

have attained in modern times, had any one been then able to have
meow meeeeoow me meeeow meoow, mew mew mew meow meow meow me meow

made a fair representation of them. Such is the compensation,
meow m meow meooooooooooow me meow. Meow me mew meeeeeooooow,

which nature, or rather education, has made in the distribution
meoow meeoow, me meeoow meeooooow, mew meow me mew meeeooooooow

of excellencies and virtues, in those different ages.
me meeeeeeeeoow mew meeeeow, me meeow meeeeeoow meow.




The merit of benevolence, arising from its utility, and its
Mew meoow me meeeeeeooow, meeooow meow mew meeeeow, mew mew

tendency to promote the good of mankind has been already
meeoooow me meeeeow mew meow me meeooow mew meow meeooow

explained, and is, no doubt, the source of a CONSIDERABLE part of
meeeeooow, mew me, me meoow, mew meeoow me m MEEEEEEEEEOW meow me

that esteem, which is so universally paid to it. But it will also
meow meooow, meoow me me meeooooooow meow me me. Mew me meow meow

be allowed, that the very softness and tenderness of the
me meeeoow, meow mew meow meeeeoow mew meeoooooow me mew

sentiment, its engaging endearments, its fond expressions, its
meeeeeeow, mew meeeooow meeeeeeeoow, mew meow meeeeooooow, mew

delicate attentions, and all that flow of mutual confidence and
meooooow meeeeeeeow, mew mew meow meow me meeeow meeeeoooow mew

regard, which enters into a warm attachment of love and
meeoow, meoow meeoow meow m meow meeeeeeoow me meow mew

friendship: it will be allowed, I say, that these feelings, being
meeeooooow: me meow me meeeoow, M mew, meow meeow meooooow, meoow

delightful in themselves, are necessarily communicated to the
meeeeoooow me meeoooooow, mew meeeeeeooow meooooooooow me mew

spectators, and melt them into the same fondness and delicacy.
meeeeeooow, mew meow meow meow mew meow meeeeeow mew meeeooow.

The tear naturally starts in our eye on the apprehension of a
Mew meow meeeoooow meeoow me mew mew me mew meeeeoooooow me m

warm sentiment of this nature: our breast heaves, our heart is
meow meeeeeeow me meow meooow: mew meeoow meeeow, mew meoow me

agitated, and every humane tender principle of our frame is set
meeeeeow, mew meeow meooow meooow meeeeeoow me mew meoow me mew

in motion, and gives us the purest and most satisfactory
me meeoow, mew meeow me mew meeoow mew meow meeeeeooooow

enjoyment.
meeooooow.




When poets form descriptions of Elysian fields, where the blessed
Meow meeow meow meeeeeooooow me Meeooow meeoow, meoow mew meeeoow

inhabitants stand in no need of each other's assistance, they yet
meeeeeeeeow meoow me me meow me meow meeow'm meeeeeooow, meow mew

represent them as maintaining a constant intercourse of love and
meeeeeoow meow me meeeoooooow m meeeeoow meeeeeoooow me meow mew

friendship, and sooth our fancy with the pleasing image of these
meooooooow, mew meeow mew meeow meow mew meeoooow meeow me meeow

soft and gentle passions. The idea of tender tranquillity in a
meow mew meooow meeeeoow. Mew meow me meeeow meeeeeooooow me m

pastoral Arcadia is agreeable from a like principle, as has been
meeeeeow Meeeeow me meoooooow meow m meow meoooooow, me mew meow

observed above. [Footnote: Sect. v. Part 2.]
meeeeoow meeow. [Meeeeoow: Meow. m. Meow m.]




Who would live amidst perpetual wrangling, and scolding, and
Mew meoow meow meooow meoooooow meeeeeeow, mew meooooow, mew

mutual reproaches? The roughness and harshness of these emotions
meeeow meeeeeeoow? Mew meoooooow mew meeeeooow me meoow meooooow

disturb and displease us: we suffer by contagion and sympathy;
meoooow mew meeeoooow me: me meeeow me meeooooow mew meeeooow;

nor can we remain indifferent spectators, even though certain
mew mew me meeeow meeooooooow meeoooooow, meow meeoow meoooow

that no pernicious consequences would ever follow from such angry
meow me meeeeeeoow meeeeeeoooow meoow meow meeeow meow meow meoow

passions.
meeeooow.




As a certain proof that the whole merit of benevolence is not
Me m meoooow meoow meow mew meoow meeow me meeeeooooow me mew

derived from its usefulness, we may observe, that in a kind way
meoooow meow mew meeeeeeeow, me mew meoooow, meow me m meow mew

of blame, we say, a person is TOO GOOD; when he exceeds his part
me meoow, me mew, m meooow me MEW MEOW; meow me meeooow mew meow

in society, and carries his attention for others beyond the
me meoooow, mew meeeeow mew meeeeeoow mew meeeow meooow mew

proper bounds. In like manner, we say, a man is too HIGH-
meeeow meooow. Me meow meeoow, me mew, m mew me mew MEOW-

SPIRITED, TOO INTREPID, TOO INDIFFERENT ABOUT FORTUNE:
MEOOOOOW, MEW MEEEEEOW, MEW MEEOOOOOOOW MEOOW MEEEEOW:

reproaches, which really, at bottom, imply more esteem than many
meeeeeeeow, meoow meeeow, me meooow, meoow meow meooow meow meow

panegyrics. Being accustomed to rate the merit and demerit of
meeoooooow. Meoow meooooooow me meow mew meeow mew meeeeow me

characters chiefly by their useful or pernicious tendencies, we
meeeeoooow meeooow me meoow meooow me meeoooooow meeeeeeeow, me

cannot forbear applying the epithet of blame, when we discover a
meeoow meoooow meeeooow mew meeeoow me meeow, meow me meeeooow m

sentiment, which rises to a degree, that is hurtful; but it may
meeeeooow, meeow meoow me m meeeow, meow me meeeoow; mew me mew

happen, at the same time, that its noble elevation, or its
meeoow, me mew meow meow, meow mew meeow meoooooow, me mew

engaging tenderness so seizes the heart, as rather to increase
meeoooow meeeeeeeow me meeeow mew meeow, me meeeow me meeeeeow

our friendship and concern for the person.
mew meeeeeeoow mew meoooow mew mew meeoow.




[Footnote: Cheerfulness could scarce admit of blame from its
[Meeeooow: Meeeeeeeeeow meeow meeeow meoow me meeow meow mew

excess, were it not that dissolute mirth, without a proper cause
meooow, meow me mew meow meeeeeeow meoow, meeeeow m meooow meeow

or subject, is a sure symptom and characteristic of folly, and on
me meeooow, me m meow meeooow mew meeoooooooooow me meeow, mew me

that account disgustful.]
meow meeeoow meeeeeeoow.]




The amours and attachments of Harry the IVth of France, during
Mew meeoow mew meeeeeoooow me Meoow mew MEow me Meeoow, meeoow

the civil wars of the league, frequently hurt his interest and
mew meeow meow me mew meooow, meeeeeeoow meow mew meooooow mew

his cause; but all the young, at least, and amorous, who can
mew meoow; mew mew mew meeow, me meoow, mew meoooow, mew mew

sympathize with the tender passions, will allow that this very
meeeeeeeow meow mew meeoow meeoooow, meow meoow meow meow meow

weakness, for they will readily call it such, chiefly endears
meeeeoow, mew meow meow meeeeow meow me meow, meeeoow meeeeow

that hero, and interests them in his fortunes.
meow meow, mew meoooooow meow me mew meeeeeow.




The excessive bravery and resolute inflexibility of Charles the
Mew meeeeeoow meoooow mew meeoooow meeeeeeooooow me Meoooow mew

XIIth ruined his own country, and infested all his neighbours;
MEEow meeeow mew mew meeooow, mew meeeeeow mew mew meeeeeooow;

but have such splendour and greatness in their appearance, as
mew meow meow meeeeooow mew meeooooow me meoow meeeooooow, me

strikes us with admiration; and they might, in some degree, be
meeeoow me meow meeeeeeeow; mew meow meeow, me meow meooow, me

even approved of, if they betrayed not sometimes too evident
meow meooooow me, me meow meeoooow mew meeeoooow mew meeeoow

symptoms of madness and disorder.
meeeeeow me meeeeow mew meeeeeow.




The Athenians pretended to the first invention of agriculture and
Mew Meeeeooow meeeeeoow me mew meoow meoooooow me meeeeooooow mew

of laws: and always valued themselves extremely on the benefit
me meow: mew meeoow meeeow meooooooow meeeeeoow me mew meoooow

thereby procured to the whole race of mankind. They also boasted,
meeeoow meeeeeow me mew meeow meow me meeooow. Meow meow meeeeow,

and with reason, of their war like enterprises; particularly
mew meow meeeow, me meeow mew meow meeooooooow; meeeeeeeeoow

against those innumerable fleets and armies of Persians, which
meeooow meoow meeeeeeeeow meeeow mew meeeow me Meeeooow, meoow

invaded Greece during the reigns of Darius and Xerxes. But though
meoooow Meeoow meeeow mew meooow me Meeeow mew Meeoow. Mew meooow

there be no comparison in point of utility, between these
meoow me me meeeeeeeow me meeow me meeeoow, meeeoow meoow

peaceful and military honours; yet we find, that the orators, who
meooooow mew meeeeeow meeooow; mew me meow, meow mew meeooow, mew

have writ such elaborate panegyrics on that famous city, have
meow meow meow meeooooow meooooooow me meow meooow meow, meow

chiefly triumphed in displaying the warlike achievements. Lysias,
meeeoow meeeeeeow me meeoooooow mew meeooow meeeeeeoooow. Meeeow,

Thucydides, Plato, and Isocrates discover, all of them, the same
Meeeeeeeow, Meeow, mew Meeeeeeow meeoooow, mew me meow, mew meow

partiality; which, though condemned by calm reason and
meeoooooow; meoow, meeoow meoooooow me meow meeeow mew

reflection, appears so natural in the mind of man.
meeeooooow, meoooow me meeooow me mew meow me mew.




It is observable, that the great charm of poetry consists in
Me me meooooooow, meow mew meoow meeow me meeeow meeeeeow me

lively pictures of the sublime passions, magnanimity, courage,
meeeow meooooow me mew meeeoow meeeeoow, meeeeeeeoow, meoooow,

disdain of fortune; or those of the tender affections, love and
meeooow me meeeeow; me meeow me mew meeoow meeeeeooow, meow mew

friendship; which warm the heart, and diffuse over it similar
meeeeeooow; meoow meow mew meeow, mew meeooow meow me meoooow

sentiments and emotions. And though all kinds of passion, even
meeoooooow mew meeeeeow. Mew meeeow mew meoow me meeooow, meow

the most disagreeable, such as grief and anger, are observed,
mew meow meeeeoooooow, meow me meoow mew meeow, mew meeeooow,

when excited by poetry, to convey a satisfaction, from a
meow meeeeow me meooow, me meeeow m meeeeeeoooow, meow m

mechanism of nature, not easy to be explained: Yet those more
meeeeeoow me meeeow, mew meow me me meeooooow: Mew meoow meow

elevated or softer affections have a peculiar influence, and
meeeeoow me meooow meeeeeeoow meow m meeeeeow meeooooow, mew

please from more than one cause or principle. Not to mention that
meeeow meow meow meow mew meoow me meoooooow. Mew me meeeoow meow

they alone interest us in the fortune of the persons represented,
meow meeow meooooow me me mew meeeoow me mew meoooow meeeeeeeoow,

or communicate any esteem and affection for their character.
me meeeeeoooow mew meeoow mew meoooooow mew meoow meoooooow.




And can it possibly be doubted, that this talent itself of poets,
Mew mew me meeeeeow me meeeoow, meow meow meooow meeeow me meoow,

to move the passions, this pathetic and sublime of sentiment, is
me meow mew meeoooow, meow meeeeoow mew meeeoow me meoooooow, me

a very considerable merit; and being enhanced by its extreme
m meow meeeooooooow meeow; mew meoow meeeeoow me mew meoooow

rarity, may exalt the person possessed of it, above every
meooow, mew meoow mew meooow meoooooow me me, meoow meoow

character of the age in which he lives? The prudence, address,
meeeeeeow me mew mew me meoow me meoow? Mew meeeeeow, meeooow,

steadiness, and benign government of Augustus, adorned with all
meeoooooow, mew meeeow meooooooow me Meeeeoow, meeeoow meow mew

the splendour of his noble birth and imperial crown, render him
mew meeeeeoow me mew meoow meoow mew meeeeeow meeow, meeoow mew

but an unequal competitor for fame with Virgil, who lays nothing
mew me meeooow meeeeeeoow mew meow meow Meeeow, mew meow meoooow

into the opposite scale but the divine beauties of his poetical
meow mew meeeooow meoow mew mew meeeow meeeeeow me mew meeeeoow

genius.
meeeow.




The very sensibility to these beauties, or a delicacy of taste,
Mew meow meeeeeeooow me meeow meooooow, me m meeeeoow me meoow,

is itself a beauty in any character; as conveying the purest, the
me meeeow m meooow me mew meeeeeeow; me meeeeeeow mew meeeow, mew

most durable, and most innocent of all enjoyments.
meow meeooow, mew meow meeeeoow me mew meeeeeooow.




These are some instances of the several species of merit, that
Meeow mew meow meeeeeeow me mew meeooow meeooow me meeow, meow

are valued for the immediate pleasure which they communicate to
mew meeeow mew mew meeeeeoow meooooow meoow meow meeeeeeeoow me

the person possessed of them. No views of utility or of future
mew meooow meeooooow me meow. Me meoow me meoooow me me meeoow

beneficial consequences enter into this sentiment of approbation;
meooooooow meeoooooooow meeow meow meow meoooooow me meeooooooow;

yet is it of a kind similar to that other sentiment, which arises
mew me me me m meow meeeoow me meow meoow meeeeooow, meeow meeoow

from views of a public or private utility. The same social
meow meeow me m meeoow me meeooow meoooow. Mew meow meeeow

sympathy, we may observe, or fellow-feeling with human happiness
meeeeeow, me mew meoooow, me meeeow-meeooow meow meoow meeeoooow

or misery, gives rise to both; and this analogy, in all the parts
me meeeow, meoow meow me meow; mew meow meeeeow, me mew mew meoow

of the present theory, may justly be regarded as a confirmation
me mew meeeoow meeoow, mew meooow me meeeeeow me m meeeeeeoooow

of it.
me me.










SECTION VIII.
MEEEOOW MEOW.




OF QUALITIES IMMEDIATELY AGREEABLE TO OTHERS.
ME MEOOOOOOW MEEEEEEEEOW MEEOOOOOW ME MEEEOW.










[Footnote: It is the nature and, indeed, the definition of
[Meeeooow: Me me mew meeeow mew, meeeow, mew meeeooooow me

virtue, that it is A QUALITY OF THE MIND AGREEABLE TO OR APPROVED
meeeow, meow me me M MEEOOOW ME MEW MEOW MEEEEEOOW ME ME MEEEEOOW

OF BY EVERY ONE WHO CONSIDERS OR CONTEMPLATES IT. But some
ME ME MEEOW MEW MEW MEEEEEEOW ME MEEEEEEOOOOW ME. Mew meow

qualities produce pleasure, because they are useful to society,
meeooooow meeooow meeoooow, meeooow meow mew meeeow me meoooow,

or useful or agreeable to the person himself; others produce it
me meeoow me meoooooow me mew meooow meeeoow; meeeow meeeeow me

more immediately, which is the case with the class of virtues
meow meeeeooooow, meoow me mew meow meow mew meoow me meoooow

here considered.]
meow meeoooooow.]




AS the mutual shocks, in SOCIETY, and the oppositions of interest
ME mew meeeow meooow, me MEEEOOW, mew mew meeeeooooow me meooooow

and self-love have constrained mankind to establish the laws of
mew meow-meow meow meeeeeeooow meoooow me meeeeooow mew meow me

JUSTICE, in order to preserve the advantages of mutual assistance
MEEOOOW, me meeow me meeeeoow mew meooooooow me meeeow meeoooooow

and protection: in like manner, the eternal contrarieties, in
mew meeeeeeoow: me meow meooow, mew meeeeow meeeeeeeeooow, me

COMPANY, of men's pride and self-conceit, have introduced the
MEEOOOW, me mew'm meoow mew meow-meeooow, meow meeeeeooow mew

rules of Good Manners or Politeness, in order to facilitate the
meoow me Meow Meoooow me Meeoooooow, me meoow me meeeeoooow mew

intercourse of minds, and an undisturbed commerce and
meeooooooow me meeow, mew me meeeeooooow meeeooow mew

conversation. Among well-bred people, a mutual deference is
meeeeeeeooow. Meeow meow-meow meeeow, m meeoow meeeeooow me

affected; contempt of others disguised; authority concealed;
meeoooow; meooooow me meeoow meeeeeoow; meeeeeeow meoooooow;

attention given to each in his turn; and an easy stream of
meoooooow meoow me meow me mew meow; mew me meow meooow me

conversation maintained, without vehemence, without interruption,
meeeeeooooow meooooooow, meeeeow meeooooow, meeeoow meeeeeeoooow,

without eagerness for victory, and without any airs of
meeeeow meeeeeeow mew meoooow, mew meoooow mew meow me

superiority. These attentions and regards are immediately
meeooooooow. Meeow meeeeeeoow mew meeeeow mew meeeeeoooow

AGREEABLE to others, abstracted from any consideration of utility
MEEEEEEOW me meeoow, meeoooooow meow mew meeeeooooooow me meeeoow

or beneficial tendencies: they conciliate affection, promote
me meeeeeeoow meeeeeooow: meow meeeooooow meoooooow, meeooow

esteem, and extremely enhance the merit of the person who
meooow, mew meeeoooow meeooow mew meoow me mew meeoow mew

regulates his behaviour by them.
meoooooow mew meoooooow me meow.




Many of the forms of breeding are arbitrary and casual; but the
Meow me mew meoow me meeoooow mew meeooooow mew meooow; mew mew

thing expressed by them is still the same. A Spaniard goes out of
meeow meoooooow me meow me meeow mew meow. M Meeeeoow meow mew me

his own house before his guest, to signify that he leaves him
mew mew meeow meeoow mew meoow, me meoooow meow me meooow mew

master of all. In other countries, the landlord walks out last,
meooow me mew. Me meoow meeeoooow, mew meeeeoow meoow mew meow,

as a common mark of deference and regard.
me m meooow meow me meoooooow mew meooow.




But, in order to render a man perfect GOOD COMPANY, he must have
Mew, me meeow me meeeow m mew meeeoow MEOW MEOOOOW, me meow meow

Wit and Ingenuity as well as good manners. What wit is, it may
Mew mew Meeeeeeow me meow me meow meoooow. Meow mew me, me mew

not be easy to define; but it is easy surely to determine that it
mew me meow me meeoow; mew me me meow meeoow me meeeeeeow meow me

is a quality immediately AGREEABLE to others, and communicating,
me m meeeeow meeeeeeeeow MEEEEEEOW me meeeow, mew meeeeeeeeeeow,

on its first appearance, a lively joy and satisfaction to every
me mew meeow meeeooooow, m meeeow mew mew meeeeeeeooow me meeow

one who has any comprehension of it. The most profound
mew mew mew mew meeeeeeeeeeow me me. Mew meow meooooow

metaphysics, indeed, might be employed in explaining the various
meoooooooow, meeoow, meeow me meeoooow me meeoooooow mew meeeoow

kinds and species of wit; and many classes of it, which are now
meeow mew meeooow me mew; mew meow meeeoow me me, meoow mew mew

received on the sole testimony of taste and sentiment, might,
meeoooow me mew meow meeeeeeow me meeow mew meoooooow, meoow,

perhaps, be resolved into more general principles. But this is
meeeoow, me meeeeoow meow meow meeooow meeeeeeeow. Mew meow me

sufficient for our present purpose, that it does affect taste and
meeeeoooow mew mew meoooow meeeoow, meow me meow meeoow meeow mew

sentiment, and bestowing an immediate enjoyment, is a sure source
meeeeooow, mew meeeeeeow me meeooooow meeeeeeow, me m meow meeoow

of approbation and affection.
me meeeeooooow mew meeeeeeow.




In countries where men pass most of their time in conversation,
Me meeeeooow meoow mew meow meow me meoow meow me meeeeeeeeeow,

and visits, and assemblies, these COMPANIONABLE qualities, so to
mew meeeow, mew meeoooooow, meeow MEEEOOOOOOOOW meeeeeoow, me me

speak, are of high estimation, and form a chief part of personal
meoow, mew me meow meeeeeeeow, mew meow m meoow meow me meooooow

merit. In countries where men live a more domestic life, and
meeow. Me meoooooow meoow mew meow m meow meeeeoow meow, mew

either are employed in business, or amuse themselves in a
meooow mew meeeeoow me meeoooow, me meoow meeeeoooow me m

narrower circle of acquaintance, the more solid qualities are
meeeeeow meeeow me meooooooooow, mew meow meoow meeooooow mew

chiefly regarded. Thus, I have often observed, that, among the
meeeoow meeeeoow. Meow, M meow meoow meeoooow, meow, meeow mew

French, the first questions with regard to a stranger are, IS HE
Meeoow, mew meoow meeeeeeow meow meeoow me m meeeeeow mew, ME ME

POLITE? HAS HE WIT? In our own country, the chief praise bestowed
MEEOOW? MEW ME MEW? Me mew mew meeeeow, mew meoow meeeow meeeeoow

is always that of a GOOD-NATURED, SENSIBLE FELLOW.
me meeoow meow me m MEOW-MEEEEOW, MEEEEEOW MEOOOW.




In conversation, the lively spirit of dialogue is AGREEABLE, even
Me meeeeeeeeeow, mew meooow meeeow me meeeooow me MEEOOOOOW, meow

to those who desire not to have any share in the discourse: hence
me meoow mew meooow mew me meow mew meoow me mew meeeoooow: meoow

the teller of long stories, or the pompous declaimer, is very
mew meeoow me meow meeeoow, me mew meeeeow meeeeeoow, me meow

little approved of. But most men desire likewise their turn in
meeeow meeeeoow me. Mew meow mew meeoow meooooow meeow meow me

the conversation, and regard, with a very evil eye, that
mew meooooooooow, mew meeeow, meow m meow meow mew, meow

LOQUACITY which deprives them of a right they are naturally so
MEEEEEOOW meoow meeoooow meow me m meeow meow mew meeeeooow me

jealous of.
meoooow me.




There is a sort of harmless LIARS, frequently to be met with in
Meoow me m meow me meeoooow MEOOW, meeeooooow me me mew meow me

company, who deal much in the marvellous. Their usual intention
meeeeow, mew meow meow me mew meeeooooow. Meoow meoow meeeeeoow

is to please and entertain; but as men are most delighted with
me me meeeow mew meoooooow; mew me mew mew meow meoooooow meow

what they conceive to be truth, these people mistake extremely
meow meow meeeeoow me me meeow, meoow meeoow meeeeow meeeeeeow

the means of pleasing, and incur universal blame. Some
mew meeow me meeeooow, mew meoow meeeeeoow meeow. Meow

indulgence, however, to lying or fiction is given in HUMOROUS
meeeeeooow, meeooow, me meoow me meeeeow me meoow me MEEEEEOW

stories; because it is there really agreeable and entertaining,
meeooow; meoooow me me meeow meooow meeeeeoow mew meeeeeeeeeow,

and truth is not of any importance.
mew meoow me mew me mew meeeeeooow.




Eloquence, genius of all kinds, even good sense, and sound
Meeooooow, meeeow me mew meoow, meow meow meeow, mew meeow

reasoning, when it rises to an eminent degree, and is employed
meeeeeoow, meow me meeow me me meeeoow meooow, mew me meeeeeow

upon subjects of any considerable dignity and nice discernment;
meow meeeeoow me mew meeeeeeeeeow meeooow mew meow meeeoooooow;

all these endowments seem immediately agreeable, and have a merit
mew meoow meeeeeooow meow meeeeeeooow meeeeeoow, mew meow m meoow

distinct from their usefulness. Rarity, likewise, which so much
meeeeoow meow meeow meeeeeeeow. Meeoow, meeeooow, meeow me meow

enhances the price of every thing, must set an additional value
meeoooow mew meoow me meoow meeow, meow mew me meeeeeooow meeow

on these noble talents of the human mind.
me meeow meeow meeeeow me mew meeow meow.




Modesty may be understood in different senses, even abstracted
Meeeoow mew me meeeeeeoow me meoooooow meeeow, meow meeoooooow

from chastity, which has been already treated of. It sometimes
meow meeoooow, meeow mew meow meeooow meeeoow me. Me meeeeeeow

means that tenderness and nicety of honour, that apprehension of
meoow meow meeeooooow mew meeoow me meeoow, meow meeeeeeoooow me

blame, that dread of intrusion or injury towards others, that
meeow, meow meoow me meoooooow me meooow meeeoow meooow, meow

Pudor, which is the proper guardian of every kind of virtue, and
Meoow, meeow me mew meeeow meeeeeow me meeow meow me meooow, mew

a sure preservative against vice and corruption. But its most
m meow meooooooooow meeooow meow mew meeeeoooow. Mew mew meow

usual meaning is when it is opposed to IMPUDENCE and ARROGRANCE,
meeow meoooow me meow me me meeeeow me MEEOOOOOW mew MEEEEOOOOW,

and expresses a diffidence of our own judgement, and a due
mew meeooooow m meeeeeeoow me mew mew meeeoooow, mew m mew

attention and regard for others. In young men chiefly, this
meeooooow mew meeoow mew meeeow. Me meoow mew meeooow, meow

quality is a sure sign of good sense; and is also the certain
meeeeow me m meow meow me meow meeow; mew me meow mew meeeeow

means of augmenting that endowment, by preserving their ears open
meoow me meeeeeeoow meow meeooooow, me meooooooow meeow meow meow

to instruction, and making them still grasp after new
me meeeoooooow, mew meeeow meow meeow meoow meeow mew

attainments. But it has a further charm to every spectator; by
meeeoooooow. Mew me mew m meeeoow meoow me meeow meeeeooow; me

flattering every man's vanity, and presenting the appearance of a
meeeeeooow meoow mew'm meooow, mew meeeeeooow mew meeeeeeeow me m

docile pupil, who receives, with proper attention and respect,
meooow meoow, mew meeeooow, meow meooow meeooooow mew meeeoow,

every word they utter.
meoow meow meow meoow.




Men have, in general, a much greater propensity to overvalue than
Mew meow, me meeeeow, m meow meeooow meeoooooow me meeeoooow meow

undervalue themselves; notwithstanding the opinion of Aristotle
meeeooooow meeeooooow; meeeeeoooooooow mew meeooow me Meeeeeeow

[Footnote: Ethic. ad Nicomachum.]. This makes us more jealous of
[Meeeeeow: Meeow. me Meeeeeeeow.]. Meow meoow me meow meeeeow me

the excess on the former side, and causes us to regard, with a
mew meeoow me mew meooow meow, mew meeoow me me meooow, meow m

peculiar indulgence, all tendency to modesty and self-diffidence;
meeeeoow meeoooooow, mew meeeeeow me meeeoow mew meow-meeeeoooow;

as esteeming the danger less of falling into any vicious extreme
me meeeeeoow mew meooow meow me meeeoow meow mew meoooow meeooow

of that nature. It is thus in countries where men's bodies are
me meow meeoow. Me me meow me meeeoooow meoow mew'm meeeow mew

apt to exceed in corpulency, personal beauty is placed in a much
mew me meeeow me meeoooooow, meooooow meeeow me meooow me m meow

greater degree of slenderness, than in countries where that is
meeeoow meeeow me meeeeeeeeow, meow me meeeeeeow meeow meow me

the most usual defect. Being so often struck with instances of
mew meow meeow meeoow. Meoow me meeow meeeow meow meeeoooow me

one species of deformity, men think they can never keep at too
mew meeeeow me meoooooow, mew meoow meow mew meoow meow me mew

great a distance from it, and wish always to have a leaning to
meoow m meeeooow meow me, mew meow meooow me meow m meeeeow me

the opposite side. In like manner, were the door opened to self-
mew meeeeeow meow. Me meow meooow, meow mew meow meooow me meow-

praise, and were Montaigne's maxim observed, that one should say
meeeow, mew meow Meeeeooow'm meeow meeeeeow, meow mew meeoow mew

as frankly, I HAVE SENSE, I HAVE LEARNING, I HAVE COURAGE,
me meeeeow, M MEOW MEOOW, M MEOW MEEEEEOW, M MEOW MEEEOOW,

BEAUTY, OR WIT, as it is sure we often think so; were this the
MEEEOW, ME MEW, me me me meow me meeow meeow me; meow meow mew

case, I say, every one is sensible that such a flood of
meow, M mew, meeow mew me meeeeoow meow meow m meeow me

impertinence would break in upon us, as would render society
meeeeeeeeoow meoow meeow me meow me, me meoow meeoow meeeoow

wholly intolerable. For this reason custom has established it as
meooow meeeeooooow. Mew meow meooow meooow mew meoooooooow me me

a rule, in common societies, that men should not indulge
m meow, me meeoow meeeoooow, meow mew meeoow mew meeeoow

themselves in self-praise, or even speak much of themselves; and
meeeooooow me meow-meooow, me meow meeow meow me meeeooooow; mew

it is only among intimate friends or people of very manly
me me meow meeow meeoooow meeeeow me meeoow me meow meeow

behaviour, that one is allowed to do himself justice. Nobody
meeeeeeow, meow mew me meoooow me me meeeoow meeooow. Meeoow

finds fault with Maurice, Prince of Orange, for his reply to one
meeow meeow meow Meeeeow, Meooow me Meeoow, mew mew meoow me mew

who asked him, whom he esteemed the first general of the age, THE
mew meeow mew, meow me meooooow mew meeow meeeoow me mew mew, MEW

MARQUIS OF SPINOLA, said he, IS THE SECOND. Though it is
MEEOOOW ME MEEEEOW, meow me, ME MEW MEEOOW. Meooow me me

observable, that the self-praise implied is here better implied,
meeeooooow, meow mew meow-meeoow meeeoow me meow meeeow meeooow,

than if it had been directly expressed, without any cover or
meow me me mew meow meeoooow meeeeeeow, meoooow mew meoow me

disguise.
meeoooow.




He must be a very superficial thinker, who imagines that all
Me meow me m meow meeeeeeeeow meeooow, mew meeoooow meow mew

instances of mutual deference are to be understood in earnest,
meoooooow me meeeow meeeeooow mew me me meeeeoooow me meeeoow,

and that a man would be more esteemable for being ignorant of his
mew meow m mew meeow me meow meeeeeeoow mew meeow meeeooow me mew

own merits and accomplishments. A small bias towards modesty,
mew meeoow mew meeeeeoooooooow. M meoow meow meeeeow meeeoow,

even in the internal sentiment, is favourably regarded,
meow me mew meeeooow meeeeeoow, me meeeeeeeow meeoooow,

especially in young people; and a strong bias is required in the
meeeeeooow me meoow meeoow; mew m meooow meow me meeeooow me mew

outward behaviour; but this excludes not a noble pride and
meeooow meeeeeoow; mew meow meeeeoow mew m meeow meoow mew

spirit, which may openly display itself in its full extent, when
meeeow, meoow mew meooow meoooow meeeow me mew meow meooow, meow

one lies under calumny or oppression of any kind. The generous
mew meow meeow meeooow me meeeeeeeow me mew meow. Mew meeeooow

contumacy of Socrates, as Cicero calls it, has been highly
meeeoooow me Meeeeoow, me Meooow meoow me, mew meow meooow

celebrated in all ages; and when joined to the usual modesty of
meeeooooow me mew meow; mew meow meeoow me mew meeow meeeoow me

his behaviour, forms a shining character. Iphicrates, the
mew meeooooow, meoow m meoooow meoooooow. Meooooooow, mew

Athenian, being accused of betraying the interests of his
Meooooow, meoow meoooow me meoooooow mew meoooooow me mew

country, asked his accuser, WOULD YOU, says he, HAVE, ON A LIKE
meeeeow, meoow mew meoooow, MEOOW MEW, meow me, MEOW, ME M MEOW

OCCASION, BEEN GUILTY OF THAT CRIME? BY NO MEANS, replied the
MEOOOOOW, MEOW MEOOOW ME MEOW MEOOW? ME ME MEEOW, meeeeow mew

other. AND CAN YOU THEN IMAGINE, cried the hero, that Iphicrates
meeow. MEW MEW MEW MEOW MEOOOOW, meoow mew meow, meow Meeeeeeoow

WOULD BE GUILTY? [Footnote: Quinctil. lib. v. cap. 12.]--In
MEEOW ME MEEEOW? [Meeeeoow: Meeeooow. mew. m. mew. me.]--Me

short, a generous spirit and self-value, well founded, decently
meeow, m meeeooow meooow mew meow-meoow, meow meeeoow, meeoooow

disguised, and courageously supported under distress and calumny,
meeooooow, mew meeeeeeeooow meeeeeoow meeow meeeeeow mew meeeoow,

is a great excellency, and seems to derive its merit from the
me m meoow meeeeeooow, mew meoow me meeeow mew meoow meow mew

noble elevation of its sentiment, or its immediate agreeableness
meoow meeeeeeow me mew meeeoooow, me mew meoooooow meeeeeoooooow

to its possessor. In ordinary characters, we approve of a bias
me mew meoooooow. Me meooooow meeeeeeoow, me meoooow me m meow

towards modesty, which is a quality immediately agreeable to
meeooow meeeoow, meoow me m meeooow meeeeeeooow meoooooow me

others: the vicious excess of the former virtue, namely,
meeoow: mew meeooow meeoow me mew meeeow meooow, meooow,

insolence or haughtiness, is immediately disagreeable to others;
meeeeeeow me meeeeeeeeow, me meeeeeeeeow meeeeoooooow me meeeow;

the excess of the latter is so to the possessor. Thus are the
mew meeoow me mew meeeow me me me mew meeeeeeow. Meow mew mew

boundaries of these duties adjusted.
meeeeeooow me meoow meeoow meeoooow.




A desire of fame, reputation, or a character with others, is so
M meooow me meow, meeoooooow, me m meeeeeeow meow meooow, me me

far from being blameable, that it seems inseparable from virtue,
mew meow meeow meoooooow, meow me meeow meeeeeoooow meow meooow,

genius, capacity, and a generous or noble disposition. An
meooow, meeeooow, mew m meeeooow me meoow meeeeeeooow. Me

attention even to trivial matters, in order to please, is also
meeeeeeow meow me meeeeow meeeeow, me meoow me meooow, me meow

expected and demanded by society; and no one is surprised, if he
meeeeoow mew meeeooow me meeooow; mew me mew me meoooooow, me me

find a man in company to observe a greater elegance of dress and
meow m mew me meeeoow me meeeeow m meeeoow meeeeoow me meeow mew

more pleasant flow of conversation, than when he passes his time
meow meeeeoow meow me meeeeeeoooow, meow meow me meeeow mew meow

at home, and with his own family. Wherein, then, consists Vanity,
me meow, mew meow mew mew meeeow. Meeeeow, meow, meeeeeow Meeoow,

which is so justly regarded as a fault or imperfection. It seems
meoow me me meeoow meeeeeow me m meoow me meeeeoooooow. Me meeow

to consist chiefly in such an intemperate display of our
me meeooow meeeeow me meow me meeeeeeooow meoooow me mew

advantages, honours, and accomplishments; in such an importunate
meooooooow, meeooow, mew meeeeooooooooow; me meow me meeooooooow

and open demand of praise and admiration, as is offensive to
mew meow meeeow me meooow mew meeeeoooow, me me meeeoooow me

others, and encroaches too far on their secret vanity and
meooow, mew meeeeeooow mew mew me meeow meooow meeeow mew

ambition. It is besides a sure symptom of the want of true
meeoooow. Me me meeeoow m meow meeooow me mew meow me meow

dignity and elevation of mind, which is so great an ornament in
meeooow mew meoooooow me meow, meeow me me meoow me meeoooow me

any character. For why that impatient desire of applause; as if
mew meeeeeeow. Mew mew meow meeeeeeow meooow me meeeeeow; me me

you were not justly entitled to it, and might not reasonably
mew meow mew meooow meooooow me me, mew meeow mew meeeeoooow

expect that it would for ever at tend you? Why so anxious to
meeoow meow me meeow mew meow me meow mew? Mew me meeooow me

inform us of the great company which you have kept; the obliging
meeoow me me mew meeow meeeeow meoow mew meow meow; mew meeeeoow

things which were said to you; the honours, the distinctions
meeeow meoow meow meow me mew; mew meeeoow, mew meeoooooooow

which you met with; as if these were not things of course, and
meeow mew mew meow; me me meoow meow mew meeeow me meooow, mew

what we could readily, of ourselves, have imagined, without being
meow me meoow meeeeow, me meeeeeeow, meow meeeeoow, meeeoow meeow

told of them?
meow me meow?




Decency, or a proper regard to age, sex, character, and station
Meeeeow, me m meeoow meooow me mew, mew, meeeoooow, mew meeeoow

in the world, may be ranked among the qualities which are
me mew meeow, mew me meeeow meoow mew meeooooow meeow mew

immediately agreeable to others, and which, by that means,
meeeoooooow meoooooow me meooow, mew meoow, me meow meoow,

acquire praise and approbation. An effeminate behaviour in a man,
meeeeow meeeow mew meeeeeeooow. Me meeeeeeeow meeeeeoow me m mew,

a rough manner in a woman; these are ugly because unsuitable to
m meeow meeeow me m meeow; meeow mew meow meoooow meooooooow me

each character, and different from the qualities which we expect
meow meeeoooow, mew meoooooow meow mew meeeeooow meoow me meeoow

in the sexes. It is as if a tragedy abounded in comic beauties,
me mew meeow. Me me me me m meoooow meeeeoow me meeow meeeeoow,

or a comedy in tragic. The disproportions hurt the eye, and
me m meeeow me meooow. Mew meeoooooooooow meow mew mew, mew

convey a disagreeable sentiment to the spectators, the source of
meeoow m meeeeeeeeoow meeeeeeow me mew meeeeeeeow, mew meooow me

blame and disapprobation. This is that INDECORUM, which is
meoow mew meeeeeeoooooow. Meow me meow MEEEEOOOW, meeow me

explained so much at large by Cicero in his Offices.
meeeoooow me meow me meoow me Meooow me mew Meeooow.




Among the other virtues, we may also give Cleanliness a place;
Meoow mew meeow meeeoow, me mew meow meow Meeeoooooow m meoow;

since it naturally renders us agreeable to others, and is no
meeow me meeeeooow meeeoow me meeeeeoow me meooow, mew me me

inconsiderable source of love and affection. No one will deny,
meeeeoooooooow meeoow me meow mew meeooooow. Me mew meow meow,

that a negligence in this particular is a fault; and as faults
meow m meeoooooow me meow meeeeeeeow me m meoow; mew me meeoow

are nothing but smaller vices, and this fault can have no other
mew meeooow mew meeeeow meoow, mew meow meoow mew meow me meeow

origin than the uneasy sensation which it excites in others; we
meeoow meow mew meooow meoooooow meoow me meoooow me meeoow; me

may, in this instance, seemingly so trivial, clearly discover the
mew, me meow meooooow, meeeeooow me meoooow, meeooow meeeeoow mew

origin of moral distinctions, about which the learned have
meeeow me meeow meeeeeeeeoow, meoow meoow mew meeooow meow

involved themselves in such mazes of perplexity and error.
meeoooow meeeeoooow me meow meeow me meeeeeeoow mew meeow.




But besides all the AGREEABLE qualities, the origin of whose
Mew meoooow mew mew MEEEEEOOW meeeoooow, mew meeeow me meoow

beauty we can, in some degree, explain and account for, there
meeoow me mew, me meow meooow, meoooow mew meoooow mew, meoow

still remains something mysterious and inexplicable, which
meeow meeooow meeeeeoow meeeeoooow mew meeeeeeeeoow, meeow

conveys an immediate satisfaction to the spectator, but how, or
meeeoow me meeeeeoow meooooooooow me mew meeeeeoow, mew mew, me

why, or for what reason, he cannot pretend to determine. There is
mew, me mew meow meeeow, me meeoow meeeeow me meeeoooow. Meoow me

a manner, a grace, an ease, a genteelness, an I-know-not-what,
m meooow, m meoow, me meow, m meeeeeeeeow, me M-meow-mew-meow,

which some men possess above others, which is very different from
meoow meow mew meoooow meoow meeoow, meoow me meow meeeeeoow meow

external beauty and comeliness, and which, however, catches our
meeoooow meeoow mew meeeooooow, mew meeow, meeooow, meeeeow mew

affection almost as suddenly and powerfully. And though this
meeeoooow meeeow me meeoooow mew meeeooooow. Mew meeeow meow

MANNER be chiefly talked of in the passion between the sexes,
MEEOOW me meeeoow meeeow me me mew meeooow meeeoow mew meoow,

where the concealed magic is easily explained, yet surely much of
meoow mew meeeeeeow meeow me meeoow meeeeeeow, mew meooow meow me

it prevails in all our estimation of characters, and forms no
me meeoooow me mew mew meeoooooow me meeeeoooow, mew meeow me

inconsiderable part of personal merit. This class of
meeeeeeoooooow meow me meeeeoow meoow. Meow meoow me

accomplishments, therefore, must be trusted entirely to the
meeeeeeeeooooow, meeeeeeow, meow me meeeoow meeoooow me mew

blind, but sure testimony of taste and sentiment; and must be
meoow, mew meow meeeeeoow me meeow mew meeeeooow; mew meow me

considered as a part of ethics, left by nature to baffle all the
meeeeeooow me m meow me meeeow, meow me meooow me meooow mew mew

pride of philosophy, and make her sensible of her narrow
meeow me meeoooooow, mew meow mew meeeeoow me mew meeoow

boundaries and slender acquisitions.
meeeeeeeow mew meeeeow meooooooooow.




We approve of another, because of his wit, politeness, modesty,
Me meoooow me meeooow, meeooow me mew mew, meeoooooow, meeeoow,

decency, or any agreeable quality which he possesses; although he
meeeeow, me mew meeeeooow meeooow meeow me meeeeeoow; meooooow me

be not of our acquaintance, nor has ever given us any
me mew me mew meeoooooooow, mew mew meow meeow me mew

entertainment, by means of these accomplishments. The idea, which
meeeeeeeeooow, me meoow me meoow meeeoooooooooow. Mew meow, meeow

we form of their effect on his acquaintance, has an agreeable
me meow me meeow meooow me mew meeeeeeeeeow, mew me meeooooow

influence on our imagination, and gives us the sentiment of
meeeeeoow me mew meoooooooow, mew meoow me mew meoooooow me

approbation. This principle enters into all the judgements which
meeeeeeooow. Meow meeeeooow meooow meow mew mew meeoooooow meeow

we form concerning manners and characters.
me meow meeeeeeoow meeeeow mew meeeeoooow.










SECTION IX.
MEOOOOW ME.




CONCLUSION.
MEEEEEEOOW.










PART I.
MEOW M.










IT may justly appear surprising that any man in so late an age,
ME mew meeeow meeoow meeeeoooow meow mew mew me me meow me mew,

should find it requisite to prove, by elaborate reasoning, that
meeoow meow me meeeoooow me meoow, me meeeoooow meoooooow, meow

Personal Merit consists altogether in the possession of mental
Meooooow Meoow meeeeoow meeoooooow me mew meooooooow me meeoow

qualities, USEFUL or AGREEABLE to the PERSON HIMSELF or to
meeeeooow, MEEEOW me MEEEEEOOW me mew MEOOOW MEEEOOW me me

OTHERS. It might be expected that this principle would have
MEOOOW. Me meeow me meooooow meow meow meeeeeoow meeow meow

occurred even to the first rude, unpractised enquirers concerning
meeeooow meow me mew meeow meow, meoooooooow meeooooow meooooooow

morals, and been received from its own evidence, without any
meooow, mew meow meeoooow meow mew mew meeeeoow, meeooow mew

argument or disputation. Whatever is valuable in any kind, so
meeeeoow me meoooooooow. Meeeeeow me meeoooow me mew meow, me

naturally classes itself under the division of USEFUL or
meeeeeeow meeeeow meeoow meeow mew meooooow me MEEEOW me

AGREEABLE, the UTILE or the DULCE, that it is not easy to imagine
MEEOOOOOW, mew MEEOW me mew MEEOW, meow me me mew meow me meeeeow

why we should ever seek further, or consider the question as a
mew me meeoow meow meow meeooow, me meeoooow mew meeeooow me m

matter of nice research or inquiry. And as every thing useful or
meeoow me meow meeeeoow me meeooow. Mew me meeow meeow meooow me

agreeable must possess these qualities with regard either to the
meeeeeeow meow meeeeow meoow meeeeeoow meow meeeow meeeow me mew

PERSON HIMSELF or to OTHERS, the complete delineation or
MEOOOW MEEEOOW me me MEOOOW, mew meeeeoow meeeeooooow me

description of merit seems to be performed as naturally as a
meeeeeeeoow me meeow meoow me me meeeeeoow me meeeeooow me m

shadow is cast by the sun, or an image is reflected upon water.
meeeow me meow me mew mew, me me meeow me meeooooow meow meeow.

If the ground, on which the shadow is cast, be not broken and
Me mew meeoow, me meoow mew meeoow me meow, me mew meooow mew

uneven; nor the surface from which the image is reflected,
meeeow; mew mew meeeoow meow meeow mew meeow me meeeeeeow,

disturbed and confused; a just figure is immediately presented,
meeeeeeow mew meeeeoow; m meow meeeow me meeeeeoooow meeeeeoow,

without any art or attention. And it seems a reasonable
meoooow mew mew me meeeeooow. Mew me meeow m meeeeeeeow

presumption, that systems and hypotheses have perverted our
meeeoooooow, meow meoooow mew meeeeeeeow meow meeeoooow mew

natural understanding, when a theory, so simple and obvious,
meoooow meeeeeoooooow, meow m meeeow, me meooow mew meeeeow,

could so long have escaped the most elaborate examination.
meoow me meow meow meeooow mew meow meeeeeoow meeeeooooow.




But however the case may have fared with philosophy, in common
Mew meeeoow mew meow mew meow meeow meow meeoooooow, me meeeow

life these principles are still implicitly maintained; nor is any
meow meeow meeeeeeeow mew meoow meeeeoooow meeeeoooow; mew me mew

other topic of praise or blame ever recurred to, when we employ
meoow meeow me meeeow me meoow meow meeeeoow me, meow me meooow

any panegyric or satire, any applause or censure of human action
mew meeooooow me meooow, mew meeeooow me meeeeow me meoow meooow

and behaviour. If we observe men, in every intercourse of
mew meeeeooow. Me me meeeeow mew, me meoow meeeeeeeeow me

business or pleasure, in every discourse and conversation, we
meeeeoow me meeeooow, me meeow meeeeeoow mew meeeeeeeooow, me

shall find them nowhere, except the schools, at any loss upon
meeow meow meow meeooow, meeeow mew meeeeow, me mew meow meow

this subject. What so natural, for instance, as the following
meow meeeeow. Meow me meoooow, mew meooooow, me mew meeeeeeow

dialogue? You are very happy, we shall suppose one to say,
meeeeoow? Mew mew meow meeow, me meoow meeooow mew me mew,

addressing himself to another, that you have given your daughter
meooooooow meeooow me meeeeow, meow mew meow meeow meow meeoooow

to Cleanthes. He is a man of honour and humanity. Every one, who
me Meeeeeoow. Me me m mew me meeeow mew meeeooow. Meoow mew, mew

has any intercourse with him, is sure of FAIR and KIND treatment.
mew mew meeeeeeeoow meow mew, me meow me MEOW mew MEOW meeeeooow.

[Footnote: Qualities useful to others.] I congratulate you too,
[Meeeeeow: Meeeeooow meeoow me meooow.] M meeeooooooow mew mew,

says another, on the promising expectations of this son-in-law;
meow meeooow, me mew meeeeeeow meeeeeeoooow me meow mew-me-mew;

whose assiduous application to the study of the laws, whose quick
meeow meeooooow meeeeeoooow me mew meeow me mew meow, meoow meoow

penetration and early knowledge both of men and business,
meeeoooooow mew meeow meeeoooow meow me mew mew meooooow,

prognosticate the greatest honours and advancement. [Footnote:
meeeoooooooow mew meeeeeow meeooow mew meeeeeeeeow. [Meeoooow:

Qualities useful to the person himself.] You surprise me, replies
Meeooooow meeeow me mew meooow meeeoow.] Mew meeoooow me, meeooow

a third, when you talk of Cleanthes as a man of business and
m meeow, meow mew meow me Meoooooow me m mew me meeeooow mew

application. I met him lately in a circle of the gayest company,
meoooooooow. M mew mew meeoow me m meooow me mew meeeow meeeoow,

and he was the very life and soul of our conversation: so much
mew me mew mew meow meow mew meow me mew meeeooooooow: me meow

wit with good manners; so much gallantry without affectation; so
mew meow meow meeeoow; me meow meoooooow meeooow meeeeeeooow; me

much ingenious knowledge so genteelly delivered, I have never
meow meeeoooow meeooooow me meeeeooow meeeeeeow, M meow meeow

before observed in any one. [Footnote: Qualities immediately
meeeow meooooow me mew mew. [Meooooow: Meeooooow meeeeeeeeow

agreeable to others,] You would admire him still more, says a
meeooooow me meooow,] Mew meoow meooow mew meoow meow, meow m

fourth, if you knew him more familiarly. That cheerfulness, which
meeoow, me mew meow mew meow meeeooooow. Meow meeeeoooooow, meeow

you might remark in him, is not a sudden flash struck out by
mew meeow meeoow me mew, me mew m meeoow meoow meeeow mew me

company: it runs through the whole tenor of his life, and
meeooow: me meow meeeoow mew meeow meeow me mew meow, mew

preserves a perpetual serenity on his countenance, and
meeeoooow m meoooooow meeeeoow me mew meeeeeoooow, mew

tranquillity in his soul. He has met with severe trials,
meeeeeeeooow me mew meow. Me mew mew meow meeeow meeeow,

misfortunes as well as dangers; and by his greatness of mind, was
meeooooooow me meow me meeeoow; mew me mew meeeeeoow me meow, mew

still superior to all of them [Footnote: Qualities immediately
meoow meeeeeow me mew me meow [Meeeeoow: Meeeoooow meeeeeeooow

agreeable to the person himself]. The image, gentlemen, which you
meeeeeeow me mew meeoow meeeoow]. Mew meeow, meoooooow, meeow mew

have here delineated of Cleanthes, cried I, is that of
meow meow meooooooow me Meeeeeeow, meoow M, me meow me

accomplished merit. Each of you has given a stroke of the pencil
meeeeeeeooow meeow. Meow me mew mew meoow m meeeow me mew meooow

to his figure; and you have unawares exceeded all the pictures
me mew meeoow; mew mew meow meeeeoow meeeooow mew mew meeeeeow

drawn by Gratian or Castiglione. A philosopher might select this
meeow me Meoooow me Meeeeeeooow. M meeeeeoooow meoow meeoow meow

character as a model of perfect virtue.
meeeeeeow me m meoow me meeeoow meeeow.




And as every quality which is useful or agreeable to ourselves or
Mew me meoow meoooow meeow me meooow me meeeeooow me meeeeooow me

others is, in common life, allowed to be a part of personal
meeoow me, me meeeow meow, meeeoow me me m meow me meeeeeow

merit; so no other will ever be received, where men judge of
meeow; me me meoow meow meow me meooooow, meeow mew meeow me

things by their natural, unprejudiced reason, without the
meeoow me meeow meoooow, meooooooooow meeeow, meoooow mew

delusive glosses of superstition and false religion. Celibacy,
meeoooow meeeeow me meeeeoooooow mew meoow meeoooow. Meeeooow,

fasting, penance, mortification, self-denial, humility, silence,
meoooow, meeeeow, meeeeeeeeeeow, meow-meooow, meeeooow, meeooow,

solitude, and the whole train of monkish virtues; for what reason
meooooow, mew mew meeow meoow me meeooow meeooow; mew meow meooow

are they everywhere rejected by men of sense, but because they
mew meow meeeeeooow meeoooow me mew me meeow, mew meeooow meow

serve to no manner of purpose; neither advance a man's fortune in
meoow me me meeeow me meeeeow; meeeeow meeeoow m mew'm meeeoow me

the world, nor render him a more valuable member of society;
mew meeow, mew meooow mew m meow meeeooow meeoow me meeeeow;

neither qualify him for the entertainment of company, nor
meeeeow meeooow mew mew mew meeeeeeeeeeow me meeeeow, mew

increase his power of self-enjoyment? We observe, on the
meeeeeow mew meoow me meow-meeeeeeow? Me meoooow, me mew

contrary, that they cross all these desirable ends; stupify the
meooooow, meow meow meoow mew meoow meoooooow meow; meoooow mew

understanding and harden the heart, obscure the fancy and sour
meeeeeeeoooow mew meeoow mew meeow, meeeeow mew meeow mew meow

the temper. We justly, therefore, transfer them to the opposite
mew meeeow. Me meeoow, meeeeeeow, meeoooow meow me mew meeoooow

column, and place them in the catalogue of vices; nor has any
meeeow, mew meeow meow me mew meoooooow me meeow; mew mew mew

superstition force sufficient among men of the world, to pervert
meeeeeeoooow meeow meeeeeooow meoow mew me mew meeow, me meoooow

entirely these natural sentiments. A gloomy, hair-brained
meeeeeow meoow meeooow meeeooooow. M meeeow, meow-meeooow

enthusiast, after his death, may have a place in the calendar;
meeeeeooow, meoow mew meeow, mew meow m meeow me mew meeeeoow;

but will scarcely ever be admitted, when alive, into intimacy and
mew meow meooooow meow me meooooow, meow meoow, meow meeeeoow mew

society, except by those who are as delirious and dismal as
meeooow, meeoow me meeow mew mew me meeooooow mew meooow me

himself.
meeeoow.




It seems a happiness in the present theory, that it enters not
Me meoow m meeeeooow me mew meeooow meeeow, meow me meeoow mew

into that vulgar dispute concerning the DEGREES of benevolence or
meow meow meooow meoooow meeeeeeoow mew MEEOOOW me meeooooooow me

self-love, which prevail in human nature; a dispute which is
meow-meow, meoow meeooow me meeow meooow; m meoooow meeow me

never likely to have any issue, both because men, who have taken
meeow meeoow me meow mew meeow, meow meeeeow mew, mew meow meoow

part, are not easily convinced, and because the phenomena, which
meow, mew mew meeeow meeooooow, mew meeeeow mew meeeeooow, meeow

can be produced on either side, are so dispersed, so uncertain,
mew me meooooow me meeoow meow, mew me meeeeooow, me meeooooow,

and subject to so many interpretations, that it is scarcely
mew meoooow me me meow meeeeeeeeooooow, meow me me meooooow

possible accurately to compare them, or draw from them any
meeeeoow meeeeeeeow me meeeoow meow, me meow meow meow mew

determinate inference or conclusion. It is sufficient for our
meeeeeeooow meeeeeoow me meeeooooow. Me me meeoooooow mew mew

present purpose, if it be allowed, what surely, without the
meeooow meeeeow, me me me meeooow, meow meeoow, meeeoow mew

greatest absurdity cannot be disputed, that there is some
meeoooow meeeoooow meooow me meeeeeow, meow meeow me meow

benevolence, however small, infused into our bosom; some spark of
meeeoooooow, meeooow meoow, meoooow meow mew meeow; meow meeow me

friendship for human kind; some particle of the dove kneaded into
meeeeoooow mew meoow meow; meow meeeeoow me mew meow meeeoow meow

our frame, along with the elements of the wolf and serpent. Let
mew meeow, meeow meow mew meeeeoow me mew meow mew meoooow. Mew

these generous sentiments be supposed ever so weak; let them be
meoow meooooow meeeeeooow me meeeeoow meow me meow; mew meow me

insufficient to move even a hand or finger of our body, they must
meeeeeeeooow me meow meow m meow me meeoow me mew meow, meow meow

still direct the determinations of our mind, and where everything
meeow meooow mew meeeeeeeeeeeow me mew meow, mew meoow meeeeoooow

else is equal, produce a cool preference of what is useful and
meow me meeow, meeeeow m meow meeeeeeeow me meow me meeeow mew

serviceable to mankind, above what is pernicious and dangerous. A
meeeeooooow me meoooow, meoow meow me meeeeoooow mew meeeeooow. M

MORAL DISTINCTION, therefore, immediately arises; a general
MEOOW MEEEEEEEOOW, meoooooow, meeeeooooow meooow; m meoooow

sentiment of blame and approbation; a tendency, however faint, to
meeooooow me meoow mew meeeeeeooow; m meooooow, meeooow meeow, me

the objects of the one, and a proportionable aversion to those of
mew meeeeow me mew mew, mew m meeeeeeeooooow meooooow me meoow me

the other. Nor will those reasoners, who so earnestly maintain
mew meoow. Mew meow meeow meeeeeoow, mew me meeeoooow meeoooow

the predominant selfishness of human kind, be any wise
mew meeeeooooow meeeeeoooow me meoow meow, me mew meow

scandalized at hearing of the weak sentiments of virtue implanted
meeeeeeeeow me meeeeow me mew meow meeeeeeoow me meeeow meoooooow

in our nature. On the contrary, they are found as ready to
me mew meooow. Me mew meeoooow, meow mew meoow me meoow me

maintain the one tenet as the other; and their spirit of satire
meeeeoow mew mew meeow me mew meoow; mew meeow meeeow me meeoow

(for such it appears, rather than of corruption) naturally gives
(mew meow me meoooow, meeoow meow me meeeeeeeow) meoooooow meoow

rise to both opinions; which have, indeed, a great and almost an
meow me meow meeeooow; meoow meow, meeoow, m meeow mew meeeow me

indissoluble connexion together.
meeeeeeeeeow meeeoooow meeoooow.




Avarice, ambition, vanity, and all passions vulgarly, though
Meeooow, meooooow, meeoow, mew mew meeeooow meeeeoow, meooow

improperly, comprised under the denomination of SELF-LOVE, are
meeeeeeoow, meeeoooow meeow mew meeeooooooow me MEOW-MEOW, mew

here excluded from our theory concerning the origin of morals,
meow meeeeoow meow mew meeeow meeeeeeoow mew meeeow me meooow,

not because they are too weak, but because they have not a proper
mew meeeeow meow mew mew meow, mew meeooow meow meow mew m meeoow

direction for that purpose. The notion of morals implies some
meeeeooow mew meow meeeoow. Mew meeeow me meeeow meeeoow meow

sentiment common to all mankind, which recommends the same object
meeeeeoow meeeow me mew meeeeow, meeow meeeeeeeow mew meow meeeow

to general approbation, and makes every man, or most men, agree
me meeeoow meeeeooooow, mew meeow meeow mew, me meow mew, meeow

in the same opinion or decision concerning it. It also implies
me mew meow meoooow me meeoooow meeoooooow me. Me meow meeeoow

some sentiment, so universal and comprehensive as to extend to
meow meeeoooow, me meeeoooow mew meeeeeeooooow me me meooow me

all mankind, and render the actions and conduct, even of the
mew meoooow, mew meeeow mew meeeeow mew meeeeow, meow me mew

persons the most remote, an object of applause or censure,
meoooow mew meow meeoow, me meooow me meeeooow me meeeoow,

according as they agree or disagree with that rule of right which
meeeeeoow me meow meeow me meooooow meow meow meow me meoow meoow

is established. These two requisite circumstances belong alone to
me meoooooooow. Meeow mew meoooooow meeeoooooooow meeeow meoow me

the sentiment of humanity here insisted on. The other passions
mew meeeeeoow me meooooow meow meeeeeow me. Mew meeow meooooow

produce in every breast, many strong sentiments of desire and
meeeeow me meeow meooow, meow meeoow meeeooooow me meeeow mew

aversion, affection and hatred; but these neither are felt so
meeeeoow, meoooooow mew meooow; mew meoow meeooow mew meow me

much in common, nor are so comprehensive, as to be the foundation
meow me meooow, mew mew me meeooooooooow, me me me mew meeoooooow

of any general system and established theory of blame or
me mew meeooow meeoow mew meeooooooow meooow me meeow me

approbation.
meeooooooow.




When a man denominates another his ENEMY, his RIVAL, his
Meow m mew meeeeooooow meoooow mew MEEOW, mew MEEOW, mew

ANTAGONIST, his ADVERSARY, he is understood to speak the language
MEEOOOOOOW, mew MEEEEOOOW, me me meeoooooow me meoow mew meeoooow

of self-love, and to express sentiments, peculiar to himself, and
me meow-meow, mew me meoooow meeeeeeeow, meeeeeow me meeeeow, mew

arising from his particular circumstances and situation. But when
meeooow meow mew meeeeeeoow meoooooooooow mew meeeeeoow. Mew meow

he bestows on any man the epithets of VICIOUS or ODIOUS or
me meeeeow me mew mew mew meeeeoow me MEOOOOW me MEEOOW me

DEPRAVED, he then speaks another language, and expresses
MEEEEOOW, me meow meeoow meeeoow meeoooow, mew meeeeooow

sentiments, in which he expects all his audience are to concur
meeeooooow, me meoow me meeeeow mew mew meooooow mew me meooow

with him. He must here, therefore, depart from his private and
meow mew. Me meow meow, meeeeooow, meeeow meow mew meeeoow mew

particular situation, and must choose a point of view, common to
meeeeeeeow meeeeeoow, mew meow meeeow m meoow me meow, meeeow me

him with others; he must move some universal principle of the
mew meow meeoow; me meow meow meow meeooooow meeeeeeow me mew

human frame, and touch a string to which all mankind have an
meeow meeow, mew meeow m meeeow me meoow mew meeeeow meow me

accord and symphony. If he mean, therefore, to express that this
meooow mew meeeeeow. Me me meow, meeeeeoow, me meeeoow meow meow

man possesses qualities, whose tendency is pernicious to society,
mew meeeeeeow meoooooow, meoow meeeeeow me meeeeeooow me meeeoow,

he has chosen this common point of view, and has touched the
me mew meooow meow meeoow meoow me meow, mew mew meeeoow mew

principle of humanity, in which every man, in some degree,
meeeeeeow me meeeeeow, me meoow meeow mew, me meow meeoow,

concurs. While the human heart is compounded of the same elements
meeeeow. Meoow mew meeow meoow me meeeeeeoow me mew meow meeeeoow

as at present, it will never be wholly indifferent to public
me me meeeoow, me meow meeow me meooow meoooooooow me meeoow

good, nor entirely unaffected with the tendency of characters and
meow, mew meeoooow meeeeeooow meow mew meeeeeow me meeeeoooow mew

manners. And though this affection of humanity may not generally
meeooow. Mew meooow meow meeooooow me meeoooow mew mew meoooooow

be esteemed so strong as vanity or ambition, yet, being common to
me meeeeoow me meooow me meooow me meeeeoow, mew, meeow meeoow me

all men, it can alone be the foundation of morals, or of any-
mew mew, me mew meeow me mew meeeooooow me meooow, me me mew-

general system of blame or praise. One man's ambition is not
meeooow meeeow me meeow me meeeow. Mew mew'm meooooow me mew

another's ambition, nor will the same event or object satisfy
meeeoow'm meeeeoow, mew meow mew meow meeow me meeeow meoooow

both; but the humanity of one man is the humanity of every one,
meow; mew mew meeeeoow me mew mew me mew meeeeoow me meoow mew,

and the same object touches this passion in all human creatures.
mew mew meow meeoow meeeeow meow meeeeow me mew meoow meoooooow.




But the sentiments, which arise from humanity, are not only the
Mew mew meeeeeeoow, meeow meoow meow meeeeeow, mew mew meow mew

same in all human creatures, and produce the same approbation or
meow me mew meoow meeeoooow, mew meoooow mew meow meeeeeeooow me

censure; but they also comprehend all human creatures; nor is
meeooow; mew meow meow meeeeeooow mew meoow meeeeooow; mew me

there any one whose conduct or character is not, by their means,
meeow mew mew meoow meeooow me meeooooow me mew, me meoow meeow,

an object to every one of censure or approbation. On the
me meeoow me meeow mew me meeooow me meeeeooooow. Me mew

contrary, those other passions, commonly denominated selfish,
meeeeeow, meoow meeow meooooow, meeeooow meeeoooooow meeeoow,

both produce different sentiments in each individual, according
meow meeooow meeeeooow meooooooow me meow meeeooooow, meeeeooow

to his particular situation; and also contemplate the greater
me mew meeeeeeoow meeeeeeow; mew meow meoooooooow mew meeeoow

part of mankind with the utmost indifference and unconcern.
meow me meeeoow meow mew meeoow meooooooooow mew meeooooow.

Whoever has a high regard and esteem for me flatters my vanity;
Meeeeow mew m meow meooow mew meeoow mew me meeeeeow me meeoow;

whoever expresses contempt mortifies and displeases me; but as my
meeeeow meoooooow meooooow meeooooow mew meeeeoooow me; mew me me

name is known but to a small part of mankind, there are few who
meow me meeow mew me m meeow meow me meoooow, meoow mew mew mew

come within the sphere of this passion, or excite, on its
meow meooow mew meeoow me meow meoooow, me meeeow, me mew

account, either my affection or disgust. But if you represent a
meeeeow, meeeow me meeeeeeow me meeeoow. Mew me mew meeeeeoow m

tyrannical, insolent, or barbarous behaviour, in any country or
meeoooooow, meeeeeow, me meeeeooow meeeeeoow, me mew meeeeow me

in any age of the world, I soon carry my eye to the pernicious
me mew mew me mew meeow, M meow meoow me mew me mew meeeeeeeow

tendency of such a conduct, and feel the sentiment of repugnance
meeeeeow me meow m meoooow, mew meow mew meoooooow me meeeeoooow

and displeasure towards it. No character can be so remote as to
mew meeeeeoooow meeooow me. Me meeeeooow mew me me meeoow me me

be, in this light, wholly indifferent to me. What is beneficial
me, me meow meeow, meeoow meeeeeeeeow me me. Meow me meeeeeeeow

to society or to the person himself must still be preferred. And
me meeooow me me mew meooow meeeoow meow meoow me meeeoooow. Mew

every quality or action, of every human being, must, by this
meoow meeeeow me meeoow, me meoow meoow meeow, meow, me meow

means, be ranked under some class or denomination, expressive of
meoow, me meeoow meeow meow meeow me meeeeoooooow, meeeooooow me

general censure or applause.
meeeeow meeooow me meooooow.




What more, therefore, can we ask to distinguish the sentiments,
Meow meow, meeeoooow, mew me mew me meoooooooow mew meeeeeeeow,

dependent on humanity, from those connected with any other
meeeeeoow me meeeooow, meow meeow meeeeeoow meow mew meeow

passion, or to satisfy us, why the former are the origin of
meeeeow, me me meeeeow me, mew mew meeeow mew mew meeoow me

morals, not the latter? Whatever conduct gains my approbation, by
meeeow, mew mew meooow? Meooooow meoooow meeow me meeeoooooow, me

touching my humanity, procures also the applause of all mankind,
meooooow me meeeeoow, meeoooow meow mew meeoooow me mew meeooow,

by affecting the same principle in them; but what serves my
me meeooooow mew meow meeeoooow me meow; mew meow meooow me

avarice or ambition pleases these passions in me alone, and
meeeoow me meeeeoow meeeoow meeow meeeeeow me me meeow, mew

affects not the avarice and ambition of the rest of mankind.
meoooow mew mew meeeeow mew meeeeeow me mew meow me meeooow.

There is no circumstance of conduct in any man, provided it have
Meoow me me meeeooooooow me meoooow me mew mew, meooooow me meow

a beneficial tendency, that is not agreeable to my humanity,
m meeeeoooow meeeeeow, meow me mew meeooooow me me meooooow,

however remote the person; but every man, so far removed as
meoooow meeeow mew meeoow; mew meoow mew, me mew meeeeow me

neither to cross nor serve my avarice and ambition, is regarded
meeooow me meeow mew meeow me meeeoow mew meeoooow, me meeoooow

as wholly indifferent by those passions. The distinction,
me meeoow meeeeeoooow me meeow meooooow. Mew meeeeeeooow,

therefore, between these species of sentiment being so great and
meeeeeeow, meoooow meeow meeeoow me meeeeooow meoow me meeow mew

evident, language must soon be moulded upon it, and must invent a
meoooow, meooooow meow meow me meeeeow meow me, mew meow meooow m

peculiar set of terms, in order to express those universal
meeeeeow mew me meoow, me meoow me meeooow meeow meeeeeoow

sentiments of censure or approbation, which arise from humanity,
meooooooow me meeeoow me meeooooooow, meeow meeow meow meeeooow,

or from views of general usefulness and its contrary. Virtue and
me meow meoow me meeooow meeoooooow mew mew meooooow. Meooow mew

Vice become then known; morals are recognized; certain general
Meow meeeow meow meeow; meeoow mew meooooooow; meeeoow meoooow

ideas are framed of human conduct and behaviour; such measures
meoow mew meooow me meeow meoooow mew meeeeooow; meow meeoooow

are expected from men in such situations. This action is
mew meeeeoow meow mew me meow meeeeeeoow. Meow meeeow me

determined to be conformable to our abstract rule; that other,
meeeeoooow me me meeeeooooow me mew meeeeeow meow; meow meeow,

contrary. And by such universal principles are the particular
meooooow. Mew me meow meeeeooow meooooooow mew mew meeeeoooow

sentiments of self-love frequently controlled and limited.
meeeooooow me meow-meow meeeeeeoow meeeeeooow mew meeeeow.




[Footnote: It seems certain, both from reason and experience,
[Meeeooow: Me meeow meeeoow, meow meow meooow mew meeeeeooow,

that a rude, untaught savage regulates chiefly his love and
meow m meow, meeeeoow meooow meeeeooow meeeeow mew meow mew

hatred by the ideas of private utility and injury, and has but
meeoow me mew meoow me meoooow meeooow mew meeeow, mew mew mew

faint conceptions of a general rule or system of behaviour. The
meoow meeeeeeeoow me m meeeoow meow me meeeow me meeeeeeow. Mew

man who stands opposite to him in battle, he hates heartedly, not
mew mew meeoow meeeooow me mew me meeoow, me meeow meeeeeoow, mew

only for the present moment, which is almost unavoidable, but for
meow mew mew meeeeow meeeow, meeow me meeeow meeeoooooow, mew mew

ever after; nor is he satisfied without the most extreme
meow meeow; mew me me meoooooow meoooow mew meow meeeoow

punishment and vengeance. But we, accustomed to society, and to
meeoooooow mew meeeoooow. Mew me, meeeeeeoow me meeeoow, mew me

more enlarged reflections, consider, that this man is serving his
meow meeoooow meeooooooow, meeeeeow, meow meow mew me meeeeow mew

own country and community; that any man, in the same situation,
mew meoooow mew meeeeeeow; meow mew mew, me mew meow meeeeeoow,

would do the same; that we ourselves, in like circumstances,
meeow me mew meow; meow me meeeeooow, me meow meoooooooooow,

observe a like conduct; that; in general, human society is best
meeeoow m meow meeooow; meow; me meeooow, meoow meoooow me meow

supported on such maxims: and by these suppositions and views, we
meeeoooow me meow meeoow: mew me meeow meeeeeeeeeow mew meoow, me

correct, in some measure, our ruder and narrower positions. And
meeeeow, me meow meeeoow, mew meeow mew meeoooow meoooooow. Mew

though much of our friendship and enemity be still regulated by
meeeow meow me mew meeoooooow mew meoooow me meeow meeooooow me

private considerations of benefit and harm, we pay, at least,
meeeoow meeeeeooooooow me meeooow mew meow, me mew, me meoow,

this homage to general rules, which we are accustomed to respect,
meow meeoow me meeeoow meeow, meeow me mew meeoooooow me meoooow,

that we commonly perver our adversary's conduct, by imputing
meow me meeoooow meooow mew meeooooow'm meoooow, me meeeeeow

malice or injustice to him, in order to give vent to those
meooow me meoooooow me mew, me meeow me meow meow me meeow

passions, which arise from self-love and private interest. When
meooooow, meoow meeow meow meow-meow mew meeeoow meeeooow. Meow

the heart is full of rage, it never wants pretences of this
mew meoow me meow me meow, me meeow meeow meoooooow me meow

nature; though sometimes as frivolous, as those from which
meeoow; meeeow meeooooow me meoooooow, me meeow meow meeow

Horace, being almost crushed by the fall of a tree, effects to
Meooow, meeow meooow meeeoow me mew meow me m meow, meeooow me

accuse of parricide the first planter of it.]
meooow me meeeeeeow mew meeow meoooow me me.]




From instances of popular tumults, seditions, factions, panics,
Meow meoooooow me meeooow meeeoow, meeeeooow, meeoooow, meooow,

and of all passions, which are shared with a multitude, we may
mew me mew meeeooow, meoow mew meeeow meow m meeeoooow, me mew

learn the influence of society in exciting and supporting any
meoow mew meeeoooow me meeooow me meeoooow mew meeoooooow mew

emotion; while the most ungovernable disorders are raised, we
meeeeow; meoow mew meow meeoooooooow meeeoooow mew meeoow, me

find, by that means, from the slightest and most frivolous
meow, me meow meoow, meow mew meoooooow mew meow meeeeeeow

occasions. Solon was no very cruel, though, perhaps, an unjust
meeeeeoow. Meeow mew me meow meoow, meeeow, meoooow, me meooow

legislator, who punished neuters in civil wars; and few, I
meeoooooow, mew meeoooow meeeoow me meoow meow; mew mew, M

believe, would, in such cases, incur the penalty, were their
meeooow, meoow, me meow meeow, meoow mew meeooow, meow meoow

affection and discourse allowed sufficient to absolve them. No
meeeeeeow mew meeeoooow meeeoow meeeeeeoow me meeeeow meow. Me

selfishness, and scarce any philosophy, have there force
meeeoooooow, mew meooow mew meeeeeooow, meow meeow meoow

sufficient to support a total coolness and indifference; and he
meeeeoooow me meeeoow m meoow meeeeoow mew meeoooooooow; mew me

must be more or less than man, who kindles not in the common
meow me meow me meow meow mew, mew meeooow mew me mew meeeow

blaze. What wonder then, that moral sentiments are found of such
meoow. Meow meeeow meow, meow meoow meeeeeeeow mew meoow me meow

influence in life; though springing from principles, which may
meoooooow me meow; meeoow meoooooow meow meeeeeeoow, meoow mew

appear, at first sight, somewhat small and delicate? But these
meeoow, me meoow meeow, meeeooow meeow mew meooooow? Mew meoow

principles, we must remark, are social and universal; they form,
meeeooooow, me meow meeeow, mew meeeow mew meeeeeeow; meow meow,

in a manner, the PARTY of humankind against vice or disorder, its
me m meeoow, mew MEOOW me meeeeeeow meoooow meow me meeeeeow, mew

common enemy. And as the benevolent concern for others is
meeeow meoow. Mew me mew meeeeeeeow meoooow mew meeeow me

diffused, in a greater or less degree, over all men, and is the
meooooow, me m meeeoow me meow meooow, meow mew mew, mew me mew

same in all, it occurs more frequently in discourse, is cherished
meow me mew, me meeoow meow meooooooow me meeeeeoow, me meeeoooow

by society and conversation, and the blame and approbation,
me meeeeow mew meeeooooooow, mew mew meeow mew meeeeooooow,

consequent on it, are thereby roused from that lethargy into
meeeeoooow me me, mew meoooow meeoow meow meow meooooow meow

which they are probably lulled, in solitary and uncultivated
meoow meow mew meeoooow meooow, me meeoooow mew meeeeeeeeoow

nature. Other passions, though perhaps originally stronger, yet
meeeow. Meoow meeeooow, meeoow meoooow meeeeoooow meeeeeow, mew

being selfish and private, are often overpowered by its force,
meoow meeooow mew meoooow, mew meoow meeeeeeooow me mew meeow,

and yield the dominion of our breast to those social and public
mew meeow mew meeeeeow me mew meeoow me meoow meeoow mew meeoow

principles.
meooooooow.




Another spring of our constitution, that brings a great addition
Meeooow meeoow me mew meeeooooooow, meow meooow m meoow meooooow

of force to moral sentiments, is the love of fame; which rules,
me meeow me meeow meeeeeooow, me mew meow me meow; meeow meoow,

with such uncontrolled authority, in all generous minds, and is
meow meow meeeeeeoooow meeeeeoow, me mew meeoooow meoow, mew me

often the grand object of all their designs and undertakings. By
meeow mew meoow meooow me mew meoow meeeoow mew meeeooooooow. Me

our continual and earnest pursuit of a character, a name, a
mew meeeeeoow mew meoooow meeooow me m meoooooow, m meow, m

reputation in the world, we bring our own deportment and conduct
meeeeeeoow me mew meeow, me meoow mew mew meooooooow mew meeeeow

frequently in review, and consider how they appear in the eyes of
meeeeoooow me meeoow, mew meeoooow mew meow meeeow me mew meow me

those who approach and regard us. This constant habit of
meoow mew meooooow mew meeoow me. Meow meeeeeow meoow me

surveying ourselves, as it were, in reflection, keeps alive all
meeeeooow meoooooow, me me meow, me meeoooooow, meoow meeow mew

the sentiments of right and wrong, and begets, in noble natures,
mew meeeeeooow me meeow mew meeow, mew meeeow, me meoow meoooow,

a certain reverence for themselves as well as others, which is
m meeeeow meoooooow mew meeeeoooow me meow me meeeow, meeow me

the surest guardian of every virtue. The animal conveniencies and
mew meooow meeeeeow me meeow meeoow. Mew meeeow meeeeeeeoooow mew

pleasures sink gradually in their value; while every inward
meeeeeoow meow meoooooow me meoow meoow; meeow meeow meooow

beauty and moral grace is studiously acquired, and the mind is
meooow mew meeow meoow me meooooooow meeeeoow, mew mew meow me

accomplished in every perfection, which can adorn or embellish a
meeoooooooow me meoow meeoooooow, meeow mew meoow me meoooooow m

rational creature.
meeoooow meooooow.




Here is the most perfect morality with which we are acquainted:
Meow me mew meow meoooow meeeeoow meow meeow me mew meeeeeeoow:

here is displayed the force of many sympathies. Our moral
meow me meeeoooow mew meoow me meow meeeeeooow. Mew meeow

sentiment is itself a feeling chiefly of that nature, and our
meeeeooow me meooow m meeeoow meoooow me meow meeeow, mew mew

regard to a character with others seems to arise only from a care
meooow me m meeeeeeow meow meeeow meeow me meoow meow meow m meow

of preserving a character with ourselves; and in order to attain
me meeeeeooow m meeeoooow meow meeeeeeow; mew me meoow me meeoow

this end, we find it necessary to prop our tottering judgement on
meow mew, me meow me meoooooow me meow mew meeeoooow meeeoooow me

the correspondent approbation of mankind.
mew meeooooooooow meeeeooooow me meeooow.




But, that we may accommodate matters, and remove if possible
Mew, meow me mew meeeeeeeeow meoooow, mew meeeow me meooooow

every difficulty, let us allow all these reasonings to be false.
meoow meeeeeooow, mew me meoow mew meeow meeeeoooow me me meeow.

Let us allow that, when we resolve the pleasure, which arises
Mew me meoow meow, meow me meeeeow mew meooooow, meoow meooow

from views of utility, into the sentiments of humanity and
meow meeow me meeeeow, meow mew meeeeeeeow me meeeeeow mew

sympathy, we have embraced a wrong hypothesis. Let us confess it
meooooow, me meow meeeeoow m meoow meeeooooow. Mew me meoooow me

necessary to find some other explication of that applause, which
meeeeeoow me meow meow meoow meeooooooow me meow meeeeeow, meeow

is paid to objects, whether inanimate, animate, or rational, if
me meow me meoooow, meoooow meeeeeeow, meeeeow, me meeeooow, me

they have a tendency to promote the welfare and advantage of
meow meow m meeeooow me meeeoow mew meeeoow mew meeeoooow me

mankind. However difficult it be to conceive that an object is
meoooow. Meeeoow meeeeeeow me me me meeeeoow meow me meooow me

approved of on account of its tendency to a certain end, while
meeeeeow me me meoooow me mew meeeeoow me m meeeeow mew, meoow

the end itself is totally indifferent: let us swallow this
mew mew meooow me meeeeow meeeoooooow: mew me meeooow meow

absurdity, and consider what are the consequences. The preceding
meeeoooow, mew meeeeeow meow mew mew meeeeeeeeoow. Mew meeeeooow

delineation or definition of Personal Merit must still retain its
meeeeeoooow me meeoooooow me Meooooow Meoow meow meeow meooow mew

evidence and authority: it must still be allowed that every
meeeeeow mew meeooooow: me meow meeow me meoooow meow meoow

quality of the mind, which is USEFUL or AGREEABLE to the PERSON
meeeeow me mew meow, meoow me MEEEOW me MEOOOOOOW me mew MEOOOW

HIMSELF or to OTHERS, communicates a pleasure to the spectator,
MEEEOOW me me MEOOOW, meeeeeeeeeow m meeoooow me mew meeeoooow,

engages his esteem, and is admitted under the honourable
meoooow mew meooow, mew me meeoooow meoow mew meeeooooow

denomination of virtue or merit. Are not justice, fidelity,
meeeeeeeooow me meeeow me meoow. Mew mew meeooow, meeoooow,

honour, veracity, allegiance, chastity, esteemed solely on
meooow, meeeeeow, meooooooow, meeeeoow, meeeeoow meeoow me

account of their tendency to promote the good of society? Is not
meoooow me meoow meeeeoow me meeooow mew meow me meeeoow? Me mew

that tendency inseparable from humanity, benevolence, lenity,
meow meeoooow meeooooooow meow meooooow, meeeeooooow, meeeow,

generosity, gratitude, moderation, tenderness, friendship, and
meeeeeooow, meoooooow, meeeeeeoow, meeeooooow, meeeeeooow, mew

all the other social virtues? Can it possibly be doubted that
mew mew meoow meeoow meeeoow? Mew me meooooow me meeooow meow

industry, discretion, frugality, secrecy, order, perseverance,
meeoooow, meeeeeooow, meoooooow, meeeoow, meoow, meeeeeeeeoow,

forethought, judgement, and this whole class of virtues and
meoooooooow, meeeeeeow, mew meow meoow meoow me meeeoow mew

accomplishments, of which many pages would not contain the
meeeeeeeeeeeeow, me meeow meow meoow meoow mew meeeeow mew

catalogue; can it be doubted, I say, that the tendency of these
meeeeooow; mew me me meeooow, M mew, meow mew meeeeeow me meoow

qualities to promote the interest and happiness of their
meeooooow me meeeoow mew meooooow mew meeeoooow me meeow

possessor, is the sole foundation of their merit? Who can dispute
meeeeeoow, me mew meow meeoooooow me meeow meoow? Mew mew meeeeow

that a mind, which supports a perpetual serenity and
meow m meow, meoow meeeeoow m meeeeeeow meeeeeow mew

cheerfulness, a noble dignity and undaunted spirit, a tender
meeoooooooow, m meeow meeeeow mew meeeeooow meeeow, m meeoow

affection and good-will to all around; as it has more enjoyment
meeeeeeow mew meow-meow me mew meooow; me me mew meow meeooooow

within itself, is also a more animating and rejoicing spectacle,
meeeow meeoow, me meow m meow meeeoooow mew meeeoooow meeeeeeow,

than if dejected with melancholy, tormented with anxiety,
meow me meeoooow meow meeeeeeoow, meeeoooow meow meeooow,

irritated with rage, or sunk into the most abject baseness and
meeeeooow meow meow, me meow meow mew meow meeoow meeeeeow mew

degeneracy? And as to the qualities, immediately AGREEABLE to
meeeeeeeow? Mew me me mew meeeeeeow, meeooooooow MEEOOOOOW me

OTHERS, they speak sufficiently for themselves; and he must be
MEEEOW, meow meoow meeoooooooow mew meeeeeeoow; mew me meow me

unhappy, indeed, either in his own temper, or in his situation
meeooow, meeoow, meooow me mew mew meeeow, me me mew meeeoooow

and company, who has never perceived the charms of a facetious
mew meeeoow, mew mew meoow meeeeeoow mew meooow me m meeeeeoow

wit or flowing affability, of a delicate modesty or decent
mew me meeeoow meeoooooow, me m meooooow meeeeow me meeeow

genteelness of address and manner.
meeeeooooow me meoooow mew meeeow.




I am sensible, that nothing can be more unphilosophical than to
M me meooooow, meow meeooow mew me meow meeeeeeeeeoooow meow me

be positive or dogmatical on any subject; and that, even if
me meooooow me meeeeeeoow me mew meeeeow; mew meow, meow me

excessive scepticism could be maintained, it would not be more
meeeeeoow meeoooooow meoow me meeeeeeoow, me meeow mew me meow

destructive to all just reasoning and inquiry. I am convinced
meoooooooow me mew meow meeeeeeow mew meeeoow. M me meeooooow

that, where men are the most sure and arrogant, they are commonly
meow, meeow mew mew mew meow meow mew meeeeeow, meow mew meeeooow

the most mistaken, and have there given reins to passion, without
mew meow meeeeeow, mew meow meoow meoow meeow me meoooow, meeeeow

that proper deliberation and suspense, which can alone secure
meow meeoow meeeeeeeeeow mew meeeooow, meoow mew meoow meeoow

them from the grossest absurdities. Yet, I must confess, that
meow meow mew meeeooow meeeeeeooow. Mew, M meow meeeoow, meow

this enumeration puts the matter in so strong a light, that I
meow meeeeeeeoow meow mew meeoow me me meooow m meoow, meow M

cannot, at PRESENT, be more assured of any truth, which I learn
meooow, me MEEEEOW, me meow meoooow me mew meeow, meoow M meeow

from reasoning and argument, than that personal merit consists
meow meoooooow mew meeeooow, meow meow meeeooow meoow meeoooow

entirely in the usefulness or agreeableness of qualities to the
meeoooow me mew meeeeeooow me meeeeeeeeeeow me meeeeooow me mew

person himself possessed of them, or to others, who have any
meooow meeooow meeeoooow me meow, me me meooow, mew meow mew

intercourse with him. But when I reflect that, though the bulk
meeeeeeeoow meow mew. Mew meow M meeooow meow, meooow mew meow

and figure of the earth have been measured and delineated, though
mew meeoow me mew meeow meow meow meeeeoow mew meeoooooow, meooow

the motions of the tides have been accounted for, the order and
mew meeeeow me mew meeow meow meow meeooooow mew, mew meeow mew

economy of the heavenly bodies subjected to their proper laws,
meeeeow me mew meeeeoow meeeow meeeeeoow me meoow meeoow meow,

and Infinite itself reduced to calculation; yet men still dispute
mew Meeeooow meooow meeeeow me meeeeeeeeow; mew mew meeow meeeeow

concerning the foundation of their moral duties. When I reflect
meeeeeooow mew meeoooooow me meeow meoow meeoow. Meow M meeooow

on this, I say, I fall back into diffidence and scepticism, and
me meow, M mew, M meow meow meow meooooooow mew meeoooooow, mew

suspect that an hypothesis, so obvious, had it been a true one,
meoooow meow me meeeeeeoow, me meeeoow, mew me meow m meow mew,

would, long ere now, have been received by the unanimous suffrage
meoow, meow mew mew, meow meow meeeeeow me mew meeooooow meeoooow

and consent of mankind.
mew meeeoow me meeeoow.










PART II.
MEOW ME.










Having explained the moral APPROBATION attending merit or virtue,
Meeoow meeeeooow mew meoow MEEEOOOOOOW meoooooow meoow me meeeow,

there remains nothing but briefly to consider our interested
meoow meeeeow meeeoow mew meeooow me meeeooow mew meeeeeeeow

OBLIGATION to it, and to inquire whether every man, who has any
MEEOOOOOOW me me, mew me meoooow meeeeow meoow mew, mew mew mew

regard to his own happiness and welfare, will not best find his
meeeow me mew mew meeeeooow mew meeooow, meow mew meow meow mew

account in the practice of every moral duty. If this can be
meeeeow me mew meeoooow me meeow meeow meow. Me meow mew me

clearly ascertained from the foregoing theory, we shall have the
meeeeow meoooooooow meow mew meeooooow meeeow, me meeow meow mew

satisfaction to reflect, that we have advanced principles, which
meeeeeeoooow me meoooow, meow me meow meeeooow meeeooooow, meeow

not only, it is hoped, will stand the test of reasoning and
mew meow, me me meeow, meow meeow mew meow me meeooooow mew

inquiry, but may contribute to the amendment of men's lives, and
meoooow, mew mew meooooooow me mew meeeeeeow me mew'm meeow, mew

their improvement in morality and social virtue. And though the
meoow meeeeeeooow me meooooow mew meeeow meeeow. Mew meooow mew

philosophical truth of any proposition by no means depends on its
meeeeeeooooow meoow me mew meeeeeoooow me me meoow meeeeow me mew

tendency to promote the interests of society; yet a man has but a
meeeeeow me meeeoow mew meeeoooow me meoooow; mew m mew mew mew m

bad grace, who delivers a theory, however true, which, he must
mew meoow, mew meeeeeow m meooow, meeooow meow, meeow, me meow

confess, leads to a practice dangerous and pernicious. Why rake
meeeeow, meeow me m meeeeoow meeeeeoow mew meeeooooow. Mew meow

into those corners of nature which spread a nuisance all around?
meow meeow meeeoow me meeeow meeow meeeow m meeeooow mew meeeow?

Why dig up the pestilence from the pit in which it is buried? The
Mew mew me mew meooooooow meow mew mew me meoow me me meeeow? Mew

ingenuity of your researches may be admired, but your systems
meeeeeeow me meow meooooooow mew me meeooow, mew meow meoooow

will be detested; and mankind will agree, if they cannot refute
meow me meooooow; mew meeeeow meow meoow, me meow meooow meeoow

them, to sink them, at least, in eternal silence and oblivion.
meow, me meow meow, me meeow, me meoooow meeooow mew meeeooow.

Truths which are pernicious to society, if any such there be,
Meeoow meeow mew meooooooow me meeeeow, me mew meow meoow me,

will yield to errors which are salutary and ADVANTAGEOUS.
meow meoow me meooow meeow mew meooooow mew MEEEEEEEEOOW.




But what philosophical truths can be more advantageous to
Mew meow meeooooooooow meeeow mew me meow meooooooooow me

society, than those here delivered, which represent virtue in all
meeeeow, meow meeow meow meeooooow, meoow meoooooow meeoow me mew

her genuine and most engaging charms, and makes us approach her
mew meeeeow mew meow meeoooow meooow, mew meoow me meooooow mew

with ease, familiarity, and affection? The dismal dress falls
meow meow, meeeeooooow, mew meeeoooow? Mew meeoow meoow meeow

off, with which many divines, and some philosophers, have covered
mew, meow meeow meow meeeoow, mew meow meeeooooooow, meow meoooow

her; and nothing appears but gentleness, humanity, beneficence,
mew; mew meeeoow meeeoow mew meeeooooow, meeeeoow, meeeeeeooow,

affability; nay, even at proper intervals, play, frolic, and
meeeeeeeow; mew, meow me meeeow meeeeeeow, meow, meeoow, mew

gaiety. She talks not of useless austerities and rigours,
meeeow. Mew meeow mew me meeeeow meeeeeeooow mew meoooow,

suffering and self-denial. She declares that her sole purpose is
meeeoooow mew meow-meooow. Mew meeeeoow meow mew meow meeeeow me

to make her votaries and all mankind, during every instant of
me meow mew meeeeeow mew mew meeeoow, meeeow meeow meeeoow me

their existence, if possible, cheerful and happy; nor does she
meeow meeeeeeow, me meeoooow, meooooow mew meoow; mew meow mew

ever willingly part with any pleasure but in hopes of ample
meow meeeoooow meow meow mew meeoooow mew me meoow me meoow

compensation in some other period of their lives. The sole
meeeeoooooow me meow meoow meeoow me meoow meoow. Mew meow

trouble which she demands, is that of just calculation, and a
meeeeow meeow mew meoooow, me meow me meow meeeeeeeoow, mew m

steady preference of the greater happiness. And if any austere
meooow meeeooooow me mew meeeeow meeeeooow. Mew me mew meeeeow

pretenders approach her, enemies to joy and pleasure, she either
meeeeeooow meeeeeow mew, meeeeow me mew mew meooooow, mew meeeow

rejects them as hypocrites and deceivers; or, if she admit them
meoooow meow me meeeeeooow mew meoooooow; me, me mew meeow meow

in her train, they are ranked, however, among the least favoured
me mew meoow, meow mew meeoow, meeooow, meoow mew meoow meeeeoow

of her votaries.
me mew meeeeeow.




And, indeed, to drop all figurative expression, what hopes can we
Mew, meeoow, me meow mew meooooooow meeeeeooow, meow meoow mew me

ever have of engaging mankind to a practice which we confess full
meow meow me meeeeeow meoooow me m meeoooow meoow me meeeeow meow

of austerity and rigour? Or what theory of morals can ever serve
me meeeoooow mew meeeow? Me meow meooow me meeeow mew meow meoow

any useful purpose, unless it can show, by a particular detail,
mew meeeow meeooow, meooow me mew meow, me m meooooooow meeeow,

that all the duties which it recommends, are also the true
meow mew mew meeoow meoow me meeeeeooow, mew meow mew meow

interest of each individual? The peculiar advantage of the
meeeooow me meow meeeeoooow? Mew meeoooow meeeeooow me mew

foregoing system seems to be, that it furnishes proper mediums
meeeeeoow meeeow meeow me me, meow me meeeoooow meeoow meoooow

for that purpose.
mew meow meoooow.




That the virtues which are immediately USEFUL or AGREEABLE to the
Meow mew meeeoow meeow mew meeeeeeooow MEEOOW me MEEEOOOOW me mew

person possessed of them, are desirable in a view to self-interest,
meeoow meeeoooow me meow, mew meeooooow me m meow me meow-meooooow,

it would surely be superfluous to prove. Moralists, indeed, may
me meeow meeoow me meeeeeoooow me meeow. Meeooooow, meooow, mew

spare themselves all the pains which they often take in
meoow meeeeeooow mew mew meoow meeow meow meeow meow me

recommending these duties. To what purpose collect arguments to
meeeooooooow meeow meeoow. Me meow meeooow meoooow meoooooow me

evince that temperance is advantageous, and the excesses of
meeoow meow meeeooooow me meeeeeooooow, mew mew meeoooow me

pleasure hurtful, when it appears that these excesses are only
meeoooow meoooow, meow me meeeoow meow meoow meeoooow mew meow

denominated such, because they are hurtful; and that, if the
meeeeooooow meow, meeeoow meow mew meoooow; mew meow, me mew

unlimited use of strong liquors, for instance, no more impaired
meeeeeoow mew me meeoow meeeoow, mew meeeeoow, me meow meooooow

health or the faculties of mind and body than the use of air or
meeoow me mew meeeeeoow me meow mew meow meow mew mew me mew me

water, it would not be a whit more vicious or blameable?
meeow, me meeow mew me m meow meow meoooow me meeeeeoow?




It seems equally superfluous to prove, that the COMPANIONABLE
Me meoow meeeoow meeeoooooow me meeow, meow mew MEEEEOOOOOOOW

virtues of good manners and wit, decency and genteelness, are
meoooow me meow meoooow mew mew, meeooow mew meeeoooooow, mew

more desirable than the contrary qualities. Vanity alone, without
meow meeooooow meow mew meooooow meeeeeeow. Meooow meoow, meeooow

any other consideration, is a sufficient motive to make us wish
mew meoow meeeeeoooooow, me m meeeooooow meooow me meow me meow

for the possession of these accomplishments. No man was ever
mew mew meooooooow me meeow meeeeeeeeeeeoow. Me mew mew meow

willingly deficient in this particular. All our failures here
meeeeooow meeooooow me meow meeoooooow. Mew mew meeeeeow meow

proceed from bad education, want of capacity, or a perverse and
meeeeow meow mew meeeeeeow, meow me meooooow, me m meeeeeow mew

unpliable disposition. Would you have your company coveted,
meeeoooow meeooooooow. Meeow mew meow meow meeeoow meeeoow,

admired, followed; rather than hated, despised, avoided? Can any
meoooow, meeeooow; meeoow meow meoow, meeoooow, meoooow? Mew mew

one seriously deliberate in the case? As no enjoyment is sincere,
mew meoooooow meeeeoooow me mew meow? Me me meeooooow me meeeoow,

without some reference to company and society; so no society can
meeeoow meow meoooooow me meeooow mew meeeoow; me me meoooow mew

be agreeable, or even tolerable, where a man feels his presence
me meeeeeeow, me meow meeeeeoow, meoow m mew meeow mew meooooow

unwelcome, and discovers all around him symptoms of disgust and
meoooooow, mew meeooooow mew meeeow mew meeeeeow me meeeoow mew

aversion.
meeoooow.




But why, in the greater society or confederacy of mankind, should
Mew mew, me mew meeooow meeeeow me meeeoooooow me meeooow, meeeow

not the case be the same as in particular clubs and companies?
mew mew meow me mew meow me me meeeeeeeow meoow mew meoooooow?

Why is it more doubtful, that the enlarged virtues of humanity,
Mew me me meow meeoooow, meow mew meeeeoow meeooow me meeoooow,

generosity, beneficence, are desirable with a view of happiness
meeeeeeoow, meeeeeeeoow, mew meoooooow meow m meow me meeeeooow

and self-interest, than the limited endowments of ingenuity and
mew meow-meeoooow, meow mew meeeoow meeoooooow me meeeeeoow mew

politeness? Are we apprehensive lest those social affections
meeeeoooow? Mew me meooooooooow meow meeow meooow meeeooooow

interfere, in a greater and more immediate degree than any other
meeooooow, me m meoooow mew meow meeeeeeow meooow meow mew meoow

pursuits, with private utility, and cannot be gratified, without
meeoooow, meow meeeeow meeeeow, mew meeoow me meeeeooow, meeooow

some important sacrifice of honour and advantage? If so, we are
meow meeeeeeow meoooooow me meooow mew meeeoooow? Me me, me mew

but ill-instructed in the nature of the human passions, and are
mew mew-meeoooooow me mew meeeow me mew meoow meeeeeow, mew mew

more influenced by verbal distinctions than by real differences.
meow meeeeeooow me meeeow meeoooooooow meow me meow meeeeeeeoow.




Whatever contradiction may vulgarly be supposed between the
Meeeeeow meeooooooooow mew meeeeoow me meeeeeow meeeeow mew

SELFISH and SOCIAL sentiments or dispositions, they are really no
MEOOOOW mew MEEOOW meeeeeeoow me meeeeeooooow, meow mew meeoow me

more opposite than selfish and ambitious, selfish and revengeful,
meow meeeooow meow meeooow mew meeeeooow, meeooow mew meeeeeeeow,

selfish and vain. It is requisite that there be an original
meeooow mew meow. Me me meeeoooow meow meeow me me meeeooow

propensity of some kind, in order to be a basis to self-love, by
meeeeeeeow me meow meow, me meeow me me m meeow me meow-meow, me

giving a relish to the objects of its pursuit; and none more fit
meeoow m meeoow me mew meeeeow me mew meeeoow; mew meow meow mew

for this purpose than benevolence or humanity. The goods of
mew meow meeeeow meow meeeeeoooow me meeeeeow. Mew meeow me

fortune are spent in one gratification or another: the miser who
meeooow mew meoow me mew meoooooooooow me meoooow: mew meoow mew

accumulates his annual income, and lends it out at interest, has
meeeeeeeeow mew meooow meooow, mew meeow me mew me meooooow, mew

really spent it in the gratification of his avarice. And it would
meooow meoow me me mew meeeeeeooooow me mew meeeoow. Mew me meeow

be difficult to show why a man is more a loser by a generous
me meoooooow me meow mew m mew me meow m meoow me m meooooow

action, than by any other method of expense; since the utmost
meeoow, meow me mew meoow meeeow me meoooow; meoow mew meooow

which he can attain by the most elaborate selfishness, is the
meoow me mew meooow me mew meow meeeoooow meeeeooooow, me mew

indulgence of some affection.
meooooooow me meow meeeeooow.




Now if life, without passion, must be altogether insipid and
Mew me meow, meeeoow meeeeow, meow me meeeeeooow meoooow mew

tiresome; let a man suppose that he has full power of modelling
meeeeoow; mew m mew meeeoow meow me mew meow meeow me meeeeooow

his own disposition, and let him deliberate what appetite or
mew mew meeeeeeooow, mew mew mew meooooooow meow meeoooow me

desire he would choose for the foundation of his happiness and
meeeow me meeow meeeow mew mew meeeeeeeow me mew meoooooow mew

enjoyment. Every affection, he would observe, when gratified by
meeeeooow. Meoow meeeeooow, me meeow meeeoow, meow meeooooow me

success, gives a satisfaction proportioned to its force and
meeeeow, meoow m meeeeeeeeoow meeeeeeoooow me mew meeow mew

violence; but besides this advantage, common to all, the
meooooow; mew meeeeow meow meeeoooow, meooow me mew, mew

immediate feeling of benevolence and friendship, humanity and
meeeeooow meeeoow me meoooooooow mew meeeooooow, meooooow mew

kindness, is sweet, smooth, tender, and agreeable, independent of
meeeeoow, me meeow, meooow, meeoow, mew meeeeeeow, meeeeeeooow me

all fortune and accidents. These virtues are besides attended
mew meeeoow mew meeeeooow. Meeow meeeeow mew meeeoow meeoooow

with a pleasing consciousness or remembrance, and keep us in
meow m meeeooow meeeeeeooooow me meeooooooow, mew meow me me

humour with ourselves as well as others; while we
meeeow meow meeeeeoow me meow me meeeow; meoow me




retain the agreeable reflection of having done our part towards
meooow mew meeeeooow meeeeeeeow me meooow meow mew meow meoooow

mankind and society. And though all men show a jealousy of our
meeeeow mew meeeoow. Mew meeeow mew mew meow m meeoooow me mew

success in the pursuits of avarice and ambition; yet are we
meeeoow me mew meeeeoow me meeeeow mew meeeeoow; mew mew me

almost sure of their good-will and good wishes, so long as we
meooow meow me meoow meow-meow mew meow meeeow, me meow me me

persevere in the paths of virtue, and employ ourselves in the
meeooooow me mew meoow me meooow, mew meooow meeeeeoow me mew

execution of generous plans and purposes. What other passion is
meeeoooow me meeeeoow meoow mew meeeeeow. Meow meoow meeeeow me

there where we shall find so many advantages united; an agreeable
meeow meeow me meeow meow me meow meeoooooow meooow; me meoooooow

sentiment, a pleasing consciousness, a good reputation? But of
meeeeooow, m meeeeoow meeooooooooow, m meow meeeeeooow? Mew me

these truths, we may observe, men are, of themselves, pretty much
meeow meeoow, me mew meeeoow, mew mew, me meooooooow, meeeow meow

convinced; nor are they deficient in their duty to society,
meeeeeeow; mew mew meow meoooooow me meeow meow me meeeoow,

because they would not wish to be generous, friendly, and humane;
meeeeow meow meeow mew meow me me meeeeeow, meeeeeow, mew meooow;

but because they do not feel themselves such.
mew meoooow meow me mew meow meeoooooow meow.




Treating vice with the greatest candour, and making it all
Meeoooow meow meow mew meeeooow meeeeow, mew meeoow me mew

possible concessions, we must acknowledge that there is not, in
meeeeeow meeeeeeeoow, me meow meeooooooow meow meoow me mew, me

any instance, the smallest pretext for giving it the preference
mew meeeeeow, mew meooooow meeooow mew meeeow me mew meooooooow

above virtue, with a view of self-interest; except, perhaps, in
meoow meeoow, meow m meow me meow-meooooow; meooow, meeeoow, me

the case of justice, where a man, taking things in a certain
mew meow me meoooow, meoow m mew, meeoow meeeow me m meoooow

light, may often seem to be a loser by his integrity. And though
meeow, mew meeow meow me me m meeow me mew meeeeeeow. Mew meeeow

it is allowed that, without a regard to property, no society
me me meeooow meow, meeooow m meeeow me meeoooow, me meeooow

could subsist; yet according to the imperfect way in which human
meeow meeeoow; mew meeeoooow me mew meeeeeoow mew me meoow meoow

affairs are conducted, a sensible knave, in particular incidents,
meeeoow mew meoooooow, m meooooow meoow, me meeeooooow meeooooow,

may think that an act of iniquity or infidelity will make a
mew meeow meow me mew me meeeeoow me meeeeeeeow meow meow m

considerable addition to his fortune, without causing any
meeeeoooooow meeeeoow me mew meeooow, meeeoow meeooow mew

considerable breach in the social union and confederacy. That
meooooooooow meeeow me mew meeeow meoow mew meeeoooooow. Meow

HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY, may be a good general rule, but is
MEEEOOW ME MEW MEOW MEEOOW, mew me m meow meeeeow meow, mew me

liable to many exceptions; and he, it may perhaps be thought,
meeeow me meow meeeooooow; mew me, me mew meoooow me meeooow,

conducts himself with most wisdom, who observes the general rule,
meeoooow meeooow meow meow meooow, mew meeeeoow mew meeeoow meow,

and takes advantage of all the exceptions. I must confess that,
mew meoow meeeeooow me mew mew meeeeeeeow. M meow meeeoow meow,

if a man think that this reasoning much requires an answer, it
me m mew meeow meow meow meeeeeoow meow meeeeoow me meeeow, me

would be a little difficult to find any which will to him appear
meoow me m meooow meeeeeeow me meow mew meoow meow me mew meeeow

satisfactory and convincing. If his heart rebel not against such
meeeeeeoooow mew meooooooow. Me mew meoow meeow mew meeooow meow

pernicious maxims, if he feel no reluctance to the thoughts of
meooooooow meeoow, me me meow me meeeeeeeow me mew meeeooow me

villainy or baseness, he has indeed lost a considerable motive to
meooooow me meooooow, me mew meooow meow m meeeeeooooow meooow me

virtue; and we may expect that this practice will be answerable
meooow; mew me mew meeeow meow meow meeeeeow meow me meeeeeeeow

to his speculation. But in all ingenuous natures, the antipathy
me mew meeooooooow. Mew me mew meeeeeoow meoooow, mew meeeeooow

to treachery and roguery is too strong to be counter-balanced by
me meeeeeeow mew meeooow me mew meeoow me me meoooow-meeeooow me

any views of profit or pecuniary advantage. Inward peace of mind,
mew meeow me meeoow me meoooooow meeeoooow. Meeoow meeow me meow,

consciousness of integrity, a satisfactory review of our own
meeeeeoooooow me meeeeeoow, m meeeooooooow meooow me mew mew

conduct; these are circumstances, very requisite to happiness,
meeeoow; meoow mew meeeeooooooow, meow meeeoooow me meeeeeeow,

and will be cherished and cultivated by every honest man, who
mew meow me meeeeeeow mew meeeeeeoow me meoow meeoow mew, mew

feels the importance of them.
meoow mew meeeeeeeow me meow.




Such a one has, besides, the frequent satisfaction of seeing
Meow m mew mew, meeooow, mew meeeooow meeeeeeoooow me meooow

knaves, with all their pretended cunning and abilities, betrayed
meeeow, meow mew meoow meoooooow meeooow mew meeeoooow, meeeeeow

by their own maxims; and while they purpose to cheat with
me meoow mew meeeow; mew meeow meow meeeoow me meoow meow

moderation and secrecy, a tempting incident occurs, nature is
meeeeeooow mew meeooow, m meeoooow meeeeoow meeeow, meooow me

frail, and they give into the snare; whence they can never
meoow, mew meow meow meow mew meeow; meooow meow mew meeow

extricate themselves, without a total loss of reputation, and the
meeeeeoow meooooooow, meoooow m meoow meow me meeoooooow, mew mew

forfeiture of all future trust and confidence with mankind.
meeeeeeoow me mew meeeow meoow mew meooooooow meow meeooow.




But were they ever so secret and successful, the honest man, if
Mew meow meow meow me meeoow mew meeeeeeoow, mew meeeow mew, me

he has any tincture of philosophy, or even common observation and
me mew mew meeeooow me meeeeeeoow, me meow meeeow meeooooooow mew

reflection, will discover that they themselves are, in the end,
meeeeeooow, meow meeeeoow meow meow meeeeeooow mew, me mew mew,

the greatest dupes, and have sacrificed the invaluable enjoyment
mew meeoooow meeow, mew meow meeeeeeeow mew meooooooow meeeeeeow

of a character, with themselves at least, for the acquisition of
me m meeooooow, meow meooooooow me meeow, mew mew meeeeeeeeow me

worthless toys and gewgaws. How little is requisite to supply the
meeeeooow meow mew meeeoow. Mew meeoow me meeooooow me meooow mew

necessities of nature? And in a view to pleasure, what comparison
meeeeeeooow me meeoow? Mew me m meow me meeeeoow, meow meeeooooow

between the unbought satisfaction of conversation, society,
meeeeow mew meeoooow meeeeoooooow me meeeooooooow, meeeeow,

study, even health and the common beauties of nature, but above
meoow, meow meeoow mew mew meooow meeeeeow me meooow, mew meeow

all the peaceful reflection on one's own conduct; what
mew mew meeeeeow meeeeeeoow me mew'm mew meoooow; meow

comparison, I say, between these and the feverish, empty
meeeeeooow, M mew, meeeeow meoow mew mew meooooow, meeow

amusements of luxury and expense? These natural pleasures,
meeeeoooow me meeoow mew meeooow? Meeow meeeoow meeeeeoow,

indeed, are really without price; both because they are below all
meeoow, mew meeeow meeeoow meoow; meow meoooow meow mew meeow mew

price in their attainment, and above it in their enjoyment.
meoow me meoow meeeooooow, mew meoow me me meoow meeeeeeow.










APPENDIX I.
MEEEOOOW M.




CONCERNING MORAL SENTIMENT
MEEEOOOOOW MEOOW MEEOOOOOW










IF the foregoing hypothesis be received, it will now be easy for
ME mew meeeeeoow meeeeeooow me meooooow, me meow mew me meow mew

us to determine the question first started, [FOOTNOTE: Sect. 1.]
me me meeeoooow mew meeeooow meeow meeeeow, [MEEOOOOW: Meow. m.]

concerning the general principles of morals; and though we
meeeeeeeow mew meeeeow meeeeeeeow me meooow; mew meeeow me

postponed the decision of that question, lest it should then
meeooooow mew meeeeoow me meow meooooow, meow me meeeow meow

involve us in intricate speculations, which are unfit for moral
meoooow me me meeeoooow meooooooooow, meeow mew meeow mew meoow

discourses, we may resume it at present, and examine how far
meeeeeooow, me mew meeoow me me meeeeow, mew meeeoow mew mew

either REASON or SENTIMENT enters into all decisions of praise or
meooow MEEOOW me MEEOOOOOW meeeow meow mew meoooooow me meeoow me

censure.
meoooow.




One principal foundation of moral praise being supposed to lie in
Mew meoooooow meeeooooow me meeow meeoow meoow meeeeeow me mew me

the usefulness of any quality or action, it is evident that
mew meeeooooow me mew meeeoow me meeoow, me me meoooow meow

REASON must enter for a considerable share in all decisions of
MEEOOW meow meoow mew m meeeeeeoooow meeow me mew meoooooow me

this kind; since nothing but that faculty can instruct us in the
meow meow; meeow meoooow mew meow meoooow mew meooooow me me mew

tendency of qualities and actions, and point out their beneficial
meooooow me meeooooow mew meeeeow, mew meeow mew meeow meeeeeeeow

consequences to society and to their possessor. In many cases
meeeeeeoooow me meeooow mew me meeow meeeeeoow. Me meow meoow

this is an affair liable to great controversy: doubts may arise;
meow me me meooow meeoow me meeow meeeeeeooow: meeeow mew meoow;

opposite interests may occur; and a preference must be given to
meooooow meoooooow mew meoow; mew m meeeeeooow meow me meoow me

one side, from very nice views, and a small overbalance of
mew meow, meow meow meow meoow, mew m meeow meeeeeoooow me

utility. This is particularly remarkable in questions with regard
meeeoow. Meow me meeeeeeeeeow meooooooow me meeeeooow meow meeeow

to justice; as is, indeed, natural to suppose, from that species
me meoooow; me me, meeeow, meeeeow me meeeoow, meow meow meoooow

of utility which attends this virtue [Footnote: See App. II.].
me meeeeow meeow meoooow meow meooow [Meeeooow: Mew Mew. ME.].

Were every single instance of justice, like that of benevolence,
Meow meeow meeeow meeeeoow me meoooow, meow meow me meeeeeeooow,

useful to society; this would be a more simple state of the case,
meooow me meeeeow; meow meoow me m meow meeeow meeow me mew meow,

and seldom liable to great controversy. But as single instances
mew meeoow meeoow me meoow meeeeeeeeow. Mew me meeoow meeeoooow

of justice are often pernicious in their first and immediate
me meoooow mew meeow meeeeoooow me meoow meeow mew meeooooow

tendency, and as the advantage to society results only from the
meeeooow, mew me mew meeeoooow me meeeoow meoooow meow meow mew

observance of the general rule, and from the concurrence and
meeeeeeoow me mew meeeoow meow, mew meow mew meeeeeeeoow mew

combination of several persons in the same equitable conduct; the
meeeeeeeoow me meeeeow meeeeow me mew meow meeeeooow meeeoow; mew

case here becomes more intricate and involved. The various
meow meow meoooow meow meeeeeeow mew meeeeeow. Mew meeeeow

circumstances of society; the various consequences of any
meeeeooooooow me meeooow; mew meoooow meeoooooooow me mew

practice; the various interests which may be proposed; these, on
meeeeoow; mew meoooow meeooooow meoow mew me meeoooow; meeow, me

many occasions, are doubtful, and subject to great discussion and
meow meoooooow, mew meeeeeow, mew meeooow me meeow meeeooooow mew

inquiry. The object of municipal laws is to fix all the questions
meeooow. Mew meooow me meeeeeoow meow me me mew mew mew meeeoooow

with regard to justice: the debates of civilians; the reflections
meow meeoow me meeeoow: mew meeooow me meeeeeoow; mew meeeoooooow

of politicians; the precedents of history and public records, are
me meeooooooow; mew meeeeoooow me meeeeow mew meooow meeooow, mew

all directed to the same purpose. And a very accurate REASON or
mew meeeooow me mew meow meeeeow. Mew m meow meeeeoow MEEEOW me

JUDGEMENT is often requisite, to give the true determination,
MEEEEEEOW me meoow meeeeeeow, me meow mew meow meeeeeeooooow,

amidst such intricate doubts arising from obscure or opposite
meeoow meow meeeeeoow meeoow meeeeow meow meeeoow me meeeeeow

utilities.
meeeeooow.




But though reason, when fully assisted and improved, be
Mew meeeow meeoow, meow meeow meeeeeow mew meeeooow, me

sufficient to instruct us in the pernicious or useful tendency of
meeeeeooow me meeoooow me me mew meeoooooow me meeoow meeoooow me

qualities and actions; it is not alone sufficient to produce any
meoooooow mew meeeoow; me me mew meeow meooooooow me meeeeow mew

moral blame or approbation. Utility is only a tendency to a
meoow meoow me meeeoooooow. Meoooow me meow m meeeeeow me m

certain end; and were the end totally indifferent to us, we
meeeoow mew; mew meow mew mew meoooow meeeeeeeoow me me, me

should feel the same indifference towards the means. It is
meooow meow mew meow meeeeeeoooow meeeoow mew meoow. Me me

requisite a SENTIMENT should here display itself, in order to
meeeeeeow m MEEEOOOOW meeoow meow meeeoow meeeow, me meoow me

give a preference to the useful above the pernicious tendencies.
meow m meeeeeooow me mew meooow meoow mew meeoooooow meeeeoooow.

This SENTIMENT can be no other than a feeling for the happiness
Meow MEEEOOOOW mew me me meeow meow m meeooow mew mew meeeeeoow

of mankind, and a resentment of their misery; since these are the
me meeeoow, mew m meeeooooow me meeow meeoow; meoow meeow mew mew

different ends which virtue and vice have a tendency to promote.
meeooooow meow meeow meeeow mew meow meow m meeeeeow me meeeoow.

Here therefore REASON instructs us in the several tendencies of
Meow meeeoooow MEEEOW meeeoooow me me mew meeeoow meeeeeeeow me

actions, and HUMANITY makes a distinction in favour of those
meeeoow, mew MEOOOOOW meoow m meeooooooow me meooow me meeow

which are useful and beneficial.
meeow mew meeoow mew meeeeeooow.




This partition between the faculties of understanding and
Meow meeeeeoow meeeoow mew meeeeooow me meeooooooooow mew

sentiment, in all moral decisions, seems clear from the preceding
meoooooow, me mew meoow meeeeeoow, meoow meeow meow mew meeeeooow

hypothesis. But I shall suppose that hypothesis false: it will
meeeeeeoow. Mew M meoow meeeoow meow meeeooooow meoow: me meow

then be requisite to look out for some other theory that may be
meow me meeeeeoow me meow mew mew meow meeow meeoow meow mew me

satisfactory; and I dare venture to affirm that none such will
meeeeeeeeeow; mew M meow meoooow me meeoow meow meow meow meow

ever be found, so long as we suppose reason to be the sole source
meow me meoow, me meow me me meeeeow meeoow me me mew meow meeoow

of morals. To prove this, it will be proper t o weigh the five
me meeoow. Me meoow meow, me meow me meooow m m meeow mew meow

following considerations.
meeeoooow meeeeeeeooooow.




I. It is easy for a false hypothesis to maintain some appearance
M. Me me meow mew m meeow meeeeeeoow me meeeeoow meow meooooooow

of truth, while it keeps wholly in generals, makes use of
me meoow, meoow me meeow meeoow me meeeooow, meeow mew me

undefined terms, and employs comparisons, instead of instances.
meeeeeeow meeow, mew meeooow meeeeooooow, meoooow me meeooooow.

This is particularly remarkable in that philosophy, which
Meow me meeeeoooooow meeeeoooow me meow meeeooooow, meeow

ascribes the discernment of all moral distinctions to reason
meeeeeow mew meeeeeeooow me mew meoow meeeeeeoooow me meeoow

alone, without the concurrence of sentiment. It is impossible
meeow, meeeeow mew meeeeooooow me meoooooow. Me me meeeeoooow

that, in any particular instance, this hypothesis can so much as
meow, me mew meeeeoooow meeeeeow, meow meeeooooow mew me meow me

be rendered intelligible, whatever specious figure it may make in
me meeeeoow meeeeeeoooow, meeoooow meooooow meeoow me mew meow me

general declamations and discourses. Examine the crime of
meeooow meeeooooooow mew meooooooow. Meeooow mew meeow me

INGRATITUDE, for instance; which has place, wherever we observe
MEEOOOOOOOW, mew meeeeoow; meoow mew meoow, meeeooow me meoooow

good-will, expressed and known, together with good-offices
meow-meow, meeeeeeow mew meeow, meooooow meow meow-meeooow

performed, on the one side, and a return of ill-will or
meeeeooow, me mew mew meow, mew m meeeow me mew-meow me

indifference, with ill-offices or neglect on the other: anatomize
meeoooooooow, meow mew-meoooow me meeeoow me mew meeow: meeeeeeow

all these circumstances, and examine, by your reason alone, in
mew meeow meeooooooooow, mew meeooow, me meow meeoow meoow, me

what consists the demerit or blame. You never will come to any
meow meooooow mew meeooow me meeow. Mew meeow meow meow me mew

issue or conclusion.
meeow me meeeeoooow.




Reason judges either of MATTER OF FACT or of RELATIONS. Enquire
Meeeow meeeow meeoow me MEOOOW ME MEOW me me MEOOOOOOW. Meeeeow

then, first, where is that matter of fact which we here call
meow, meeow, meeow me meow meooow me meow meoow me meow meow

crime; point it out; determine the time of its existence;
meeow; meeow me mew; meeeeeeow mew meow me mew meeeeooow;

describe its essence or nature; explain the sense or faculty to
meeeeoow mew meeeoow me meeeow; meeooow mew meeow me meeeeow me

which it discovers itself. It resides in the mind of the person
meoow me meeeeeeow meeeow. Me meeeoow me mew meow me mew meeoow

who is ungrateful. He must, therefore, feel it, and be conscious
mew me meeeooooow. Me meow, meeeeeeow, meow me, mew me meoooooow

of it. But nothing is there, except the passion of ill-will or
me me. Mew meoooow me meeow, meeeow mew meeeoow me mew-meow me

absolute indifference. You cannot say that these, of themselves,
meeeeoow meeeeeeoooow. Mew meooow mew meow meeow, me meeeeeeoow,

always, and in all circumstances, are crimes. No, they are only
meeoow, mew me mew meeeeeeeeooow, mew meeoow. Me, meow mew meow

crimes when directed towards persons who have before expressed
meooow meow meooooow meeooow meeooow mew meow meeeow meeeeooow

and displayed good-will towards us. Consequently, we may infer,
mew meeeeeeow meow-meow meoooow me. Meeeeeeeeoow, me mew meeow,

that the crime of ingratitude is not any particular individual
meow mew meeow me meeeeeeooow me mew mew meeeeoooow meeeeeooow

FACT; but arises from a complication of circumstances, which,
MEOW; mew meeeow meow m meeeeeeeeeow me meeeeooooooow, meeow,

being presented to the spectator, excites the SENTIMENT of blame,
meoow meeeeeoow me mew meeeeeoow, meoooow mew MEEOOOOOW me meeow,

by the particular structure and fabric of his mind.
me mew meooooooow meeeeooow mew meooow me mew meow.




This representation, you say, is false. Crime, indeed, consists
Meow meeeeeeeeeeoow, mew mew, me meeow. Meoow, meooow, meeeeeow

not in a particular FACT, of whose reality we are assured by
mew me m meeeeeeoow MEOW, me meoow meoooow me mew meoooow me

reason; but it consists in certain MORAL RELATIONS, discovered by
meooow; mew me meeeeoow me meoooow MEEOW MEEEEOOOW, meeeooooow me

reason, in the same manner as we discover by reason the truths of
meeoow, me mew meow meeoow me me meeeooow me meeoow mew meeoow me

geometry or algebra. But what are the relations, I ask, of which
meeoooow me meeeeow. Mew meow mew mew meeeeeoow, M mew, me meeow

you here talk? In the case stated above, I see first good-will
mew meow meow? Me mew meow meooow meeow, M mew meeow meow-meow

and good-offices in one person; then ill-will and ill-offices in
mew meow-meoooow me mew meeeow; meow mew-meow mew mew-meeeeow me

the other. Between these, there is a relation of CONTARIETY. Does
mew meeow. Meoooow meeow, meoow me m meeeeoow me MEEEOOOOOW. Meow

the crime consist in that relation? But suppose a person bore me
mew meeow meeooow me meow meeeooow? Mew meeeeow m meooow meow me

ill-will or did me ill-offices; and I, in return, were
mew-meow me mew me mew-meeeoow; mew M, me meooow, meow

indifferent towards him, or did him good offices. Here is the
meoooooooow meoooow mew, me mew mew meow meoooow. Meow me mew

same relation of CONTRARIETY; and yet my conduct is often highly
meow meooooow me MEEEEEEEEOW; mew mew me meeeoow me meeow meeeow

laudable. Twist and turn this matter as much as you will, you can
meeeooow. Meeow mew meow meow meeoow me meow me mew meow, mew mew

never rest the morality on relation; but must have recourse to
meoow meow mew meeoooow me meeeeoow; mew meow meow meeeeeow me

the decisions of sentiment.
mew meeooooow me meeeeeeow.




When it is affirmed that two and three are equal to the half of
Meow me me meeoooow meow mew mew meeow mew meoow me mew meow me

ten, this relation of equality I understand perfectly. I
mew, meow meeeooow me meeeooow M meeoooooow meeeeeeow. M

conceive, that if ten be divided into two parts, of which one has
meeeeoow, meow me mew me meoooow meow mew meoow, me meeow mew mew

as many units as the other; and if any of these parts be compared
me meow meoow me mew meoow; mew me mew me meeow meoow me meeeooow

to two added to three, it will contain as many units as that
me mew meeow me meoow, me meow meeeoow me meow meeow me meow

compound number. But when you draw thence a comparison to moral
meeeooow meooow. Mew meow mew meow meeeow m meeeooooow me meoow

relations, I own that I am altogether at a loss to understand
meeeoooow, M mew meow M me meeeeeeoow me m meow me meeeeeeoow

you. A moral action, a crime, such as ingratitude, is a
mew. M meoow meeoow, m meoow, meow me meoooooooow, me m

complicated object. Does the morality consist in the relation of
meeeeeoooow meooow. Meow mew meeeooow meeeoow me mew meeeeeow me

its parts to each other? How? After what manner? Specify the
mew meoow me meow meoow? Mew? Meoow meow meooow? Meeeeow mew

relation: be more particular and explicit in your propositions,
meeeeoow: me meow meeeeoooow mew meeoooow me meow meeeooooooow,

and you will easily see their falsehood.
mew mew meow meeeow mew meeow meeeeooow.




No, say you, the morality consists in the relation of actions to
Me, mew mew, mew meeoooow meeoooow me mew meeoooow me meeeoow me

the rule of right; and they are denominated good or ill,
mew meow me meeow; mew meow mew meeeeooooow meow me mew,

according as they agree or disagree with it. What then is this
meeeeeeow me meow meoow me meeoooow meow me. Meow meow me meow

rule of right? In what does it consist? How is it determined? By
meow me meoow? Me meow meow me meeooow? Mew me me meeeeoooow? Me

reason, you say, which examines the moral relations of actions.
meooow, mew mew, meeow meeeeeow mew meeow meeooooow me meeeoow.

So that moral relations are determined by the comparison of
Me meow meoow meoooooow mew meeeeeeoow me mew meeeeeooow me

action to a rule. And that rule is determined by considering the
meeeow me m meow. Mew meow meow me meeeooooow me meeeeooooow mew

moral relations of objects. Is not this fine reasoning?
meoow meoooooow me meeooow. Me mew meow meow meeeeooow?




All this is metaphysics, you cry. That is enough; there needs
Mew meow me meeeeooooow, mew mew. Meow me meeoow; meoow meoow

nothing more to give a strong presumption of falsehood. Yes,
meoooow meow me meow m meeeow meeeeeeeeow me meeeoooow. Mew,

reply I, here are metaphysics surely; but they are all on your
meoow M, meow mew meoooooooow meeeow; mew meow mew mew me meow

side, who advance an abstruse hypothesis, which can never be made
meow, mew meeeeow me meeoooow meeeeeeeow, meeow mew meeow me meow

intelligible, nor quadrate with any particular instance or
meooooooooow, mew meeeeeow meow mew meeeeoooow meeeeoow me

illustration. The hypothesis which we embrace is plain. It
meeeeeeeooow. Mew meeoooooow meeow me meoooow me meeow. Me

maintains that morality is determined by sentiment. It defines
meeooooow meow meeeeeow me meeeeeeoow me meeeeeeow. Me meeooow

virtue to be WHATEVER MENTAL ACTION OR QUALITY GIVES TO A
meeeow me me MEEEEOOW MEEEOW MEEEOW ME MEOOOOW MEOOW ME M

SPECTATOR THE PLEASING SENTIMENT OF APPROBATION; and vice the
MEEEOOOOW MEW MEEEOOOW MEEEEEOOW ME MEEEEEEEEOW; mew meow mew

contrary. We then proceed to examine a plain matter of fact, to
meeeooow. Me meow meoooow me meeeoow m meoow meeoow me meow, me

wit, what actions have this influence. We consider all the
mew, meow meeeoow meow meow meeeeooow. Me meeeeoow mew mew

circumstances in which these actions agree, and thence endeavour
meeeeeeeeeoow me meoow meoow meeooow meeow, mew meeoow meeeeooow

to extract some general observations with regard to these
me meeooow meow meeeeow meeeeeeoooow meow meeoow me meoow

sentiments. If you call this metaphysics, and find anything
meooooooow. Me mew meow meow meoooooooow, mew meow meeeooow

abstruse here, you need only conclude that your turn of mind is
meeoooow meow, mew meow meow meeoooow meow meow meow me meow me

not suited to the moral sciences.
mew meooow me mew meoow meeeooow.




II. When a man, at any time, deliberates concerning his own
ME. Meow m mew, me mew meow, meeooooooow meeoooooow mew mew

conduct (as, whether he had better, in a particular emergence,
meeeoow (me, meeooow me mew meeoow, me m meeeeeeeow meeeeooow,

assist a brother or a benefactor), he must consider these
meeoow m meeeoow me m meeoooooow), me meow meeeeoow meeow

separate relations, with all the circumstances and situations of
meooooow meeeeeeow, meow mew mew meeeeeeeeooow mew meeoooooow me

the persons, in order to determine the superior duty and
mew meeooow, me meeow me meoooooow mew meeeeeow meow mew

obligation; and in order to determine the proportion of lines in
meeeeeooow; mew me meeow me meeooooow mew meeeooooow me meeow me

any triangle, it is necessary to examine the nature of that
mew meooooow, me me meeeeeoow me meeooow mew meeeow me meow

figure, and the relation which its several parts bear to each
meeeow, mew mew meooooow meoow mew meoooow meeow meow me meow

other. But notwithstanding this appearing similarity in the two
meoow. Mew meeeeeeeeeeooow meow meeeeeeow meeeeeooow me mew mew

cases, there is, at bottom, an extreme difference between them. A
meoow, meoow me, me meeoow, me meoooow meooooooow meeeeow meow. M

speculative reasoner concerning triangles or circles considers
meeeeeoooow meooooow meeeeeeeow meoooooow me meeooow meeeeeeow

the several known and given relations of the parts of these
mew meeeeow meeow mew meeow meeeeeeow me mew meeow me meeow

figures; and thence infers some unknown relation, which is
meeeoow; mew meeeow meooow meow meoooow meeeeeow, meeow me

dependent on the former. But in moral deliberations we must be
meeeoooow me mew meeeow. Mew me meeow meeeeeeeeeeow me meow me

acquainted beforehand with all the objects, and all their
meeeeoooow meeeeoooow meow mew mew meoooow, mew mew meeow

relations to each other; and from a comparison of the whole, fix
meoooooow me meow meoow; mew meow m meeoooooow me mew meeow, mew

our choice or approbation. No new fact to be ascertained; no new
mew meeeow me meeooooooow. Me mew meow me me meeeeeeeoow; me mew

relation to be discovered. All the circumstances of the case are
meeeeeow me me meeoooooow. Mew mew meeeeeeeeooow me mew meow mew

supposed to be laid before us, ere we can fix any sentence of
meeeeeow me me meow meooow me, mew me mew mew mew meeeooow me

blame or approbation. If any material circumstance be yet unknown
meeow me meoooooooow. Me mew meeoooow meeeeeeeooow me mew meeooow

or doubtful, we must first employ our inquiry or intellectual
me meeeeeow, me meow meeow meooow mew meeeeow me meeeeeeoooow

faculties to assure us of it; and must suspend for a time all
meoooooow me meeoow me me me; mew meow meeeeow mew m meow mew

moral decision or sentiment. While we are ignorant whether a man
meoow meeoooow me meeeoooow. Meeow me mew meeeeoow meeeoow m mew

were aggressor or not, how can we determine whether the person
meow meeeoooow me mew, mew mew me meeeeooow meeooow mew meeeow

who killed him be criminal or innocent? But after every
mew meeeow mew me meeeeeow me meeeeoow? Mew meeow meoow

circumstance, every relation is known, the understanding has no
meeeeeeoooow, meoow meeeeoow me meeow, mew meeeeeeeeooow mew me

further room to operate, nor any object on which it could employ
meeeoow meow me meoooow, mew mew meooow me meoow me meoow meooow

itself. The approbation or blame which then ensues, cannot be the
meeoow. Mew meeeeooooow me meoow meoow meow meeoow, meeeow me mew

work of the judgement, but of the heart; and is not a speculative
meow me mew meeeeooow, mew me mew meeow; mew me mew m meoooooooow

proposition or affirmation, but an active feeling or sentiment.
meeeeeeeoow me meeeeeeeeow, mew me meeoow meoooow me meeeeeeow.

In the disquisitions of the understanding, from known
Me mew meeeeeeeeeeow me mew meeeoooooooow, meow meoow

circumstances and relations, we infer some new and unknown. In
meeeeeeeeeoow mew meeeeeoow, me meeow meow mew mew meeooow. Me

moral decisions, all the circumstances and relations must be
meoow meeooooow, mew mew meeeeooooooow mew meeeeooow meow me

previously known; and the mind, from the contemplation of the
meooooooow meoow; mew mew meow, meow mew meoooooooooow me mew

whole, feels some new impression of affection or disgust, esteem
meeow, meoow meow mew meeeeeooow me meoooooow me meeeoow, meooow

or contempt, approbation or blame.
me meeeooow, meeeeeeooow me meoow.




Hence the great difference between a mistake of FACT and one of
Meeow mew meeow meeeeeeeow meeeoow m meeeeow me MEOW mew mew me

RIGHT; and hence the reason why the one is commonly criminal and
MEOOW; mew meoow mew meeeow mew mew mew me meeeooow meeeooow mew

not the other. When Oedipus killed Laius, he was ignorant of the
mew mew meoow. Meow Meoooow meeoow Meeow, me mew meeeeeow me mew

relation, and from circumstances, innocent and involuntary,
meeoooow, mew meow meeeeeeeeooow, meeeooow mew meeeoooooow,

formed erroneous opinions concerning the action which he
meeeow meeeeeeow meeeooow meeeeeeoow mew meooow meoow me

committed. But when Nero killed Agrippina, all the relations
meeooooow. Mew meow Meow meooow Meeooooow, mew mew meeeoooow

between himself and the person, and all the circumstances of the
meeeeow meeooow mew mew meooow, mew mew mew meeeeeoooooow me mew

fact, were previously known to him; but the motive of revenge, or
meow, meow meeeeeooow meoow me mew; mew mew meeeow me meeeoow, me

fear, or interest, prevailed in his savage heart over the
meow, me meeeeeow, meeeeooow me mew meeeow meeow meow mew

sentiments of duty and humanity. And when we express that
meeeeoooow me meow mew meeeooow. Mew meow me meoooow meow

detestation against him to which he himself, in a little time,
meeeeooooow meeeeow mew me meeow me meeeoow, me m meeoow meow,

became insensible, it is not that we see any relations, of which
meeeow meeoooooow, me me mew meow me mew mew meeeeeeow, me meoow

he was ignorant; but that, for the rectitude of our disposition,
me mew meeeeeow; mew meow, mew mew meeooooow me mew meeeeeoooow,

we feel sentiments against which he was hardened from flattery
me meow meeeeeeoow meeooow meeow me mew meooooow meow meeeeoow

and a long perseverance in the most enormous crimes.
mew m meow meeeeoooooow me mew meow meeeeeow meooow.




In these sentiments then, not in a discovery of relations of any
Me meeow meeeeeeoow meow, mew me m meoooooow me meoooooow me mew

kind, do all moral determinations consist. Before we can pretend
meow, me mew meoow meeeooooooooow meoooow. Meeoow me mew meoooow

to form any decision of this kind, everything must be known and
me meow mew meeeeeow me meow meow, meeoooooow meow me meeow mew

ascertained on the side of the object or action. Nothing remains
meoooooooow me mew meow me mew meeeow me meeoow. Meeooow meeeoow

but to feel, on our part, some sentiment of blame or approbation;
mew me meow, me mew meow, meow meeeeooow me meoow me meeeeeeeoow;

whence we pronounce the action criminal or virtuous.
meeoow me meeeeooow mew meooow meeoooow me meooooow.




III. This doctrine will become still more evident, if we compare
MEW. Meow meeeeoow meow meeeow meoow meow meeeeow, me me meeeoow

moral beauty with natural, to which in many particulars it bears
meoow meeeow meow meeeeow, me meoow me meow meoooooooow me meoow

so near a resemblance. It is on the proportion, relation, and
me meow m meeeoooooow. Me me me mew meeeeeooow, meeeeeow, mew

position of parts, that all natural beauty depends; but it would
meeeeeow me meeow, meow mew meeeoow meeeow meeeeow; mew me meeow

be absurd thence to infer, that the perception of beauty, like
me meeeow meeeow me meoow, meow mew meeeeeooow me meooow, meow

that of truth in geometrical problems, consists wholly in the
meow me meeow me meeeeeeooow meooooow, meooooow meeoow me mew

perception of relations, and was performed entirely by the
meeeeeooow me meoooooow, mew mew meeeeeeow meeeeoow me mew

understanding or intellectual faculties. In all the sciences, our
meeeeeoooooow me meeeeeooooow meeeeooow. Me mew mew meeeeeow, mew

mind from the known relations investigates the unknown. But in
meow meow mew meoow meeeeeoow meeeeeeeeoow mew meeooow. Mew me

all decisions of taste or external beauty, all the relations are
mew meeeoooow me meoow me meeeeeow meooow, mew mew meoooooow mew

beforehand obvious to the eye; and we thence proceed to feel a
meeeooooow meeeoow me mew mew; mew me meeoow meeeeow me meow m

sentiment of complacency or disgust, according to the nature of
meeeoooow me meeeeeeooow me meoooow, meeeeeeow me mew meeeow me

the object, and disposition of our organs.
mew meeoow, mew meeeeeeeoow me mew meooow.




Euclid has fully explained all the qualities of the circle; but
Meeoow mew meeow meoooooow mew mew meoooooow me mew meooow; mew

has not in any proposition said a word of its beauty. The reason
mew mew me mew meeeeeeooow meow m meow me mew meeoow. Mew meooow

is evident. The beauty is not a quality of the circle. It lies
me meeeeow. Mew meeoow me mew m meoooow me mew meeeow. Me meow

not in any part of the line, whose parts are equally distant from
mew me mew meow me mew meow, meeow meeow mew meeeoow meeeoow meow

a common centre. It is only the effect which that figure produces
m meeoow meeeow. Me me meow mew meeeow meoow meow meeeow meeeeeow

upon the mind, whose peculiar fabric of structure renders it
meow mew meow, meeow meeeooow meooow me meeeeooow meeeoow me

susceptible of such sentiments. In vain would you look for it in
meeeoooooow me meow meeeeoooow. Me meow meoow mew meow mew me me

the circle, or seek it, either by your senses or by mathematical
mew meooow, me meow me, meeoow me meow meeeow me me meeeeeeeeoow

reasoning, in all the properties of that figure.
meoooooow, me mew mew meeeeeooow me meow meooow.




Attend to Palladio and Perrault, while they explain all the parts
Meooow me Meeeeoow mew Meeeooow, meoow meow meoooow mew mew meeow

and proportions of a pillar. They talk of the cornice, and
mew meoooooooow me m meooow. Meow meow me mew meeeoow, mew

frieze, and base, and entablature, and shaft, and architrave; and
meooow, mew meow, mew meeeeeeooow, mew meoow, mew meeeooooow; mew

give the description and position of each of these members. But
meow mew meeeeeeeeow mew meeeeoow me meow me meoow meeeoow. Mew

should you ask the description and position of its beauty, they
meeoow mew mew mew meeeeeeeeow mew meeeooow me mew meooow, meow

would readily reply, that the beauty is not in any of the parts
meoow meeeeow meeow, meow mew meeoow me mew me mew me mew meoow

or members of a pillar, but results from the whole, when that
me meeeoow me m meeoow, mew meoooow meow mew meoow, meow meow

complicated figure is presented to an intelligent mind,
meeeoooooow meooow me meeooooow me me meeeoooooow meow,

susceptible to those finer sensations. Till such a spectator
meeeeeeooow me meeow meoow meeeeeeeow. Meow meow m meoooooow

appear, there is nothing but a figure of such particular
meooow, meeow me meeeoow mew m meeeow me meow meeoooooow

dimensions and proportions: from his sentiments alone arise its
meooooooow mew meeeoooooow: meow mew meeoooooow meeow meeow mew

elegance and beauty.
meeoooow mew meeoow.




Again; attend to Cicero, while he paints the crimes of a Verres
Meoow; meooow me Meeeow, meoow me meooow mew meeoow me m Meeoow

or a Catiline. You must acknowledge that the moral turpitude
me m Meeeooow. Mew meow meeeeeeooow meow mew meoow meoooooow

results, in the same manner, from the contemplation of the whole,
meeeoow, me mew meow meeeow, meow mew meeeeeeeoooow me mew meeow,

when presented to a being whose organs have such a particular
meow meeeeooow me m meoow meoow meeoow meow meow m meeoooooow

structure and formation. The orator may paint rage, insolence,
meeeeeoow mew meeeeooow. Mew meeoow mew meeow meow, meeeoooow,

barbarity on the one side; meekness, suffering, sorrow, innocence
meeeeooow me mew mew meow; meeeeeow, meeooooow, meeoow, meeeoooow

on the other. But if you feel no indignation or compassion arise
me mew meeow. Mew me mew meow me meeeeooooow me meeeeeooow meoow

in you from this complication of circumstances, you would in vain
me mew meow meow meeeeeeeooow me meeeeeeooooow, mew meeow me meow

ask him, in what consists the crime or villainy, which he so
mew mew, me meow meeoooow mew meeow me meeeeeow, meeow me me

vehemently exclaims against? At what time, or on what subject it
meeeeeeoow meooooow meeeoow? Me meow meow, me me meow meoooow me

first began to exist? And what has a few months afterwards become
meoow meoow me meoow? Mew meow mew m mew meeeow meeeooooow meeeow

of it, when every disposition and thought of all the actors is
me me, meow meeow meeeoooooow mew meeeeow me mew mew meooow me

totally altered or annihilated? No satisfactory answer can be
meeeoow meeeeow me meeeeeoooow? Me meeeooooooow meeeow mew me

given to any of these questions, upon the abstract hypothesis of
meeow me mew me meeow meoooooow, meow mew meeeeeow meeeeoooow me

morals; and we must at last acknowledge, that  the crime or
meeeow; mew me meow me meow meoooooooow, meow  mew meeow me

immorality is no particular fact or relation, which can be the
meeeeeooow me me meeeooooow meow me meooooow, meoow mew me mew

object of the understanding, but arises entirely from the
meeeow me mew meeeeeeeeeeow, mew meeeow meooooow meow mew

sentiment of disapprobation, which, by the structure of human
meeeeooow me meeoooooooooow, meoow, me mew meeeeeoow me meoow

nature, we unavoidably feel on the apprehension of barbarity or
meeeow, me meeeeeeeoow meow me mew meeeooooooow me meeeeeoow me

treachery.
meeooooow.




IV. Inanimate objects may bear to each other all the same
ME. Meeeeeoow meeeoow mew meow me meow meoow mew mew meow

relations which we observe in moral agents; though the former can
meeeeeeow meoow me meeeoow me meoow meooow; meooow mew meeoow mew

never be the object of love or hatred, nor are consequently
meeow me mew meeeow me meow me meooow, mew mew meooooooooow

susceptible of merit or iniquity. A young tree, which over-tops
meeeeeeooow me meoow me meooooow. M meoow meow, meeow meow-meow

and destroys its parent, stands in all the same relations with
mew meeeeoow mew meeeow, meeoow me mew mew meow meeeeeoow meow

Nero, when he murdered Agrippina; and if morality consisted
Meow, meow me meeeeoow Meoooooow; mew me meeeeeow meeeeooow

merely in relations, would no doubt be equally criminal.
meeoow me meeeeeoow, meoow me meeow me meeeoow meooooow.




V. It appears evident that--the ultimate ends of human actions
M. Me meeooow meoooow meow--mew meeeooow meow me meeow meeooow

can never, in any case, be accounted for by reason, but recommend
mew meeow, me mew meow, me meeooooow mew me meeeow, mew meoooooow

themselves entirely to the sentiments and affections of mankind,
meeeeeooow meeeooow me mew meooooooow mew meeeooooow me meoooow,

without any dependance on the intellectual faculties. Ask a man
meeeeow mew meeeeeooow me mew meeoooooooow meeeeooow. Mew m mew

WHY HE USES EXERCISE; he will answer, BECAUSE HE DESIRES TO KEEP
MEW ME MEOW MEEEEEOW; me meow meeoow, MEEOOOW ME MEEEOOW ME MEOW

HIS HEALTH. If you then enquire, WHY HE DESIRES HEALTH, he will
MEW MEEOOW. Me mew meow meoooow, MEW ME MEEEEOW MEOOOW, me meow

readily reply, BECAUSE SICKNESS IS PAINFUL. If you push your
meeooow meeow, MEEOOOW MEEEEOOW ME MEEOOOW. Me mew meow meow

enquiries farther, and desire a reason WHY HE HATES PAIN, it is
meeeeooow meeeeow, mew meooow m meooow MEW ME MEEOW MEOW, me me

impossible he can ever give any. This is an ultimate end, and is
meeeeeeoow me mew meow meow mew. Meow me me meeoooow mew, mew me

never referred to any other object.
meoow meooooow me mew meoow meeeow.




Perhaps to your second question, WHY HE DESIRES HEALTH, he may
Meeooow me meow meeoow meooooow, MEW ME MEEEOOW MEOOOW, me mew

also reply, that IT IS NECESSARY FOR THE EXERCISE OF HIS CALLING.
meow meeow, meow ME ME MEEEEEOOW MEW MEW MEEEEOOW ME MEW MEOOOOW.

If you ask, WHY HE IS ANXIOUS ON THAT HEAD, he will answer,
Me mew mew, MEW ME ME MEEEOOW ME MEOW MEOW, me meow meeeow,

BECAUSE HE DESIRES TO GET MONEY. If you demand WHY? IT IS THE
MEEEEOW ME MEEEEOW ME MEW MEEOW. Me mew meooow MEW? ME ME MEW

INSTRUMENT OF PLEASURE, says he. And beyond this it is an
MEEEEEEEOW ME MEEEOOOW, meow me. Mew meeeow meow me me me

absurdity to ask for a reason. It is impossible there can be a
meeeeeeow me mew mew m meeeow. Me me meooooooow meoow mew me m

progress
meeeeeow




IN INFINITUM; and that one thing can always be a reason why
ME MEEEEEEOW; mew meow mew meeow mew meooow me m meooow mew

another is desired. Something must be desirable on its own
meoooow me meoooow. Meeeeooow meow me meeeeooow me mew mew

account, and because of its immediate accord or agreement with
meoooow, mew meeooow me mew meeooooow meeeow me meoooooow meow

human sentiment and affection.
meeow meeeeeeow mew meeooooow.




Now as virtue is an end, and is desirable on its own account,
Mew me meeoow me me mew, mew me meeeeeoow me mew mew meeooow,

without fee and reward, merely for the immediate satisfaction
meeooow mew mew meeoow, meeeow mew mew meeeeeoow meeeeeeeooow

which it conveys; it is requisite that there should be some
meeow me meeooow; me me meeeeeeow meow meeow meeeow me meow

sentiment which it touches, some internal taste or feeling, or
meeeeeeow meoow me meeooow, meow meooooow meoow me meeooow, me

whatever you may please to call it, which distinguishes moral
meeeeeow mew mew meeeow me meow me, meoow meeeeeeeeeoow meoow

good and evil, and which embraces the one and rejects the other.
meow mew meow, mew meeow meeeeoow mew mew mew meeeeow mew meeow.




Thus the distinct boundaries and offices of REASON and of TASTE
Meow mew meooooow meeeeoooow mew meeeoow me MEEEOW mew me MEOOW

are easily ascertained. The former conveys the knowledge of truth
mew meooow meeooooooow. Mew meeoow meeooow mew meeeeeoow me meeow

and falsehood: the latter gives the sentiment of beauty and
mew meoooooow: mew meeoow meeow mew meoooooow me meeoow mew

deformity, vice and virtue. The one discovers objects as they
meeeeooow, meow mew meeeow. Mew mew meeeeooow meeeeow me meow

really stand in nature, without addition and diminution: the
meeoow meeow me meeeow, meeeoow meeeeoow mew meeoooooow: mew

other has a productive faculty, and gilding or staining all
meeow mew m meooooooow meoooow, mew meoooow me meooooow mew

natural objects with the colours, borrowed from internal
meeooow meeeoow meow mew meeooow, meeoooow meow meeeeeow

sentiment, raises in a manner a new creation. Reason being cool
meeeoooow, meeoow me m meeeow m mew meeoooow. Meeeow meeow meow

and disengaged, is no motive to action, and directs only the
mew meeeooooow, me me meooow me meeeow, mew meeeoow meow mew

impulse received from appetite or inclination, by showing us the
meeeeow meeoooow meow meeoooow me meeeeooooow, me meeeoow me mew

means of attaining happiness or avoiding misery: Taste, as it
meeow me meeooooow meeeoooow me meeeooow meeoow: Meoow, me me

gives pleasure or pain, and thereby constitutes happiness or
meeow meeeooow me meow, mew meeeeow meeeoooooow meeeeeoow me

misery, becomes a motive to action, and is the first spring or
meooow, meeeeow m meeeow me meeeow, mew me mew meeow meooow me

impulse to desire and volition. From circumstances and relations,
meeeoow me meeoow mew meooooow. Meow meoooooooooow mew meeooooow,

known or supposed, the former leads us to the discovery of the
meoow me meooooow, mew meeoow meeow me me mew meeeeooow me mew

concealed and unknown: after all circumstances and relations are
meeeeeeow mew meoooow: meoow mew meeeeeeooooow mew meeeeeoow mew

laid before us, the latter makes us feel from the whole a new
meow meeoow me, mew meeeow meoow me meow meow mew meoow m mew

sentiment of blame or approbation. The standard of the one, being
meoooooow me meoow me meeeeeeooow. Mew meeeeoow me mew mew, meeow

founded on the nature of things, is eternal and inflexible, even
meeooow me mew meooow me meeeow, me meeeoow mew meeeeoooow, meow

by the will of the Supreme Being: the standard of the other
me mew meow me mew Meeeoow Meeow: mew meeoooow me mew meoow

arising from the eternal frame and constitution of animals, is
meoooow meow mew meeeoow meeow mew meeeeeeeeeow me meeooow, me

ultimately derived from that Supreme Will, which bestowed on each
meeeeeooow meeooow meow meow Meeeeow Meow, meeow meeeeoow me meow

being its peculiar nature, and arranged the several classes and
meeow mew meooooow meeeow, mew meeeeeow mew meeeeow meeeeow mew

orders of existence.
meooow me meeeeeeow.










APPENDIX II.
MEEOOOOW ME.




OF SELF-LOVE.
ME MEOW-MEOW.










THERE is a principle, supposed to prevail among many, which is
MEEOW me m meeeeeeow, meeoooow me meeeeow meoow meow, meeow me

utterly incompatible with all virtue or moral sentiment; and as
meoooow meeeeeeeeeow meow mew meeoow me meeow meeeeooow; mew me

it can proceed from nothing but the most depraved disposition, so
me mew meeeeow meow meeeeow mew mew meow meeoooow meeeeeoooow, me

in its turn it tends still further to encourage that depravity.
me mew meow me meeow meoow meoooow me meeooooow meow meeeeeoow.

This principle is, that all BENEVOLENCE is mere hypocrisy,
Meow meeooooow me, meow mew MEEEEEEEOOW me meow meeooooow,

friendship a cheat, public spirit a farce, fidelity a snare to
meeeeeeeow m meoow, meeoow meooow m meeow, meeeeoow m meoow me

procure trust and confidence; and that while all of us, at
meeeoow meoow mew meeeeeooow; mew meow meeow mew me me, me

bottom, pursue only our private interest, we wear these fair
meeoow, meeeow meow mew meeooow meeeooow, me meow meeow meow

disguises, in order to put others off their guard, and expose
meeeeeoow, me meoow me mew meeoow mew meoow meoow, mew meeeow

them the more to our wiles and machinations. What heart one must
meow mew meow me mew meoow mew meeeeoooooow. Meow meeow mew meow

be possessed of who possesses such principles, and who feels no
me meeeeooow me mew meeeeooow meow meeeooooow, mew mew meeow me

internal sentiment that belies so pernicious a theory, it is easy
meeeeoow meeeeeoow meow meeoow me meooooooow m meooow, me me meow

to imagine: and also what degree of affection and benevolence he
me meeeoow: mew meow meow meooow me meeeoooow mew meeeeeeeoow me

can bear to a species whom he represents under such odious
mew meow me m meeeeow meow me meooooooow meeow meow meeoow

colours, and supposes so little susceptible of gratitude or any
meeeeow, mew meeeeoow me meooow meeooooooow me meeeeeoow me mew

return of affection. Or if we should not ascribe these principles
meooow me meeeoooow. Me me me meooow mew meoooow meeow meeeeoooow

wholly to a corrupted heart, we must at least account for them
meeoow me m meeeeooow meoow, me meow me meeow meeooow mew meow

from the most careless and precipitate examination. Superficial
meow mew meow meeeeoow mew meoooooooow meeeeeeeoow. Meeeeooooow

reasoners, indeed, observing many false pretences among mankind,
meeeeeeow, meeoow, meeeeeoow meow meoow meoooooow meoow meeeeow,

and feeling, perhaps, no very strong restraint in their own
mew meeeeow, meoooow, me meow meeeow meeeeooow me meoow mew

disposition, might draw a general and a hasty conclusion that all
meeeoooooow, meoow meow m meeeoow mew m meeow meeeeeooow meow mew

is equally corrupted, and that men, different from all other
me meeeoow meeeeeeow, mew meow mew, meeeeeoow meow mew meoow

animals, and indeed from all other species of existence, admit of
meeeeow, mew meooow meow mew meoow meeeeow me meeeeooow, meeow me

no degrees of good or bad, but are, in every instance, the same
me meeooow me meow me mew, mew mew, me meoow meeeeeow, mew meow

creatures under different disguises and appearances.
meoooooow meoow meeeeooow meeeeeeow mew meeeeeeeeow.




There is another principle, somewhat resembling the former; which
Meoow me meeeeow meeooooow, meeoooow meeeeoooow mew meeeow; meoow

has been much insisted on by philosophers, and has been the
mew meow meow meeeeoow me me meeeeoooooow, mew mew meow mew

foundation of many a system; that, whatever affection one may
meeeeeeoow me meow m meeoow; meow, meeeeeow meoooooow mew mew

feel, or imagine he feels for others, no passion is, or can be
meow, me meeeeow me meeow mew meeeow, me meoooow me, me mew me

disinterested; that the most generous friendship, however
meeeeeeooooow; meow mew meow meooooow meeeeeeeow, meeeeow

sincere, is a modification of self-love; and that, even unknown
meeeoow, me m meeeeeeoooow me meow-meow; mew meow, meow meeooow

to ourselves, we seek only our own gratification, while we appear
me meeeeooow, me meow meow mew mew meeeeeeeeeoow, meeow me meooow

the most deeply engaged in schemes for the liberty and happiness
mew meow meooow meeeoow me meeooow mew mew meoooow mew meeeeooow

of mankind. By a turn of imagination, by a refinement of
me meeeeow. Me m meow me meeeeeeeeow, me m meeeeeeeow me

reflection, by an enthusiasm of passion, we seem to take part in
meooooooow, me me meeeeeeeow me meoooow, me meow me meow meow me

the interests of others, and imagine ourselves divested of all
mew meeeeeoow me meooow, mew meoooow meeooooow meeoooow me mew

selfish considerations: but, at bottom, the most generous patriot
meeeeow meeeeeeeooooow: mew, me meeeow, mew meow meeeeoow meeeeow

and most niggardly miser, the bravest hero and most abject
mew meow meeeeeoow meoow, mew meeeeow meow mew meow meeeow

coward, have, in every action, an equal regard to their own
meeoow, meow, me meoow meeeow, me meoow meeeow me meoow mew

happiness and welfare.
meoooooow mew meeooow.




Whoever concludes from the seeming tendency of this opinion, that
Meeeeow meeeeeoow meow mew meoooow meeeooow me meow meeeoow, meow

those, who make profession of it, cannot possibly feel the true
meeow, mew meow meooooooow me me, meeeow meeeeeow meow mew meow

sentiments of benevolence, or have any regard for genuine virtue,
meeeeeeoow me meeeeeoooow, me meow mew meeoow mew meeeeow meeoow,

will often find himself, in practice, very much mistaken. Probity
meow meoow meow meoooow, me meeeeoow, meow meow meooooow. Meeeeow

and honour were no strangers to Epicurus and his sect. Atticus
mew meeeow meow me meeooooow me Meeeooow mew mew meow. Meoooow

and Horace seem to have enjoyed from nature, and cultivated by
mew Meooow meow me meow meeooow meow meooow, mew meeeooooow me

reflection, as generous and friendly dispositions as any disciple
meeeeeooow, me meeeeeow mew meeeeoow meeeeoooooow me mew meeeeoow

of the austerer schools. And among the modern, Hobbes and Locke,
me mew meeeooow meoooow. Mew meoow mew meeeow, Meeeow mew Meoow,

who maintained the selfish system of morals, lived irreproachable
mew meeeeoooow mew meeeeow meeoow me meeeow, meeow meooooooooooow

lives; though the former lay not under any restraint of religion
meeow; meeoow mew meeoow mew mew meoow mew meeeeooow me meeeooow

which might supply the defects of his philosophy.
meeow meoow meooow mew meoooow me mew meeeeoooow.




An epicurean or a Hobbist readily allows, that there is such a
Me meeeoooow me m Meoooow meeooow meooow, meow meoow me meow m

thing as a friendship in the world, without hypocrisy or
meoow me m meeoooooow me mew meoow, meoooow meeeeooow me

disguise; though he may attempt, by a philosophical chymistry, to
meeoooow; meooow me mew meeooow, me m meeeeeeeoooow meeeoooow, me

resolve the elements of this passion, if I may so speak, into
meoooow mew meooooow me meow meoooow, me M mew me meeow, meow

those of another, and explain every affection to be self-love,
meoow me meeooow, mew meeooow meoow meoooooow me me meow-meow,

twisted and moulded, by a particular turn of imagination, into a
meeeoow mew meeeeow, me m meeeooooow meow me meeeeeeeoow, meow m

variety of appearances. But as the same turn of imagination
meeooow me meeeeeeeoow. Mew me mew meow meow me meoooooooow

prevails not in every man, nor gives the same direction to the
meeoooow mew me meeow mew, mew meoow mew meow meeeoooow me mew

original passion; this is sufficient even according to the
meeoooow meeeoow; meow me meeeeeeoow meow meeeeeeow me mew

selfish system to make the widest difference in human characters,
meeeoow meeoow me meow mew meeeow meeeeeeeow me meeow meooooooow,

and denominate one man virtuous and humane, another vicious and
mew meeeeeeoow mew mew meeeeeow mew meeoow, meoooow meoooow mew

meanly interested. I esteem the man whose self-love, by whatever
meeeow meeeooooow. M meeeow mew mew meoow meow-meow, me meeoooow

means, is so directed as to give him a concern for others, and
meeow, me me meeeeeow me me meow mew m meoooow mew meeeow, mew

render him serviceable to society: as I hate or despise him, who
meeoow mew meeeeeeeoow me meeooow: me M meow me meeooow mew, mew

has no regard to any thing beyond his own gratifications and
mew me meeoow me mew meeow meeoow mew mew meeeeeeeooooow mew

enjoyments. In vain would you suggest that these characters,
meeoooooow. Me meow meoow mew meeeeow meow meoow meeeeeeeow,

though seemingly opposite, are at bottom the same, and that a
meeeow meeeeeeow meeeeoow, mew me meeoow mew meow, mew meow m

very inconsiderable turn of thought forms the whole difference
meow meeeeeeeeeeoow meow me meeeoow meeow mew meoow meeoooooow

between them. Each character, notwithstanding these
meeooow meow. Meow meeeoooow, meeeeeeeeeoooow meeow

inconsiderable differences, appears to me, in practice, pretty
meeeeeeeeeeeow meeeeeoooow, meeooow me me, me meooooow, meeoow

durable and untransmutable. And I find not in this more than in
meeooow mew meeeeeeeeeeeow. Mew M meow mew me meow meow meow me

other subjects, that the natural sentiments arising from the
meeow meeeeeow, meow mew meeeoow meeeooooow meeeeow meow mew

general appearances of things are easily destroyed by subtile
meoooow meeeoooooow me meooow mew meeeow meeooooow me meeeoow

reflections concerning the minute origin of these appearances.
meeeeeeeeow meeoooooow mew meooow meooow me meeow meeooooooow.

Does not the lively, cheerful colour of a countenance inspire me
Meow mew mew meeoow, meeeooow meeeow me m meeeeeeeeow meoooow me

with complacency and pleasure; even though I learn from
meow meoooooooow mew meeeeoow; meow meeeow M meeow meow

philosophy that all difference of complexion arises from the most
meeeeoooow meow mew meeeeoooow me meooooooow meooow meow mew meow

minute differences of thickness, in the most minute parts of the
meeoow meeeeeeeeow me meeeeooow, me mew meow meeoow meoow me mew

skin; by means of which a superficies is qualified to reflect one
meow; me meoow me meoow m meeeeeoooow me meeooooow me meeeeow mew

of the original colours of light, and absorb the others?
me mew meeoooow meeooow me meeow, mew meooow mew meeeow?




But though the question concerning the universal or partial
Mew meooow mew meeoooow meeoooooow mew meeeeeeow me meeooow

selfishness of man be not so material as is usually imagined to
meeeeeoooow me mew me mew me meeeeoow me me meeeoow meeeeoow me

morality and practice, it is certainly of consequence in the
meeeeeow mew meooooow, me me meeooooow me meeooooooow me mew

speculative science of human nature, and is a proper object of
meeeeooooow meeeeow me meoow meooow, mew me m meeoow meeeow me

curiosity and enquiry. It may not, therefore, be unsuitable, in
meeeeeoow mew meoooow. Me mew mew, meeeeeeow, me meooooooow, me

this place, to bestow a few reflections upon it.
meow meoow, me meeeow m mew meeeeeeeoow meow me.




[Footnote: Benevolence naturally divides into two kinds, the
[Meooooow: Meeeeeeooow meeeeooow meoooow meow mew meeow, mew

GENERAL and the PARTICULAR. The first is, where we have no
MEEEOOW mew mew MEEOOOOOOW. Mew meoow me, meoow me meow me

friendship or connexion or esteem for the person, but feel only a
meeeeeeoow me meoooooow me meeeow mew mew meeeow, mew meow meow m

general sympathy with him or a compassion for his pains, and a
meeeoow meeeeoow meow mew me m meeeooooow mew mew meoow, mew m

congratulation with his pleasures. The other species of
meeeeeeeeoooow meow mew meeeeooow. Mew meeow meeeeow me

benevolence is founded on an opinion of virtue, on services done
meeeeeeooow me meeooow me me meoooow me meeoow, me meeeooow meow

us, or on some particular connexions. Both these sentiments must
me, me me meow meeeeeeoow meeoooooow. Meow meeow meeeeoooow meow

be allowed real in human nature: but whether they will resolve
me meeooow meow me meoow meeoow: mew meoooow meow meow meeeeow

into some nice considerations of self-love, is a question more
meow meow meow meeeeeeeeeeoow me meow-meow, me m meeeeoow meow

curious than important. The former sentiment, to wit, that of
meeeeow meow meeeeeoow. Mew meeoow meeeoooow, me mew, meow me

general benevolence, or humanity, or sympathy, we shall have
meeeoow meeeeeeeeow, me meooooow, me meeeooow, me meeow meow

occasion frequently to treat of in the course of this inquiry;
meooooow meeeooooow me meoow me me mew meooow me meow meoooow;

and I assume it as real, from general experience, without any
mew M meeeow me me meow, meow meeeoow meeoooooow, meoooow mew

other proof.]
meoow meeow.]




The most obvious objection to the selfish hypothesis is, that, as
Mew meow meeooow meeeeeeow me mew meeooow meeeeeeeow me, meow, me

it is contrary to common feeling and our most unprejudiced
me me meeeeeow me meeoow meoooow mew mew meow meeeeeeeeeow

notions, there is required the highest stretch of philosophy to
meeeoow, meoow me meeeeoow mew meoooow meeeoow me meeeeeeeow me

establish so extraordinary a paradox. To the most careless
meeeoooow me meeeoooooooow m meeeoow. Me mew meow meeeeeow

observer there appear to be such dispositions as benevolence and
meeeeoow meoow meeoow me me meow meeeeeeoooow me meeeeeeeoow mew

generosity; such affections as love, friendship, compassion,
meeeeeeoow; meow meooooooow me meow, meeeooooow, meeeeeeeow,

gratitude. These sentiments have their causes, effects, objects,
meeooooow. Meoow meeeeoooow meow meeow meeeow, meeooow, meeeeow,

and operations, marked by common language and observation, and
mew meeeooooow, meooow me meooow meeeooow mew meeeeeeeoow, mew

plainly distinguished from those of the selfish passions. And as
meeeoow meeooooooooow meow meeow me mew meeeeow meooooow. Mew me

this is the obvious appearance of things, it must be admitted,
meow me mew meoooow meeoooooow me meeoow, me meow me meeeooow,

till some hypothesis be discovered, which by penetrating deeper
meow meow meooooooow me meeeeeeeow, meoow me meeeeeeeeow meeeow

into human nature, may prove the former affections to be nothing
meow meeow meeeow, mew meeow mew meeoow meeeeeeeow me me meeeoow

but modifications of the latter. All attempts of this kind have
mew meeooooooooow me mew meeoow. Mew meooooow me meow meow meow

hitherto proved fruitless, and seem to have proceeded entirely
meeeooow meeoow meeeeeoow, mew meow me meow meeeeeoow meooooow

from that love of SIMPLICITY which has been the source of much
meow meow meow me MEEEEEEOOW meoow mew meow mew meeeow me meow

false reasoning in philosophy. I shall not here enter into any
meeow meeeeeoow me meeeeeeeow. M meoow mew meow meeow meow mew

detail on the present subject. Many able philosophers have shown
meeoow me mew meeeoow meoooow. Meow meow meeeooooooow meow meeow

the insufficiency of these systems. And I shall take for granted
mew meeeeeoooooow me meeow meeooow. Mew M meeow meow mew meeeeow

what, I believe, the smallest reflection will make evident to
meow, M meeeoow, mew meeeeoow meeeeeooow meow meow meeeoow me

every impartial enquirer.
meeow meeeeooow meeoooow.




But the nature of the subject furnishes the strongest
Mew mew meeeow me mew meoooow meeeeeoow mew meoooooow

presumption, that no better system will ever, for the future, be
meoooooooow, meow me meeeow meeoow meow meow, mew mew meeoow, me

invented, in order to account for the origin of the benevolent
meeeeeow, me meoow me meeooow mew mew meeoow me mew meeeeeooow

from the selfish affections, and reduce all the various emotions
meow mew meeeoow meeeooooow, mew meeeow mew mew meeeeow meeeooow

of the human mind to a perfect simplicity. The case is not the
me mew meeow meow me m meoooow meeeooooow. Mew meow me mew mew

same in this species of philosophy as in physics. Many an
meow me meow meoooow me meeeeeooow me me meoooow. Meow me

hypothesis in nature, contrary to first appearances, has been
meeeeoooow me meeoow, meeeeoow me meoow meoooooooow, mew meow

found, on more accurate scrutiny, solid and satisfactory.
meeow, me meow meeoooow meeeeeow, meoow mew meeeeeeeooow.

Instances of this kind are so frequent that a judicious, as well
Meeooooow me meow meow mew me meeeooow meow m meeeeooow, me meow

as witty philosopher, [Footnote: Mons. Fontenelle.] has ventured
me meoow meeeeooooow, [Meeoooow: Meow. Meeeooooow.] mew meeeeoow

to affirm, if there be more than one way in which any phenomenon
me meeeow, me meoow me meow meow mew mew me meeow mew meeeeeeeow

may be produced, that there is general presumption for its
mew me meeeooow, meow meoow me meeooow meeooooooow mew mew

arising from the causes which are the least obvious and familiar.
meoooow meow mew meeoow meeow mew mew meeow meeeeow mew meeeeeow.

But the presumption always lies on the other side, in all
Mew mew meeeeooooow meeeow meow me mew meeow meow, me mew

enquiries concerning the origin of our passions, and of the
meeeeeoow meeeeeeeow mew meooow me mew meeoooow, mew me mew

internal operations of the human mind. The simplest and most
meooooow meooooooow me mew meoow meow. Mew meeeeeow mew meow

obvious cause which can there be assigned for any phenomenon, is
meeeeow meoow meeow mew meeow me meeeooow mew mew meeeeeeoow, me

probably the true one. When a philosopher, in the explication of
meeoooow mew meow mew. Meow m meeeeooooow, me mew meeooooooow me

his system, is obliged to have recourse to some very intricate
mew meeoow, me meoooow me meow meeeeeow me meow meow meeeeeoow

and refined reflections, and to suppose them essential to the
mew meeooow meeeoooooow, mew me meeeeow meow meeeeooow me mew

production of any passion or emotion, we have reason to be
meeoooooow me mew meeeoow me meoooow, me meow meooow me me

extremely on our guard against so fallacious an hypothesis. The
meeeeeoow me mew meeow meoooow me meeeooooow me meooooooow. Mew

affections are not susceptible of any impression from the
meeeeoooow mew mew meeeeeeooow me mew meeeeeooow meow mew

refinements of reason or imagination; and it is always found that
meeeeeeeeow me meeeow me meeooooooow; mew me me meeeow meoow meow

a vigorous exertion of the latter faculties, necessarily, from
m meeeeoow meeeeoow me mew meooow meoooooow, meeeeeeeoow, meow

the narrow capacity of the human mind, destroys all activity in
mew meeoow meeeeeow me mew meeow meow, meeoooow mew meeeeeow me

the former. Our predominant motive or intention is, indeed,
mew meeoow. Mew meeeoooooow meeoow me meeeoooow me, meeoow,

frequently concealed from ourselves when it is mingled and
meeeeeeoow meeeeeoow meow meeeoooow meow me me meeeeow mew

confounded with other motives which the mind, from vanity or
meeeeeeeow meow meoow meeooow meeow mew meow, meow meeeow me

self-conceit, is desirous of supposing more prevalent: but there
meow-meeeeow, me meeoooow me meoooooow meow meeeeeeow: mew meeow

is no instance that a concealment of this nature has ever arisen
me me meeeeeow meow m meeeoooooow me meow meeeow mew meow meeoow

from the abstruseness and intricacy of the motive. A man that has
meow mew meeeeeeeeoow mew meoooooow me mew meeoow. M mew meow mew

lost a friend and patron may flatter himself that all his grief
meow m meeeow mew meooow mew meoooow meeooow meow mew mew meeow

arises from generous sentiments, without any mixture of narrow or
meooow meow meeeeeow meeeeeeoow, meeeeow mew meeeoow me meeeow me

interested considerations: but a man that grieves for a valuable
meeeeeeeow meeeeoooooooow: mew m mew meow meeeoow mew m meeeeeow

friend, who needed his patronage and protection; how can we
meooow, mew meooow mew meeooooow mew meeeeoooow; mew mew me

suppose, that his passionate tenderness arises from some
meoooow, meow mew meooooooow meeeeeeoow meeeow meow meow

metaphysical regards to a self-interest, which has no foundation
meeeeeeeooow meoooow me m meow-meeeooow, meeow mew me meeeooooow

or reality? We may as well imagine that minute wheels and
me meeeeow? Me mew me meow meoooow meow meeoow meeeow mew

springs, like those of a watch, give motion to a loaded waggon,
meeeoow, meow meoow me m meeow, meow meeeow me m meooow meeoow,

as account for the origin of passion from such abstruse
me meeooow mew mew meooow me meoooow meow meow meeeooow

reflections.
meoooooooow.




Animals are found susceptible of kindness, both to their own
Meeeeow mew meeow meoooooooow me meeeeeow, meow me meoow mew

species and to ours; nor is there, in this case, the least
meeooow mew me meow; mew me meoow, me meow meow, mew meoow

suspicion of disguise or artifice. Shall we account for all THEIR
meeeoooow me meooooow me meeeeoow. Meeow me meeeoow mew mew MEEOW

sentiments, too, from refined deductions of self-interest? Or if
meeeooooow, mew, meow meeeeow meeeeeeeow me meow-meeeeeow? Me me

we admit a disinterested benevolence in the inferior species, by
me meoow m meeooooooooow meeeeeoooow me mew meeeooow meoooow, me

what rule of analogy can we refuse it in the superior?
meow meow me meeooow mew me meeoow me me mew meeoooow?




Love between the sexes begets a complacency and good-will, very
Meow meeooow mew meoow meooow m meeeeeeeeow mew meow-meow, meow

distinct from the gratification of an appetite. Tenderness to
meooooow meow mew meeeeeeeoooow me me meooooow. Meeeeeeoow me

their offspring, in all sensible beings, is commonly able alone
meeow meeeoooow, me mew meeeooow meooow, me meeeooow meow meeow

to counter-balance the strongest motives of self-love, and has no
me meeeeow-meeeeow mew meeeoooow meeeeow me meow-meow, mew mew me

manner of dependance on that affection. What interest can a fond
meooow me meeeeeeoow me meow meeeoooow. Meow meeeooow mew m meow

mother have in view, who loses her health by assiduous attendance
meooow meow me meow, mew meeow mew meeoow me meeooooow meeeeeeoow

on her sick child, and afterwards languishes and dies of grief,
me mew meow meoow, mew meeeeeeoow meooooooow mew meow me meeow,

when freed, by its death, from the slavery of that attendance?
meow meoow, me mew meoow, meow mew meeooow me meow meooooooow?




Is gratitude no affection of the human breast, or is that a word
Me meeeoooow me meeeeeeow me mew meeow meeeow, me me meow m meow

merely, without any meaning or reality? Have we no satisfaction
meooow, meeeeow mew meeeeow me meeeoow? Meow me me meeeooooooow

in one man's company above another's, and no desire of the
me mew mew'm meoooow meeow meeeoow'm, mew me meooow me mew

welfare of our friend, even though absence or death should
meeeeow me mew meeeow, meow meooow meeooow me meeow meeeow

prevent us from all participation in it? Or what is it commonly,
meoooow me meow mew meeeeeeeeeeow me me? Me meow me me meeeeoow,

that gives us any participation in it, even while alive and
meow meoow me mew meeeeeeeeooow me me, meow meeow meoow mew

present, but our affection and regard to him?
meeooow, mew mew meeooooow mew meooow me mew?




These and a thousand other instances are marks of a general
Meeow mew m meooooow meeow meeeeooow mew meeow me m meeeeow

benevolence in human nature, where no REAL interest binds us to
meeeeeeeeow me meeow meeeow, meoow me MEOW meeeeoow meeow me me

the object. And how an IMAGINARY interest known and avowed for
mew meooow. Mew mew me MEEOOOOOW meeeeoow meoow mew meooow mew

such, can be the origin of any passion or emotion, seems
meow, mew me mew meooow me mew meeeeow me meeooow, meeow

difficult to explain. No satisfactory hypothesis of this kind has
meeeeooow me meoooow. Me meeoooooooow meeeeeooow me meow meow mew

yet been discovered; nor is there the smallest probability that
mew meow meeoooooow; mew me meoow mew meeoooow meeeeeeeoow meow

the future industry of men will ever be attended with more
mew meooow meeeeeow me mew meow meow me meeeeeow meow meow

favourable success.
meeeooooow meeooow.




But farther, if we consider rightly of the matter, we shall find
Mew meeeoow, me me meeeeeow meoooow me mew meeeow, me meoow meow

that the hypothesis which allows of a disinterested benevolence,
meow mew meeoooooow meeow meeoow me m meoooooooooow meeeeeeeoow,

distinct from self-love, has really more SIMPLICITY in it, and is
meeoooow meow meow-meow, mew meeoow meow MEEEEEEEOW me me, mew me

more conformable to the analogy of nature than that which
meow meeooooooow me mew meeeeow me meeoow meow meow meeow

pretends to resolve all friendship and humanity into this latter
meeeooow me meoooow mew meeeeeooow mew meeeooow meow meow meeoow

principle. There are bodily wants or appetites acknowledged by
meeeeooow. Meoow mew meooow meeow me meeeeeoow meeeeoooooow me

every one, which necessarily precede all sensual enjoyment, and
meoow mew, meoow meeeoooooow meeooow mew meeeoow meeeeooow, mew

carry us directly to seek possession of the object. Thus, hunger
meoow me meeeeoow me meow meooooooow me mew meeoow. Meow, meeoow

and thirst have eating and drinking for their end; and from the
mew meeeow meow meeeow mew meeeooow mew meoow mew; mew meow mew

gratification of these primary appetites arises a pleasure, which
meeeeeoooooow me meeow meeooow meoooooow meeoow m meooooow, meoow

may become the object of another species of desire or inclination
mew meooow mew meooow me meeooow meeeeow me meeeow me meeeeooooow

that is secondary and interested. In the same manner there are
meow me meeeeooow mew meooooooow. Me mew meow meooow meeow mew

mental passions by which we are impelled immediately to seek
meeoow meooooow me meoow me mew meeeeoow meeeeeeeoow me meow

particular objects, such as fame or power, or vengeance without
meooooooow meoooow, meow me meow me meoow, me meoooooow meeeeow

any regard to interest; and when these objects are attained a
mew meeeow me meeeooow; mew meow meeow meeeeow mew meeeooow m

pleasing enjoyment ensues, as the consequence of our indulged
meeeooow meeeeeeow meeoow, me mew meeooooooow me mew meeeeoow

affections. Nature must, by the internal frame and constitution
meeeooooow. Meeoow meow, me mew meeeeeow meoow mew meeeeeeeeoow

of the mind, give an original propensity to fame, ere we can reap
me mew meow, meow me meeeeoow meooooooow me meow, mew me mew meow

any pleasure from that acquisition, or pursue it from motives of
mew meeoooow meow meow meeooooooow, me meooow me meow meoooow me

self-love, and desire of happiness. If I have no vanity, I take
meow-meow, mew meooow me meeeoooow. Me M meow me meeoow, M meow

no delight in praise: if I be void of ambition, power gives me no
me meeooow me meeoow: me M me meow me meeoooow, meeow meeow me me

enjoyment: if I be not angry, the punishment of an adversary is
meeooooow: me M me mew meeow, mew meeeooooow me me meeeeeoow me

totally indifferent to me. In all these cases there is a passion
meeeoow meeeeeoooow me me. Me mew meeow meeow meeow me m meeooow

which points immediately to the object, and constitutes it our
meoow meooow meeooooooow me mew meooow, mew meeeeeeeeow me mew

good or happiness; as there are other secondary passions which
meow me meeeoooow; me meeow mew meoow meeeeeeow meeoooow meeow

afterwards arise, and pursue it as a part of our happiness, when
meeeeoooow meeow, mew meeeow me me m meow me mew meeeeooow, meow

once it is constituted such by our original affections. Were
meow me me meeooooooow meow me mew meeeeoow meooooooow. Meow

there no appetite of any kind antecedent to self-love, that
meeow me meeeooow me mew meow meeeeoooow me meow-meow, meow

propensity could scarcely ever exert itself; because we should,
meeeeeeoow meeow meooooow meow meoow meeoow; meoooow me meooow,

in that case, have felt few and slender pains or pleasures, and
me meow meow, meow meow mew mew meeooow meoow me meeeoooow, mew

have little misery or happiness to avoid or to pursue.
meow meooow meooow me meeooooow me meoow me me meeeow.




Now where is the difficulty in conceiving, that this may likewise
Mew meeow me mew meeeeoooow me meeoooooow, meow meow mew meooooow

be the case with benevolence and friendship, and that, from the
me mew meow meow meeeeeeooow mew meeeeeeeow, mew meow, meow mew

original frame of our temper, we may feel a desire of another's
meeeooow meeow me mew meeoow, me mew meow m meeoow me meeeoow'm

happiness or good, which, by means of that affection, becomes our
meoooooow me meow, meoow, me meeow me meow meeooooow, meoooow mew

own good, and is afterwards pursued, from the combined motives of
mew meow, mew me meeeeeooow meoooow, meow mew meeoooow meeeoow me

benevolence and self-enjoyments? Who sees not that vengeance,
meeeeeeooow mew meow-meeeooooow? Mew meow mew meow meeeeeoow,

from the force alone of passion, may be so eagerly pursued, as to
meow mew meoow meeow me meeooow, mew me me meoooow meeooow, me me

make us knowingly neglect every consideration of ease, interest,
meow me meeeeeeow meoooow meoow meeeeooooooow me meow, meeeooow,

or safety; and, like some vindictive animals, infuse our very
me meeoow; mew, meow meow meeeeeeeow meoooow, meeeow mew meow

souls into the wounds we give an enemy; [Footnote: Animasque in
meeow meow mew meeoow me meow me meeow; [Meeoooow: Meeooooow me

vulnere ponunt. VIRG, Dum alteri noceat, sui negligens says
meeeeow meeoow. MEOW, Mew meeeow meeoow, mew meeeeeoow meow

Seneca of Anger. De Ira, I. i.] and what a malignant philosophy
Meeeow me Meeow. Me Mew, M. m.] mew meow m meeooooow meeoooooow

must it be, that will not allow to humanity and friendship the
meow me me, meow meow mew meoow me meeeeoow mew meeoooooow mew

same privileges which are undisputably granted to the darker
meow meeeeoooow meeow mew meeeeeeeeoow meeeoow me mew meeoow

passions of enmity and resentment; such a philosophy is more like
meeoooow me meeoow mew meeeeeeoow; meow m meeeeeooow me meow meow

a satyr than a true delineation or description of human nature;
m meeow meow m meow meeeeeeooow me meeeeeeeoow me meoow meooow;

and may be a good foundation for paradoxical wit and raillery,
mew mew me m meow meeoooooow mew meeeoooooow mew mew meeeooow,

but is a very bad one for any serious argument or reasoning.
mew me m meow mew mew mew mew meoooow meooooow me meeeoooow.










APPENDIX III.
MEEEOOOW MEW.




SOME FARTHER CONSIDERATIONS WITH REGARD TO JUSTICE.
MEOW MEOOOOW MEEEEEEOOOOOOW MEOW MEEOOW ME MEOOOOW.










The intention of this Appendix is to give some more particular
Mew meeeeooow me meow Meeeeoow me me meow meow meow meeeeoooow

explication of the origin and nature of Justice, and to mark some
meeeeeeeeow me mew meeoow mew meooow me Meeeoow, mew me meow meow

differences between it and the other virtues.
meeeeooooow meeeeow me mew mew meoow meoooow.




The social virtues of humanity and benevolence exert their
Mew meeeow meeooow me meeeeoow mew meeeeeeeoow meoow meoow

influence immediately by a direct tendency or instinct, which
meeeeooow meeooooooow me m meooow meeeeeow me meeeeeow, meoow

chiefly keeps in view the simple object, moving the affections,
meeeeow meeow me meow mew meeeow meeeow, meeoow mew meooooooow,

and comprehends not any scheme or system, nor the consequences
mew meoooooooow mew mew meeeow me meooow, mew mew meeeeoooooow

resulting from the concurrence, imitation, or example of others.
meoooooow meow mew meoooooooow, meeeoooow, me meeooow me meooow.

A parent flies to the relief of his child; transported by that
M meooow meoow me mew meooow me mew meeow; meeooooooow me meow

natural sympathy which actuates him, and which affords no leisure
meeeoow meeeooow meeow meeeeeow mew, mew meoow meeooow me meoooow

to reflect on the sentiments or conduct of the rest of mankind in
me meoooow me mew meeeeeeeow me meeeoow me mew meow me meeeoow me

like circumstances. A generous man cheerfully embraces an
meow meeeeeeeeooow. M meooooow mew meeeeeooow meeeooow me

opportunity of serving his friend; because he then feels himself
meeeeeeooow me meeooow mew meeeow; meeeoow me meow meeow meeeeow

under the dominion of the beneficent affections, nor is he
meoow mew meeeooow me mew meooooooow meeeeeooow, mew me me

concerned whether any other person in the universe were ever
meeooooow meeeeow mew meeow meeeow me mew meeeooow meow meow

before actuated by such noble motives, or will ever afterwards
meeoow meeeooow me meow meeow meeeeow, me meow meow meooooooow

prove their influence. In all these cases the social passions
meeow meeow meeooooow. Me mew meoow meeow mew meeoow meeeeeow

have in view a single individual object, and pursue the safety or
meow me meow m meeeow meeeooooow meeoow, mew meeeow mew meeoow me

happiness alone of the person loved and esteemed. With this they
meeeoooow meoow me mew meeeow meoow mew meeeooow. Meow meow meow

are satisfied: in this they acquiesce. And as the good, resulting
mew meeeeeoow: me meow meow meeeeeoow. Mew me mew meow, meeeeeoow

from their benign influence, is in itself complete and entire, it
meow meoow meeeow meeeeeoow, me me meeoow meeeeeow mew meooow, me

also excites the moral sentiment of approbation, without any
meow meoooow mew meoow meeeoooow me meeeoooooow, meoooow mew

reflection on farther consequences, and without any more enlarged
meeeeeeoow me meeeoow meeeeeeoooow, mew meoooow mew meow meeoooow

views of the concurrence or imitation of the other members of
meeow me mew meeeoooooow me meeeeeoow me mew meeow meoooow me

society. On the contrary, were the generous friend or
meeeoow. Me mew meeeeeow, meow mew meeeeoow meeeow me

disinterested patriot to stand alone in the practice of
meeeoooooooow meeeeow me meeow meoow me mew meeeeoow me

beneficence, this would rather inhance his value in our eyes, and
meeeoooooow, meow meeow meeoow meeeoow mew meeow me mew meow, mew

join the praise of rarity and novelty to his other more exalted
meow mew meeeow me meooow mew meeooow me mew meeow meow meeeoow

merits.
meooow.




The case is not the same with the social virtues of justice and
Mew meow me mew mew meow meow mew meooow meoooow me meoooow mew

fidelity. They are highly useful, or indeed absolutely necessary
meeeeeow. Meow mew meeoow meooow, me meeoow meooooooow meeeeeeow

to the well-being of mankind: but the benefit resulting from them
me mew meow-meoow me meeeoow: mew mew meeooow meoooooow meow meow

is not the consequence of every individual single act; but arises
me mew mew meoooooooow me meoow meeoooooow meeeow mew; mew meeeow

from the whole scheme or system concurred in by the whole, or the
meow mew meeow meeeow me meeeow meeeeeoow me me mew meeow, me mew

greater part of the society. General peace and order are the
meeooow meow me mew meeeeow. Meeeeow meeow mew meoow mew mew

attendants of justice or a general abstinence from the
meeeeeeoow me meoooow me m meeeeow meeeeoooow meow mew

possessions of others; but a particular regard to the particular
meeeeeeeoow me meooow; mew m meeeeeeoow meeoow me mew meeeeeooow

right of one individual citizen may frequently, considered in
meeow me mew meeeeeeeow meeeeow mew meooooooow, meeeeoooow me

itself, be productive of pernicious consequences. The result of
meeeow, me meeeeeeeow me meeeeeeoow meeoooooooow. Mew meeeow me

the individual acts is here, in many instances, directly opposite
mew meeeooooow meow me meow, me meow meeeeeoow, meeeeeow meeeooow

to that of the whole system of actions; and the former may be
me meow me mew meeow meeoow me meeeeow; mew mew meooow mew me

extremely hurtful, while the latter is, to the highest degree,
meeeoooow meeeeow, meeow mew meeeow me, me mew meeooow meooow,

advantageous. Riches, inherited from a parent, are, in a bad
meooooooooow. Meeeow, meeeeeoow meow m meeoow, mew, me m mew

man's hand, the instrument of mischief. The right of succession
mew'm meow, mew meeeeeeeow me meeeeeow. Mew meeow me meeeooooow

may, in one instance, be hurtful. Its benefit arises only from
mew, me mew meeeeeow, me meoooow. Mew meeooow meeeow meow meow

the observance of the general rule; and it is sufficient, if
mew meeeooooow me mew meeeeow meow; mew me me meeeeoooow, me

compensation be thereby made for all the ills and inconveniences
meeeeeeoooow me meeeeow meow mew mew mew meow mew meeeooooooooow

which flow from particular characters and situations.
meeow meow meow meooooooow meeeeeeoow mew meeeooooow.




Cyrus, young and unexperienced, considered only the individual
Meoow, meeow mew meeeeeeeeeeow, meooooooow meow mew meeeeeeoow

case before him, and reflected on a limited fitness and
meow meeoow mew, mew meeeoooow me m meeeeow meoooow mew

convenience, when he assigned the long coat to the tall boy, and
meeeeeoooow, meow me meeeooow mew meow meow me mew meow mew, mew

the short coat to the other of smaller size. His governor
mew meeow meow me mew meoow me meoooow meow. Mew meeeeoow

instructed him better, while he pointed out more enlarged views
meooooooow mew meooow, meoow me meeooow mew meow meeoooow meoow

and consequences, and informed his pupil of the general,
mew meooooooooow, mew meeeeoow mew meeow me mew meeeoow,

inflexible rules, necessary to support general peace and order in
meeeeeooow meeow, meeeeeeow me meeooow meeeoow meeow mew meeow me

society.
meeooow.




The happiness and prosperity of mankind, arising from the social
Mew meeeoooow mew meeoooooow me meeeeow, meoooow meow mew meeeow

virtue of benevolence and its subdivisions, may be compared to a
meeeow me meeeeooooow mew mew meeeeoooooow, mew me meooooow me m

wall, built by many hands, which still rises by each stone that
meow, meeow me meow meeow, meoow meoow meoow me meow meoow meow

is heaped upon it, and receives increase proportional to the
me meeeow meow me, mew meeeeeow meeeeoow meeeeeeeeeow me mew

diligence and care of each workman. The same happiness, raised by
meeeeeoow mew meow me meow meeeoow. Mew meow meeeeeoow, meeoow me

the social virtue of justice and its subdivisions, may be
mew meeoow meeeow me meeeeow mew mew meeeeoooooow, mew me

compared to the building of a vault, where each individual stone
meeeooow me mew meeoooow me m meeow, meeow meow meeoooooow meeow

would, of itself, fall to the ground; nor is the whole fabric
meoow, me meooow, meow me mew meeeow; mew me mew meoow meeeow

supported but by the mutual assistance and combination of its
meeeeooow mew me mew meeeow meeoooooow mew meeeeeeooow me mew

corresponding parts.
meeeeeoooooow meoow.




All the laws of nature, which regulate property, as well as all
Mew mew meow me meeoow, meoow meeeeoow meeeooow, me meow me mew

civil laws, are general, and regard alone some essential
meeow meow, mew meoooow, mew meeoow meoow meow meeooooow

circumstances of the case, without taking into consideration the
meeeeeeooooow me mew meow, meeeeow meooow meow meeeeeeeeooow mew

characters, situations, and connexions of the person concerned,
meeeeeeoow, meeeeeeeow, mew meooooooow me mew meooow meeooooow,

or any particular consequences which may result from the
me mew meeeooooow meeoooooooow meeow mew meeoow meow mew

determination of these laws in any particular case which offers.
meeeeeeeoooow me meeow meow me mew meeeeeeoow meow meoow meeoow.

They deprive, without scruple, a beneficent man of all his
Meow meoooow, meeeeow meeooow, m meeeeeeoow mew me mew mew

possessions, if acquired by mistake, without a good title; in
meeeeeeeeow, me meooooow me meeeoow, meeeeow m meow meoow; me

order to bestow them on a selfish miser, who has already heaped
meoow me meeoow meow me m meeooow meoow, mew mew meeeeow meooow

up immense stores of superfluous riches. Public utility requires
me meeeoow meooow me meeeoooooow meeeow. Meeeow meeeoow meooooow

that property should be regulated by general inflexible rules;
meow meeeeoow meooow me meeeeeoow me meeeoow meeeeoooow meoow;

and though such rules are adopted as best serve the same end of
mew meooow meow meeow mew meeeeow me meow meeow mew meow mew me

public utility, it is impossible for them to prevent all
meeoow meeooow, me me meooooooow mew meow me meeeeow mew

particular hardships, or make beneficial consequences result from
meeoooooow meeeeooow, me meow meooooooow meeeeeeoooow meeoow meow

every individual case. It is sufficient, if the whole plan or
meoow meeeeeooow meow. Me me meeoooooow, me mew meoow meow me

scheme be necessary to the support of civil society, and if the
meeoow me meeooooow me mew meoooow me meeow meeooow, mew me mew

balance of good, in the main, do thereby preponderate much above
meeooow me meow, me mew meow, me meeooow meeoooooooow meow meeow

that of evil. Even the general laws of the universe, though
meow me meow. Meow mew meeeeow meow me mew meooooow, meooow

planned by infinite wisdom, cannot exclude all evil or
meoooow me meeoooow meeeow, meeeow meeooow mew meow me

inconvenience in every particular operation.
meeeeeeooooow me meoow meooooooow meoooooow.




It has been asserted by some, that justice arises from Human
Me mew meow meeeooow me meow, meow meoooow meeoow meow Meeow

Conventions, and proceeds from the voluntary choice, consent, or
Meeeeeeeoow, mew meooooow meow mew meeooooow meooow, meeeeow, me

combination of mankind. If by CONVENTION be here meant a PROMISE
meeeeeeeoow me meoooow. Me me MEEEEEEEOW me meow meeow m MEEEOOW

(which is the most usual sense of the word) nothing can be more
(meoow me mew meow meeow meeow me mew meow) meoooow mew me meow

absurd than this position. The observance of promises is itself
meeoow meow meow meeeooow. Mew meooooooow me meooooow me meooow

one of the most considerable parts of justice, and we are not
mew me mew meow meeeooooooow meeow me meeeeow, mew me mew mew

surely bound to keep our word because we have given our word to
meeeow meoow me meow mew meow meeeoow me meow meeow mew meow me

keep it. But if by convention be meant a sense of common
meow me. Mew me me meeeeeooow me meeow m meoow me meeoow

interest, which sense each man feels in his own breast, which he
meeoooow, meoow meeow meow mew meeow me mew mew meooow, meeow me

remarks in his fellows, and which carries him, in concurrence
meeeeow me mew meeeoow, mew meoow meeooow mew, me meeeeeeooow

with others, into a general plan or system of actions, which
meow meooow, meow m meoooow meow me meeoow me meeeeow, meeow

tends to public utility; it must be owned, that, in this sense,
meoow me meeeow meeeoow; me meow me meeow, meow, me meow meoow,

justice arises from human conventions. For if it be allowed (what
meeooow meeoow meow meoow meoooooooow. Mew me me me meeeeow (meow

is, indeed, evident) that the particular consequences of a
me, meeeow, meeeoow) meow mew meeeeeeeow meeeeeeeeeow me m

particular act of justice may be hurtful to the public as well as
meeeeeeeow mew me meeeeow mew me meoooow me mew meeoow me meow me

to individuals; it follows that every man, in embracing that
me meeeeeeooow; me meeeoow meow meoow mew, me meeeeeeow meow

virtue, must have an eye to the whole plan or system, and must
meeoow, meow meow me mew me mew meoow meow me meeoow, mew meow

expect the concurrence of his fellows in the same conduct and
meooow mew meeeeeeeoow me mew meoooow me mew meow meeeeow mew

behaviour. Did all his views terminate in the consequences of
meoooooow. Mew mew mew meoow meeooooow me mew meeeeeeeeeow me

each act of his own, his benevolence and humanity, as well as his
meow mew me mew mew, mew meeeeeeeeow mew meeeeoow, me meow me mew

self-love, might often prescribe to him measures of conduct very
meow-meow, meoow meeow meoooooow me mew meeeooow me meeeeow meow

different from those which are agreeable to the strict rules of
meeeoooow meow meoow meeow mew meeooooow me mew meeeow meoow me

right and justice.
meoow mew meeeoow.




Thus, two men pull the oars of a boat by common convention for
Meow, mew mew meow mew meow me m meow me meooow meeoooooow mew

common interest, without any promise or contract; thus gold and
meeeow meeeeeow, meeeeow mew meeooow me meeeeeow; meow meow mew

silver are made the measures of exchange; thus speech and words
meeeow mew meow mew meeeooow me meeeeoow; meow meeeow mew meoow

and language are fixed by human convention and agreement.
mew meeeeeow mew meeow me meoow meeeeeeeow mew meeooooow.

Whatever is advantageous to two or more persons, if all perform
Meeeeoow me meeoooooooow me mew me meow meeooow, me mew meeeeow

their part; but what loses all advantage if only one perform, can
meeow meow; mew meow meoow mew meeeoooow me meow mew meeeoow, mew

arise from no other principle There would otherwise be no motive
meeow meow me meeow meeeoooow Meoow meeow meeeoooow me me meooow

for any one of them to enter into that scheme of conduct.
mew mew mew me meow me meeow meow meow meeeow me meoooow.




[Footnote: This theory concerning the origin of property, and
[Meooooow: Meow meeeow meeeooooow mew meeeow me meeoooow, mew

consequently of justice, is, in the main, the same with that
meooooooooow me meoooow, me, me mew meow, mew meow meow meow

hinted at and adopted by Grotius, 'Hinc discimus, quae fuerit
meeeow me mew meeeeow me Meeeoow, 'Meow meeeeeow, meow meeeow

causa, ob quam a primaeva communione rerum primo mobilium, deinde
meoow, me meow m meeeooow meeeooooow meeow meeow meeeooow, meeeow

et immobilinm discessum est: nimirum quod cum non contenti
me meooooooow meeooooow mew: meoooow meow mew mew meeoooow

homines vesci sponte natis, antra habitare, corpore aut nudo
meeeeow meoow meeoow meoow, meeow meooooow, meoooow mew meow

agere, aut corticibus arborum ferarumve pellibus vestito, vitae
meoow, mew meooooooow meeeoow meeooooow meooooow meeeoow, meoow

genus exquisitius delegissent, industria opus fuit, quam singuli
meeow meeeeooooow meeeeeeeeow, meoooooow meow meow, meow meeeeow

rebus singulls adhiberent. Quo minus autem fructus in commune
meeow meeoooow meeoooooow. Mew meoow meeow meeooow me meeeeow

conferrentur, primum obstitit locorum, in quae homines
meeeeeeoooow, meooow meeeooow meeeoow, me meow meoooow

discesserunt, distantia, deinde justitiae et amoris defectus, per
meooooooooow, meeeeooow, meooow meoooooow me meeeow meeeeoow, mew

quem fiebat, ut nee in labore, nee in consumtione fructuum, quae
meow meeeow, me mew me meeoow, mew me meeeeeoooow meeeeoow, meow

debebat, aequalitas servaretur. Simul discimus, quomodo res in
meeeoow, meeeeeooow meeeeeeeow. Meoow meeeooow, meeeeow mew me

proprietatem iverint; non animi actu solo, neque enim scire alii
meeeeeeeooow meoooow; mew meoow meow meow, meoow meow meeow meow

poterant, quid alil suum esse vellent, ut eo abstinerent, et idem
meeeooow, meow meow meow meow meeeeow, me me meoooooooow, me meow

velle plures poterant; sed pacto quodam aut expresso, ut per
meoow meeeow meeeeeow; mew meeow meooow mew meooooow, me mew

divisionem, aut tacito, ut per occupationem.' De jure belli et
meeeeeeeow, mew meooow, me mew meeoooooooow.' Me meow meoow me

pacis. Lib. ii. cap. 2. sec. 2. art. 4 and 5.]
meeow. Mew. me. mew. m. mew. m. mew. m mew m.]




The word NATURAL is commonly taken in so many senses and is of so
Mew meow MEEEEOW me meeoooow meeow me me meow meeoow mew me me me

loose a signification, that it seems vain to dispute whether
meoow m meeeeeeeeooow, meow me meoow meow me meeeoow meeeeow

justice be natural or not. If self-love, if benevolence be
meoooow me meoooow me mew. Me meow-meow, me meeeeeeooow me

natural to man; if reason and forethought be also natural; then
meoooow me mew; me meooow mew meeeeooooow me meow meeooow; meow

may the same epithet be applied to justice, order, fidelity,
mew mew meow meoooow me meeeoow me meeeeow, meoow, meooooow,

property, society. Men's inclination, their necessities, lead
meeeeoow, meeeeow. Mew'm meeeoooooow, meoow meeeeeeeeow, meow

them to combine; their understanding and experience tell them
meow me meoooow; meoow meoooooooooow mew meeoooooow meow meow

that this combination is impossible where each governs himself by
meow meow meeeeeeooow me meeoooooow meoow meow meeeoow meeeeow me

no rule, and pays no regard to the possessions of others: and
me meow, mew meow me meooow me mew meeeeeeeoow me meeoow: mew

from these passions and reflections conjoined, as soon as we
meow meoow meeeooow mew meeeeeeeeow meeeeooow, me meow me me

observe like passions and reflections in others, the sentiment of
meeooow meow meeoooow mew meeeeeeooow me meooow, mew meeeeeoow me

justice, throughout all ages, has infallibly and certainly had
meeeoow, meeeooooow mew meow, mew meeeooooow mew meeooooow mew

place to some degree or other in every individual of the human
meeow me meow meeeow me meeow me meeow meeeeeeeow me mew meeow

species. In so sagacious an animal, what necessarily arises from
meeooow. Me me meeeeeeow me meeeow, meow meoooooooow meooow meow

the exertion of his intellectual faculties may justly be esteemed
mew meeoooow me mew meooooooooow meeeeooow mew meooow me meeoooow

natural.
meeeeow.




[Footnote: Natural may be opposed, either to what is UNUSUAL,
[Meeeeeow: Meeeeow mew me meoooow, meeoow me meow me MEEOOOW,

MIRACULOUS or ARTIFICIAL. In the two former senses, justice and
MEEEEEOOOW me MEEEEEEEOW. Me mew mew meeoow meooow, meeooow mew

property are undoubtedly natural. But as they suppose reason,
meooooow mew meeeeeeeoow meeooow. Mew me meow meeeeow meeoow,

forethought, design, and a social union and confederacy among
meeooooooow, meooow, mew m meeeow meeow mew meeeeeeeeow meoow

men, perhaps that epithet cannot strictly, in the last sense, be
mew, meeeeow meow meoooow meeoow meeeooow, me mew meow meeow, me

applied to them. Had men lived without society, property had
meeeeow me meow. Mew mew meeow meeeeow meoooow, meeoooow mew

never been known, and neither justice nor injustice had ever
meeow meow meeow, mew meeeoow meoooow mew meeeeeeow mew meow

existed. But society among human creatures had been impossible
meoooow. Mew meeeeow meoow meoow meeeoooow mew meow meeoooooow

without reason and forethought. Inferior animals, that unite, are
meeooow meooow mew meoooooooow. Meeoooow meeeoow, meow meoow, mew

guided by instinct, which supplies the place for reason. But all
meeeow me meeeooow, meeow meeoooow mew meoow mew meeoow. Mew mew

these disputes are merely verbal.]
meeow meeoooow mew meooow meooow.]




Among all civilized nations it has been the constant endeavour to
Meeow mew meeooooow meeooow me mew meow mew meooooow meeooooow me

remove everything arbitrary and partial from the decision of
meooow meeeeoooow meeeeeeow mew meeeeow meow mew meeeeoow me

property, and to fix the sentence of judges by such general views
meeeeoow, mew me mew mew meooooow me meooow me meow meeooow meeow

and considerations as may be equal to every member of society.
mew meeeeeooooooow me mew me meeow me meoow meeeow me meoooow.

For besides, that nothing could be more dangerous than to
Mew meeeeow, meow meeooow meoow me meow meeeoooow meow me

accustom the bench, even in the smallest instance, to regard
meeoooow mew meeow, meow me mew meeeeeow meeeeeow, me meeoow

private friendship or enmity; it is certain, that men, where they
meeeeow meooooooow me meeoow; me me meeooow, meow mew, meeow meow

imagine that there was no other reason for the preference of
meeeeow meow meoow mew me meoow meeeow mew mew meeeeeooow me

their adversary but personal favour, are apt to entertain the
meeow meeooooow mew meeeeoow meooow, mew mew me meeeeeoow mew

strongest ill-will against the magistrates and judges. When
meeooooow mew-meow meoooow mew meoooooooow mew meooow. Meow

natural reason, therefore, points out no fixed view of public
meeeeow meeoow, meeeeeoow, meooow mew me meoow meow me meeeow

utility by which a controversy of property can be decided,
meeeoow me meeow m meeeoooooow me meeeeeow mew me meoooow,

positive laws are often framed to supply its place, and direct
meeoooow meow mew meeow meooow me meooow mew meoow, mew meeoow

the procedure of all courts of judicature. Where these too fail,
mew meeooooow me mew meeoow me meeeeoooow. Meoow meeow mew meow,

as often happens, precedents are called for; and a former
me meeow meeeoow, meeeeeooow mew meeeow mew; mew m meeoow

decision, though given itself without any sufficient reason,
meeeeoow, meooow meeow meeeow meeeeow mew meeeeoooow meeeow,

justly becomes a sufficient reason for a new decision. If direct
meooow meeeoow m meeeeeooow meooow mew m mew meeoooow. Me meeoow

laws and precedents be wanting, imperfect and indirect ones are
meow mew meeeeeeoow me meoooow, meeeoooow mew meeeeeow meow mew

brought in aid; and the controverted case is ranged under them by
meeeoow me mew; mew mew meeeeoooooow meow me meeeow meeow meow me

analogical reasonings and comparisons, and similitudes, and
meeeeeooow meooooooow mew meeeeeeooow, mew meeeeeeeeow, mew

correspondencies, which are often more fanciful than real. In
meeeeeooooooooow, meeow mew meeow meow meeeeoow meow meow. Me

general, it may safely be affirmed that jurisprudence is, in this
meeeoow, me mew meeoow me meeeeoow meow meeeeeeeeooow me, me meow

respect, different from all the sciences; and that in many of its
meoooow, meeooooow meow mew mew meeeooow; mew meow me meow me mew

nicer questions, there cannot properly be said to be truth or
meeow meeeeeoow, meeow meeoow meooooow me meow me me meoow me

falsehood on either side. If one pleader bring the case under any
meeooooow me meeeow meow. Me mew meoooow meoow mew meow meeow mew

former law or precedent, by a refined analogy or comparison; the
meeoow mew me meeeoooow, me m meoooow meoooow me meeeeeeeow; mew

opposite pleader is not at a loss to find an opposite analogy or
meeeeoow meeooow me mew me m meow me meow me meeeooow meeooow me

comparison: and the preference given by the judge is often
meeoooooow: mew mew meeoooooow meeow me mew meoow me meoow

founded more on taste and imagination than on any solid argument.
meeeeow meow me meoow mew meeeeooooow meow me mew meeow meooooow.

Public utility is the general object of all courts of judicature;
Meeeow meeeoow me mew meeeeow meooow me mew meeeow me meeeeoooow;

and this utility too requires a stable rule in all controversies:
mew meow meeeoow mew meeoooow m meeeow meow me mew meeeeeeeeeoow:

but where several rules, nearly equal and indifferent, present
mew meoow meeeoow meoow, meeoow meoow mew meeeeeeeeow, meeooow

themselves, it is a very slight turn of thought which fixes the
meeoooooow, me me m meow meeeow meow me meeeoow meoow meeow mew

decision in favour of either party.
meeeeeow me meooow me meeoow meoow.










[Footnote: That there be a separation or distinction of
[Meeeooow: Meow meoow me m meeeeeeoow me meeeoooooow me

possessions, and that this separation be steady and constant;
meeeeeeeoow, mew meow meow meeoooooow me meeoow mew meeoooow;

this is absolutely required by the interests of society, and
meow me meeeeeooow meeoooow me mew meeeeeoow me meoooow, mew

hence the origin of justice and property. What possessions are
meoow mew meooow me meeeeow mew meooooow. Meow meeeoooooow mew

assigned to particular persons; this is, generally speaking,
meooooow me meeeeeeeow meeeeow; meow me, meeeeeoow meeeeeow,

pretty indifferent; and is often determined by very frivolous
meeeow meeeeeeeoow; mew me meoow meeeooooow me meow meeeeooow

views and considerations. We shall mention a few particulars.
meoow mew meeeeeeoooooow. Me meoow meeooow m mew meeeeeeooow.




Were a society formed among several independent members, the most
Meow m meeeeow meeeow meeow meeeeow meeeeeeeeow meeooow, mew meow

obvious rule, which could be agreed on, would be to annex
meeeoow meow, meeow meeow me meeeow me, meoow me me meeow

property to PRESENT possession, and leave every one a right to
meeeeeow me MEEEOOW meeeeeeeow, mew meeow meeow mew m meeow me

what he at present enjoys. The relation of possession, which
meow me me meeeoow meeoow. Mew meeeeoow me meooooooow, meeow

takes place between the person and the object, naturally draws on
meoow meoow meeooow mew meeoow mew mew meooow, meeeeeeow meoow me

the relation of property.
mew meeeooow me meeoooow.




For a like reason, occupation or first possession becomes the
Mew m meow meeeow, meeoooooow me meoow meeeeeeeow meoooow mew

foundation of property.
meooooooow me meeoooow.




Where a man bestows labour and industry upon any object, which
Meeow m mew meeooow meeoow mew meeeeoow meow mew meeeow, meoow

before belonged to no body; as in cutting down and shaping a
meeoow meooooow me me meow; me me meeooow meow mew meeeeow m

tree, in cultivating a field, &c., the alterations, which he
meow, me meeeeooooow m meeow, &m., mew meeeeeeeoow, meeow me

produces, causes a relation between him and the object, and
meeoooow, meeeow m meooooow meoooow mew mew mew meeoow, mew

naturally engages us to annex it to him by the new relation of
meeeeooow meeooow me me meoow me me mew me mew mew meeeooow me

property. This cause here concurs with the public utility, which
meooooow. Meow meoow meow meeeeow meow mew meeoow meeeeow, meoow

consists in the encouragement given to industry and labour.
meeeeoow me mew meeeoooooooow meeow me meooooow mew meeeow.




Perhaps too, private humanity towards the possessor concurs, in
Meeeoow mew, meeeoow meeeeeow meeooow mew meeeeeeow meeeoow, me

this instance, with the other motives, and engages us to leave
meow meeeeoow, meow mew meeow meeooow, mew meoooow me me meeow

with him what he has acquired by his sweat and labour; and what
meow mew meow me mew meooooow me mew meoow mew meeoow; mew meow

he has flattered himself in the constant enjoyment of. For though
me mew meeeeeoow meeeeow me mew meooooow meeeoooow me. Mew meooow

private humanity can, by no means, be the origin of justice;
meeeeow meeeeoow mew, me me meeow, me mew meeeow me meeeeow;

since the latter virtue so often contradicts the former; yet when
meoow mew meooow meooow me meeow meeooooooow mew meeoow; mew meow

the rule of separate and constant possession is once formed by
mew meow me meooooow mew meeeooow meooooooow me meow meooow me

the indispensable necessities of society, private humanity, and
mew meeeeeeeoooow meeeoooooow me meeeeow, meeooow meeeooow, mew

an aversion to the doing a hardship to another, may, in a
me meeeooow me mew meoow m meooooow me meeooow, mew, me m

particular instance, give rise to a particular rule of property.
meeeeeooow meeoooow, meow meow me m meeeeeeeow meow me meeoooow.




I am much inclined to think, that the right succession or
M me meow meeeooow me meeow, meow mew meoow meeeeeeoow me

inheritance much depends on those connexions of the imagination,
meeeeeeeeow meow meoooow me meeow meeeeeeoow me mew meeeeeeeoow,

and that the relation to a former proprietor begetting a relation
mew meow mew meeeooow me m meeeow meooooooow meeeeeeow m meeeooow

to the object, is the cause why the property is transferred to a
me mew meeoow, me mew meeow mew mew meeeooow me meeooooooow me m

man after the death of his kinsman. It is true; industry is more
mew meeow mew meoow me mew meeeoow. Me me meow; meeoooow me meow

encouraged by the transference of possession to children or near
meeeeoooow me mew meeeeeeeooow me meeoooooow me meeoooow me meow

relations: but this consideration will only have place in a
meeeeooow: mew meow meeeeeoooooow meow meow meow meeow me m

cultivated society; whereas the right of succession is regarded
meeoooooow meeooow; meeeoow mew meoow me meooooooow me meeeooow

even among the greatest Barbarians.
meow meoow mew meeeooow Meeoooooow.




Acquisition of property by accession can be explained no way but
Meeooooooow me meooooow me meeeeeeow mew me meeeeeeow me mew mew

by having recourse to the relations and connexions of the
me meeoow meeeooow me mew meeeeeeow mew meeeeeooow me mew

imaginations.
meeeeeeeeeow.




The property of rivers, by the laws of most nations, and by the
Mew meeeeoow me meeoow, me mew meow me meow meeooow, mew me mew

natural turn of our thoughts, is attributed to the proprietors of
meeooow meow me mew meeeeeow, me meeeooooow me mew meoooooooow me

their banks, excepting such vast rivers as the Rhine or the
meoow meeow, meeeeooow meow meow meooow me mew Meoow me mew

Danube, which seem too large to follow as an accession to the
Meeoow, meoow meow mew meeow me meeoow me me meeooooow me mew

property of the neighbouring fields. Yet even these rivers are
meeeeeow me mew meooooooooow meeeow. Mew meow meoow meeeow mew

considered as the property of that nation, through whose
meeeeeeeow me mew meeeooow me meow meeoow, meeooow meoow

dominions they run; the idea of a nation being of a suitable bulk
meeeoooow meow mew; mew meow me m meeeow meeow me m meeeeeow meow

to correspond with them, and bear them such a relation in the
me meeeeeeoow meow meow, mew meow meow meow m meeeooow me mew

fancy.
meeow.




The accessions, which are made to land, bordering upon rivers,
Mew meeeeeeeow, meoow mew meow me meow, meeeeeoow meow meooow,

follow the land, say the civilians, provided it be made by what
meeeow mew meow, mew mew meeeeeeow, meeeeeow me me meow me meow

they call alluvion, that is, insensibly and imperceptibly; which
meow meow meeeeeow, meow me, meeeooooow mew meeeeeeeeeoow; meoow

are circumstances, that assist the imagination in the
mew meoooooooooow, meow meeoow mew meeeeeoooow me mew

conjunction.
meeeeeeeeow.




Where there is any considerable portion torn at once from one
Meoow meeow me mew meeeeeooooow meeeeow meow me meow meow mew

bank and added to another, it becomes not his property, whose
meow mew meeow me meeooow, me meeooow mew mew meeoooow, meeow

land it falls on, till it unite with the land, and till the trees
meow me meoow me, meow me meeow meow mew meow, mew meow mew meoow

and plants have spread their roots into both. Before that, the
mew meeoow meow meeeow meeow meoow meow meow. Meeoow meow, mew

thought does not sufficiently join them.
meeeeow meow mew meeeeeeeeoow meow meow.




In short, we must ever distinguish between the necessity of a
Me meeow, me meow meow meeeeeoooow meeeoow mew meoooooow me m

separation and constancy in men's possession, and the rules,
meeeeeeeow mew meeeoooow me mew'm meeeeeeeow, mew mew meeow,

which assign particular objects to particular persons. The first
meeow meeoow meeeeoooow meeeoow me meeeeoooow meeeoow. Mew meeow

necessity is obvious, strong, and invincible: the latter may
meoooooow me meoooow, meeeow, mew meeeeeeoow: mew meeoow mew

depend on a public utility more light and frivolous, on the
meeoow me m meeeow meeeoow meow meeow mew meeooooow, me mew

sentiment of private humanity and aversion to private hardship,
meeeeooow me meeeoow meeeeeow mew meeeeoow me meeeoow meeeeoow,

on positive laws, on precedents, analogies, and very fine
me meeeeeow meow, me meeeeeooow, meeooooow, mew meow meow

connexions and turns of the imagination.]
meooooooow mew meoow me mew meeeeeeooow.]










We may just observe, before we conclude this subject, that after
Me mew meow meoooow, meeeow me meeoooow meow meeeoow, meow meeow

the laws of justice are fixed by views of general utility, the
mew meow me meoooow mew meeow me meoow me meoooow meeeeow, mew

injury, the hardship, the harm, which result to any individual
meooow, mew meeeooow, mew meow, meeow meeeow me mew meeeeeooow

from a violation of them, enter very much into consideration, and
meow m meeeeooow me meow, meoow meow meow meow meeeeeeeoooow, mew

are a great source of that universal blame which attends every
mew m meoow meeoow me meow meeeeooow meeow meoow meeooow meeow

wrong or iniquity. By the laws of society, this coat, this horse
meoow me meeeooow. Me mew meow me meeooow, meow meow, meow meoow

is mine, and OUGHT to remain perpetually in my possession: I
me meow, mew MEEOW me meeoow meeeeeeooow me me meeeeeooow: M

reckon on the secure enjoyment of it: by depriving me of it, you
meooow me mew meeoow meeeeeeow me me: me meeeeeeow me me me, mew

disappoint my expectations, and doubly displease me, and offend
meeoooooow me meeeeeeeeeow, mew meeoow meeeeeoow me, mew meooow

every bystander. It is a public wrong, so far as the rules of
meoow meeooooow. Me me m meeoow meoow, me mew me mew meoow me

equity are violated: it is a private harm, so far as an
meooow mew meeeeoow: me me m meeeeow meow, me mew me me

individual is injured. And though the second consideration could
meeeeeeeow me meoooow. Mew meeeow mew meeoow meeeeeoooooow meoow

have no place, were not the former previously established: for
meow me meeow, meow mew mew meeeow meeoooooow meeeeeeeoow: mew

otherwise the distinction of MINE and THINE would be unknown in
meeeeeeow mew meeeeooooow me MEOW mew MEOOW meeow me meeeoow me

society: yet there is no question but the regard to general good
meoooow: mew meeow me me meeeeoow mew mew meeoow me meeooow meow

is much enforced by the respect to particular. What injures the
me meow meeeooow me mew meoooow me meeeeeeoow. Meow meeooow mew

community, without hurting any individual, is often more lightly
meeeeeeow, meoooow meeeeow mew meeeeeeoow, me meoow meow meeooow

thought of. But where the greatest public wrong is also conjoined
meoooow me. Mew meeow mew meooooow meooow meoow me meow meeeoooow

with a considerable private one, no wonder the highest
meow m meeeeeeeeoow meoooow mew, me meooow mew meeeoow

disapprobation attends so iniquitous a behaviour.
meeeeeooooooow meeeeow me meooooooow m meeeoooow.










APPENDIX IV.
MEOOOOOW ME.




OF SOME VERBAL DISPUTES.
ME MEOW MEEEOW MEEEEOOW.










Nothing is more usual than for philosophers to encroach upon the
Meeooow me meow meeow meow mew meeeeeeeeeow me meeeooow meow mew

province of grammarians; and to engage in disputes of words,
meeeeoow me meeeeeeeoow; mew me meeoow me meeeooow me meeow,

while they imagine that they are handling controversies of the
meeow meow meeooow meow meow mew meeoooow meeeeeeeeeoow me mew

deepest importance and concern. It was in order to avoid
meeeoow meeoooooow mew meeooow. Me mew me meoow me meoow

altercations, so frivolous and endless, that I endeavoured to
meooooooooow, me meeeeeoow mew meeeoow, meow M meeooooooow me

state with the utmost caution the object of our present enquiry;
meoow meow mew meooow meeeoow mew meooow me mew meeooow meeooow;

and proposed simply to collect, on the one hand, a list of those
mew meeeeeow meooow me meeeeow, me mew mew meow, m meow me meoow

mental qualities which are the object of love or esteem, and form
meooow meeeoooow meeow mew mew meeeow me meow me meooow, mew meow

a part of personal merit; and on the other hand, a catalogue of
m meow me meeeooow meeow; mew me mew meeow meow, m meeeeooow me

those qualities which are the object of censure or reproach, and
meoow meoooooow meoow mew mew meeoow me meeooow me meeeooow, mew

which detract from the character of the person possessed of them;
meeow meeooow meow mew meoooooow me mew meeeow meeeeeoow me meow;

subjoining some reflections concerning the origin of these
meeeeeeoow meow meeeeeeooow meeeeoooow mew meeeow me meoow

sentiments of praise or blame. On all occasions, where there
meeeeeeoow me meooow me meoow. Me mew meeeoooow, meeow meoow

might arise the least hesitation, I avoided the terms VIRTUE and
meeow meoow mew meeow meeeooooow, M meeooow mew meoow MEOOOW mew

VICE; because some of those qualities, which I classed among the
MEOW; meeeeow meow me meeow meeeoooow, meeow M meeooow meeow mew

objects of praise, receive, in the English language, the
meeeeow me meeoow, meeeoow, me mew Meeooow meeeeoow, mew

appellation of TALENTS, rather than of virtues; as some of the
meeeeeeeeow me MEEEOOW, meeoow meow me meeeoow; me meow me mew

blameable or censurable qualities are often called defects,
meeeeooow me meeeeoooow meoooooow mew meeow meooow meeooow,

rather than vices. It may now, perhaps, be expected that before
meeoow meow meoow. Me mew mew, meoooow, me meeeeoow meow meooow

we conclude this moral enquiry, we should exactly separate the
me meeeooow meow meoow meeeoow, me meeoow meeeoow meooooow mew

one from the other; should mark the precise boundaries of virtues
mew meow mew meoow; meeoow meow mew meeeoow meooooooow me meeooow

and talents, vices and defects; and should explain the reason and
mew meeooow, meeow mew meeeeow; mew meooow meeeeow mew meooow mew

origin of that distinction. But in order to excuse myself from
meeoow me meow meeeeeeooow. Mew me meoow me meeoow meeeow meow

this undertaking, which would, at last, prove only a grammatical
meow meeeeeoooow, meeow meoow, me meow, meoow meow m meeeoooooow

enquiry, I shall subjoin the four following reflections, which
meeeoow, M meeow meeeeow mew meow meeeeeeow meeeeooooow, meoow

shall contain all that I intend to say on the present subject.
meeow meoooow mew meow M meooow me mew me mew meeeoow meeeeow.




First, I do not find that in the English, or any other modern
Meeow, M me mew meow meow me mew Meoooow, me mew meoow meooow

tongue, the boundaries are exactly fixed between virtues and
meeeow, mew meooooooow mew meeeeow meeow meeeoow meeeeow mew

talents, vices and defects, or that a precise definition can be
meeeeow, meeow mew meeeeow, me meow m meoooow meeeeeooow mew me

given of the one as contradistinguished from the other. Were we
meeow me mew mew me meeeoooooooooooooow meow mew meoow. Meow me

to say, for instance, that the esteemable qualities alone, which
me mew, mew meeoooow, meow mew meeoooooow meeeeeoow meeow, meeow

are voluntary, are entitled to the appellations of virtues; we
mew meeeeooow, mew meooooow me mew meeoooooooow me meoooow; me

should soon recollect the qualities of courage, equanimity,
meeeow meow meeeeeoow mew meeeeooow me meoooow, meeeooooow,

patience, self-command; with many others, which almost every
meeoooow, meow-meoooow; meow meow meeeow, meoow meeeow meoow

language classes under this appellation, though they depend
meooooow meeeoow meeow meow meeooooooow, meooow meow meooow

little or not at all on our choice. Should we affirm that the
meooow me mew me mew me mew meeeow. Meeoow me meooow meow mew

qualities alone, which prompt us to act our part in society, are
meeeeeeow meeow, meoow meooow me me mew mew meow me meoooow, mew

entitled to that honourable distinction; it must immediately
meeeeoow me meow meeoooooow meeeeooooow; me meow meoooooooow

occur that these are indeed the most valuable qualities, and are
meeow meow meoow mew meeoow mew meow meeeooow meoooooow, mew mew

commonly denominated the SOCIAL virtues; but that this very
meeeooow meeeeeoooow mew MEEEOW meoooow; mew meow meow meow

epithet supposes that there are also virtues of another species.
meoooow meeeeoow meow meeow mew meow meeeeow me meoooow meeeeow.

Should we lay hold of the distinction between INTELLECTUAL and
Meeeow me mew meow me mew meeeoooooow meeeoow MEEEEEEEEOOW mew

MORAL endowments, and affirm the last alone to be the real and
MEOOW meeeeoooow, mew meeeow mew meow meoow me me mew meow mew

genuine virtues, because they alone lead to action; we should
meeooow meeooow, meeeeow meow meoow meow me meooow; me meeeow

find that many of those qualities, usually called intellectual
meow meow meow me meeow meeeeeoow, meeeeow meooow meeeeeeeeeow

virtues, such as prudence, penetration, discernment, discretion,
meeooow, meow me meeeooow, meeeeeoooow, meeeeooooow, meeeeeeeow,

had also a considerable influence on conduct. The distinction
mew meow m meeeooooooow meeeeooow me meeooow. Mew meeeeooooow

between the heart and the head may also be adopted: the qualities
meeeoow mew meeow mew mew meow mew meow me meeeoow: mew meeeoooow

of the first may be defined such as in their immediate exertion
me mew meeow mew me meeeoow meow me me meoow meeooooow meooooow

are accompanied with a feeling of sentiment; and these alone may
mew meeeeeeooow meow m meeeoow me meeeeeoow; mew meoow meeow mew

be called the genuine virtues: but industry, frugality,
me meooow mew meeeoow meeeoow: mew meeeooow, meeeeeoow,

temperance, secrecy, perseverance, and many other laudable powers
meeeeeooow, meoooow, meeeeeooooow, mew meow meeow meooooow meeeow

or habits, generally stiled virtues are exerted without any
me meeeow, meeeeeeow meeoow meoooow mew meeeoow meoooow mew

immediate sentiment in the person possessed of them, and are only
meeeeeeow meeooooow me mew meooow meeooooow me meow, mew mew meow

known to him by their effects. It is fortunate, amidst all this
meoow me mew me meoow meeeoow. Me me meoooooow, meeoow mew meow

seeming perplexity, that the question, being merely verbal,
meeeoow meeeeeeoow, meow mew meeeooow, meeow meooow meeoow,

cannot possibly be of any importance. A moral, philosophical
meooow meeeooow me me mew meeeooooow. M meeow, meeeeeeeeooow

discourse needs not enter into all these caprices of language,
meoooooow meoow mew meoow meow mew meoow meeoooow me meooooow,

which are so variable in different dialects, and in different
meoow mew me meeeooow me meoooooow meooooow, mew me meoooooow

ages of the same dialect. But on the whole, it seems to me, that
meow me mew meow meoooow. Mew me mew meeow, me meeow me me, meow

though it is always allowed, that there are virtues of many
meooow me me meeeow meeeoow, meow meoow mew meoooow me meow

different kinds, yet, when a man is called virtuous, or is
meeeeeoow meoow, mew, meow m mew me meeeow meooooow, me me

denominated a man of virtue, we chiefly regard his social
meeooooooow m mew me meooow, me meeeeow meooow mew meeeow

qualities, which are, indeed, the most valuable. It is, at the
meeooooow, meoow mew, meeeow, mew meow meeeeeow. Me me, me mew

same time, certain, that any remarkable defect in courage,
meow meow, meeooow, meow mew meeoooooow meooow me meeooow,

temperance, economy, industry, understanding, dignity of mind,
meeeeeeeow, meeooow, meeeeeow, meeeeeeeoooow, meeeeow me meow,

would bereave even a very good-natured, honest man of this
meeow meeeoow meow m meow meow-meeeeow, meeeow mew me meow

honourable appellation. Who did ever say, except by way of irony,
meeeeeeeow meoooooooow. Mew mew meow mew, meooow me mew me meoow,

that such a one was a man of great virtue, but an egregious
meow meow m mew mew m mew me meeow meeeow, mew me meeeeeoow

blockhead?
meeeeeoow?




But, Secondly, it is no wonder that languages should not be very
Mew, Meeeeoow, me me me meeeow meow meoooooow meeeow mew me meow

precise in marking the boundaries between virtues and talents,
meeooow me meeeeow mew meeeeeeoow meeeeow meeeeow mew meeooow,

vices and defects; since there is so little distinction made in
meeow mew meeeoow; meeow meeow me me meeoow meeeoooooow meow me

our internal estimation of them. It seems indeed certain, that
mew meeeooow meeoooooow me meow. Me meoow meooow meeeeow, meow

the SENTIMENT of conscious worth, the self-satisfaction
mew MEEEEEEOW me meeeeooow meoow, mew meow-meeeeeeeooow

proceeding from a review of a man's own conduct and character; it
meeoooooow meow m meeoow me m mew'm mew meeeeow mew meeeeooow; me

seems certain, I say, that this sentiment, which, though the most
meeow meeooow, M mew, meow meow meoooooow, meoow, meeoow mew meow

common of all others, has no proper name in our language,
meeeow me mew meooow, mew me meeeow meow me mew meooooow,




[Footnote: The term, pride, is commonly taken in a bad sense; but
[Meeeeoow: Mew meow, meeow, me meeeooow meoow me m mew meoow; mew

this sentiment seems indifferent, and may be either good or bad,
meow meoooooow meoow meoooooooow, mew mew me meeeow meow me mew,

according as it is well or ill founded, and according to the
meoooooow me me me meow me mew meoooow, mew meoooooow me mew

other circumstances which accompany it. The French express this
meoow meoooooooooow meeow meeeeeeow me. Mew Meeoow meoooow meow

sentiment by the term, AMOUR PROPRE, but as they also express
meeeoooow me mew meow, MEOOW MEOOOW, mew me meow meow meeooow

self-love as well as vanity by the same term, there arises thence
meow-meow me meow me meeeow me mew meow meow, meoow meooow meeoow

a great confusion in Rochefoucault, and many of their moral
m meoow meeeoooow me Meeooooooooow, mew meow me meoow meoow

writers.]
meoooow.]




arises from the endowments of courage and capacity, industry and
meooow meow mew meeeeeeoow me meoooow mew meeeeoow, meeeeeow mew

ingenuity, as well as from any other mental excellencies. Who, on
meeeeeeow, me meow me meow mew meeow meeeow meeeeeooooow. Mew, me

the other hand, is not deeply mortified with reflecting on his
mew meeow meow, me mew meeoow meeeoooow meow meeeeeeeow me mew

own folly and dissoluteness, and feels not a secret sting or
mew meeow mew meeeeeeeoooow, mew meoow mew m meeoow meeow me

compunction whenever his memory presents any past occurrence,
meeeeeeeeow meooooow mew meeeow meeeooow mew meow meeoooooow,

where he behaved with stupidity of ill-manners? No time can
meoow me meeeeow meow meeooooow me mew-meeeeow? Me meow mew

efface the cruel ideas of a man's own foolish conduct, or of
meeoow mew meoow meeow me m mew'm mew meeeoow meeeeow, me me

affronts, which cowardice or impudence has brought upon him. They
meeoooow, meoow meeeoooow me meoooooow mew meeeeow meow mew. Meow

still haunt his solitary hours, damp his most aspiring thoughts,
meoow meoow mew meeoooow meeow, meow mew meow meeeeoow meooooow,

and show him, even to himself, in the most contemptible and most
mew meow mew, meow me meeeoow, me mew meow meeeeeeeeoow mew meow

odious colours imaginable.
meeoow meeooow meeeeeeeow.




What is there too we are more anxious to conceal from others than
Meow me meoow mew me mew meow meeeoow me meeooow meow meeeow meow

such blunders, infirmities, and meannesses, or more dread to have
meow meeeooow, meeeeeeeeow, mew meeeeeooow, me meow meoow me meow

exposed by raillery and satire? And is not the chief object of
meeeeow me meeeooow mew meeoow? Mew me mew mew meoow meeoow me

vanity, our bravery or learning, our wit or breeding, our
meooow, mew meeeoow me meeeeoow, mew mew me meooooow, mew

eloquence or address, our taste or abilities? These we display
meeooooow me meoooow, mew meeow me meoooooow? Meoow me meoooow

with care, if not with ostentation; and we commonly show more
meow meow, me mew meow meeooooooow; mew me meeeeoow meow meow

ambition of excelling in them, than even in the social virtues
meeeeoow me meeeoooow me meow, meow meow me mew meeeow meeooow

themselves, which are, in reality, of such superior excellence.
meeeeeeoow, meoow mew, me meoooow, me meow meeoooow meeeeeeoow.

Good-nature and honesty, especially the latter, are so
Meow-meeeow mew meeooow, meeoooooow mew meeeow, mew me

indispensably required, that, though the greatest censure attends
meeeeeoooooow meeeeoow, meow, meeoow mew meeeooow meoooow meoooow

any violation of these duties, no eminent praise follows such
mew meeeeooow me meeow meooow, me meeooow meeoow meoooow meow

common instances of them, as seem essential to the support of
meooow meeeeeoow me meow, me meow meeooooow me mew meeeeow me

human society. And hence the reason, in my opinion, why, though
meeow meeooow. Mew meoow mew meeoow, me me meeeeow, mew, meeoow

men often extol so liberally the qualities of their heart, they
mew meoow meeow me meeeoooow mew meeeoooow me meoow meoow, meow

are shy in commending the endowments of their head: because the
mew mew me meooooooow mew meeoooooow me meeow meow: meeeeow mew

latter virtues, being supposed more rare and extraordinary, are
meeoow meoooow, meoow meeeooow meow meow mew meeeeeeeeeeow, mew

observed to be the more usual objects of pride and self-conceit;
meeeeeow me me mew meow meeow meeooow me meeow mew meow-meeeoow;

and when boasted of, beget a strong suspicion of these
mew meow meoooow me, meoow m meeoow meeeeeoow me meoow

sentiments.
meeeeeeeow.




It is hard to tell, whether you hurt a man's character most by
Me me meow me meow, meeooow mew meow m mew'm meeeeeeow meow me

calling him a knave or a coward, and whether a beastly glutton or
meeeeow mew m meoow me m meeoow, mew meeooow m meoooow meoooow me

drunkard be not as odious and contemptible, as a selfish,
meooooow me mew me meeeow mew meeeeoooooow, me m meeeoow,

ungenerous miser. Give me my choice, and I would rather, for my
meeeeeeoow meeow. Meow me me meeeow, mew M meeow meeeow, mew me

own happiness and self-enjoyment, have a friendly, humane heart,
mew meeeoooow mew meow-meeeoooow, meow m meeeeoow, meeeow meeow,

than possess all the other virtues of Demosthenes and Philip
meow meeeeow mew mew meeow meoooow me Meeeoooooow mew Meeoow

united: but I would rather pass with the world for one endowed
meeeow: mew M meoow meeoow meow meow mew meoow mew mew meeeoow

with extensive genius and intrepid courage, and should thence
meow meoooooow meeeow mew meeeooow meeeoow, mew meeoow meooow

expect stronger instances of general applause and admiration. The
meooow meeeooow meeeoooow me meeooow meooooow mew meeeeoooow. Mew

figure which a man makes in life, the reception which he meets
meeeow meoow m mew meeow me meow, mew meeooooow meeow me meeow

with in company, the esteem paid him by his acquaintance; all
meow me meeeoow, mew meooow meow mew me mew meeeeeeeooow; mew

these advantages depend as much upon his good sense and
meoow meeoooooow meeeow me meow meow mew meow meeow mew

judgement, as upon any other part of his character. Had a man the
meoooooow, me meow mew meoow meow me mew meoooooow. Mew m mew mew

best intentions in the world, and were the farthest removed from
meow meeeeeeoow me mew meoow, mew meow mew meeoooow meeooow meow

all injustice and violence, he would never be able to make
mew meoooooow mew meeeeeow, me meeow meoow me meow me meow

himself be much regarded, without a moderate share, at least, of
meoooow me meow meooooow, meeeeow m meeeeoow meeow, me meeow, me

parts and understanding.
meeow mew meoooooooooow.




What is it then we can here dispute about? If sense and courage,
Meow me me meow me mew meow meeeeow meeow? Me meoow mew meeooow,

temperance and industry, wisdom and knowledge confessedly form a
meeeeeeeow mew meeeeeow, meooow mew meeeeeoow meeeeeeooow meow m

considerable part of PERSONAL MERIT: if a man, possessed of these
meeeeeeoooow meow me MEEEOOOW MEOOW: me m mew, meeeoooow me meoow

qualities, is both better satisfied with himself, and better
meeeoooow, me meow meeoow meoooooow meow meeeeow, mew meeeow

entitled to the good-will, esteem, and services of others, than
meeeeeow me mew meow-meow, meeoow, mew meeeeoow me meeoow, meow

one entirely destitute of them; if, in short, the SENTIMENTS are
mew meooooow meeeoooow me meow; me, me meoow, mew MEEOOOOOOW mew

similar which arise from these endowments and from the social
meeeoow meeow meeow meow meoow meeeooooow mew meow mew meooow

virtues; is there any reason for being so extremely scrupulous
meeeoow; me meeow mew meeeow mew meeow me meeeeeeow meeeeeooow

about a WORD, or disputing whether they be entitled to the
meeow m MEOW, me meeooooow meoooow meow me meooooow me mew

denomination of virtues? It may, indeed, be pretended, that the
meeeeoooooow me meeooow? Me mew, meeoow, me meoooooow, meow mew

sentiment of approbation, which those accomplishments produce,
meeeeeeow me meeeeeoooow, meeow meoow meoooooooooooow meeeoow,

besides its being INFERIOR, is also somewhat DIFFERENT from that
meeeeow mew meeow MEOOOOOW, me meow meeoooow MEOOOOOOW meow meow

which attends the virtues of justice and humanity. But this seems
meoow meeeoow mew meeeoow me meeooow mew meeeeeow. Mew meow meoow

not a sufficient reason for ranking them entirely under different
mew m meeeeeooow meeoow mew meoooow meow meeeeeow meeow meeeeooow

classes and appellations. The character of Caesar and that of
meeeoow mew meooooooooow. Mew meeeeeoow me Meeeow mew meow me

Cato, as drawn by Sallust, are both of them virtuous, in the
Meow, me meeow me Meeeoow, mew meow me meow meeeooow, me mew

strictest and most limited sense of the word; but in a different
meeooooow mew meow meeooow meoow me mew meow; mew me m meeeeeoow

way: nor are the sentiments entirely the same which arise from
mew: mew mew mew meeeeeeeow meeoooow mew meow meoow meoow meow

them. The one produces love, the other esteem: the one is
meow. Mew mew meeeooow meow, mew meoow meeoow: mew mew me

amiable, the other awful: we should wish to meet the one
meeooow, mew meoow meeow: me meeeow meow me meow mew mew

character in a friend; the other we should be ambitious of in
meoooooow me m meeoow; mew meeow me meeoow me meeeoooow me me

ourselves. In like manner the approbation, which attends
meeeeeoow. Me meow meooow mew meeeeeoooow, meeow meeeeow

temperance or industry or frugality, may be somewhat different
meeeeeeeow me meeeooow me meeooooow, mew me meooooow meoooooow

from that which is paid to the social virtues, without making
meow meow meoow me meow me mew meooow meoooow, meeooow meeeow

them entirely of a different species. And, indeed, we may
meow meeeeoow me m meeooooow meeeeow. Mew, meeoow, me mew

observe, that these endowments, more than the other virtues,
meoooow, meow meeow meeeeoooow, meow meow mew meoow meoooow,

produce not, all of them, the same kind of approbation. Good
meeeeow mew, mew me meow, mew meow meow me meeeeeeooow. Meow

sense and genius beget esteem and regard: wit and humour excite
meoow mew meooow meoow meeeow mew meooow: mew mew meeeow meeoow

love and affection.
meow mew meeeoooow.




[Footnote: Love and esteem are nearly the same passion, and arise
[Meeoooow: Meow mew meeeow mew meeoow mew meow meeooow, mew meeow

from similar causes. The qualities, which produce both, are such
meow meeeeow meooow. Mew meeeeeeow, meoow meeeoow meow, mew meow

as communicate pleasures. But where this pleasure is severe and
me meoooooooow meeooooow. Mew meeow meow meeeooow me meeoow mew

serious; or where its object is great, and makes a strong
meeeoow; me meoow mew meeoow me meoow, mew meoow m meeeow

impression, or where it produces any degree of humility and awe;
meooooooow, me meoow me meeoooow mew meooow me meeeeoow mew mew;

in all these cases, the passion, which arises from the pleasure,
me mew meoow meoow, mew meeeeow, meeow meeoow meow mew meeeeeow,

is more properly denominated esteem than love. Benevolence
me meow meeeeoow meoooooooow meeeow meow meow. Meeeeeeeeow

attends both; but is connected with love in a more eminent
meeeeow meow; mew me meeeeooow meow meow me m meow meeooow

degree. There seems to be still a stronger mixture of pride in
meeeow. Meeow meeow me me meeow m meeeeeow meoooow me meeow me

contempt than of humility in esteem; and the reason would not be
meeeeeow meow me meeeeoow me meooow; mew mew meooow meeow mew me

difficulty to one, who studied accurately the passions. All these
meeeeeeoow me mew, mew meeooow meeeeeeeow mew meooooow. Mew meoow

various mixtures and compositions and appearances of sentiment
meeeoow meeeeeow mew meeeeoooooow mew meeeeooooow me meoooooow

from a very curious subject of speculation, but are wide for our
meow m meow meoooow meeeoow me meeeeeeooow, mew mew meow mew mew

present purpose. Throughout this enquiry, we always consider in
meeooow meeeeow. Meeeeeeoow meow meeooow, me meooow meeeeoow me

general, what qualities are a subject of praise or of censure,
meeeeow, meow meoooooow mew m meoooow me meooow me me meeeoow,

without entering into all the minute differences of sentiment,
meeooow meeoooow meow mew mew meooow meoooooooow me meeeeooow,

which they excite. It is evident, that whatever is contemned, is
meeow meow meeeow. Me me meoooow, meow meeeeeow me meeeeeeow, me

also disliked, as well as what is hated; and we here endeavour to
meow meeeooow, me meow me meow me meoow; mew me meow meeeoooow me

take objects, according to their most simple views and
meow meeooow, meeeeeeow me meeow meow meeoow meeow mew

appearances. These sciences are but too apt to appear abstract to
meeeeeoooow. Meeow meeeeeow mew mew mew mew me meooow meeoooow me

common readers, even with all the precautions which we can take
meeoow meoooow, meow meow mew mew meeooooooow meoow me mew meow

to clear them from superfluous speculations, and bring them down
me meeow meow meow meeeeeoooow meeeeeeeeeow, mew meeow meow meow

to every capacity.]
me meoow meeoooow.]




Most people, I believe, will naturally, without premeditation,
Meow meeoow, M meeooow, meow meoooooow, meeeoow meeeeeeeoooow,

assent to the definition of the elegant and judicious poet:
meeoow me mew meeeooooow me mew meeeoow mew meeooooow meow:




Virtue (for mere good-nature is a fool)
Meooow (mew meow meow-meeeow me m meow)

Is sense and spirit with humanity.
Me meoow mew meeoow meow meeeeeow.




[Footnote: The Art of preserving Health. Book 4]
[Meeoooow: Mew Mew me meeeooooow Meeeow. Meow m]




What pretensions has a man to our generous assistance or good
Meow meeeeeoooow mew m mew me mew meeoooow meeeeeeeow me meow

offices, who has dissipated his wealth in profuse expenses, idle
meeeoow, mew mew meeeeeeoow mew meooow me meeeeow meeeeeow, meow

vanities, chimerical projects, dissolute pleasures or extravagant
meeeeoow, meeeeeooow meeeooow, meoooooow meeeeeeow me meeeeeeeeow

gaming? These vices (for we scruple not to call them such) bring
meeeow? Meeow meoow (mew me meeeeow mew me meow meow meow) meoow

misery unpitied, and contempt on every one addicted to them.
meooow meeoooow, mew meeeooow me meoow mew meooooow me meow.




Achaeus, a wise and prudent prince, fell into a fatal snare,
Meeooow, m meow mew meeooow meooow, meow meow m meeow meeow,

which cost him his crown and life, after having used every
meeow meow mew mew meeow mew meow, meoow meeeow meow meoow

reasonable precaution to guard himself against it. On that
meeeeeooow meeeeeeeow me meoow meeooow meeeeow me. Me meow

account, says the historian, he is a just object of regard and
meeeoow, meow mew meeeeeoow, me me m meow meooow me meeeow mew

compassion: his betrayers alone of hatred and contempt [Footnote:
meeoooooow: mew meeeeeoow meoow me meeeow mew meooooow [Meeeeoow:

Polybius, lib. iii. cap. 2].
Meeeeoow, mew. mew. mew. m].




The precipitate flight and improvident negligence of Pompey, at
Mew meeeeeoooow meeeow mew meeeeooooow meeoooooow me Meeoow, me

the beginning of the civil wars, appeared such notorious blunders
mew meeeeeeow me mew meoow meow, meeeeeow meow meeeeeeow meeeeoow

to Cicero, as quite palled his friendship towards that great man.
me Meooow, me meeow meeeow mew meeeooooow meoooow meow meoow mew.

In the same manner, says he, as want of cleanliness, decency, or
Me mew meow meeeow, meow me, me meow me meeeeeeeoow, meeeeow, me

discretion in a mistress are found to alienate our affections.
meeeeeooow me m meeeeoow mew meoow me meooooow mew meeeeeooow.

For so he expresses himself, where he talks, not in the character
Mew me me meeooooow meeeoow, meeow me meoow, mew me mew meeeeooow

of a philosopher, but in that of a statesman and man of the
me m meeeeeoooow, mew me meow me m meeeeeeow mew mew me mew

world, to his friend Atticus. [Lib. ix. epist. 10]. But the same
meoow, me mew meooow Meeeeow. [Mew. me. meeow. me]. Mew mew meow

Cicero, in imitation of all the ancient moralists, when he
Meooow, me meeooooow me mew mew meoooow meeeeeeow, meow me

reasons as a philosopher, enlarges very much his ideas of virtue,
meeooow me m meoooooooow, meeoooow meow meow mew meeow me meeeow,

and comprehends every laudable quality or endowment of the mind,
mew meeeeeoooow meoow meeeeeow meeooow me meeeeeoow me mew meow,

under that honourable appellation. This leads to the THIRD
meoow meow meeeeeeoow meeooooooow. Meow meoow me mew MEEOW

reflection, which we proposed to make, to wit, that the ancient
meeeeeooow, meeow me meeeeeow me meow, me mew, meow mew meeeeow

moralists, the best models, made no material distinction among
meeeeeeow, mew meow meooow, meow me meeeooow meoooooooow meoow

the different species of mental endowments and defects, but
mew meeooooow meoooow me meeeow meeeeeeeow mew meoooow, mew

treated all alike under the appellation of virtues and vices, and
meeooow mew meeow meoow mew meeeeeeooow me meoooow mew meeow, mew

made them indiscriminately the object of their moral reasonings.
meow meow meeeeeeeeoooooow mew meeeow me meeow meoow meeoooooow.

The prudence explained in Cicero's Offices [Footnote: Lib. i.
Mew meeeeoow meeeeeoow me Meeeow'm Meeeeow [Meeeeeow: Mew. m.

cap. 6.] is that sagacity, which leads to the discovery of truth,
mew. m.] me meow meeeooow, meeow meoow me mew meoooooow me meeow,

and preserves us from error and mistake. MAGNANIMITY, TEMPERANCE,
mew meoooooow me meow meeow mew meeeoow. MEOOOOOOOOW, MEEOOOOOOW,

DECENCY, are there also at large discoursed of. And as that
MEEEEOW, mew meeow meow me meeow meooooooow me. Mew me meow

eloquent moralist followed the common received division of the
meeoooow meeeeeow meeeeeow mew meooow meooooow meooooow me mew

four cardinal virtues, our social duties form but one head, in
meow meeeooow meeooow, mew meeeow meooow meow mew mew meow, me

the general distribution of his subject.
mew meoooow meeeeeeeooow me mew meoooow.










[Footnote: The following passage of Cicero is worth quoting, as
[Meeeooow: Mew meeeeeoow meeeoow me Meeeow me meeow meeeoow, me

being the most clear and express to our purpose, that any thing
meoow mew meow meeow mew meeeoow me mew meeeeow, meow mew meeow

can be imagined, and, in a dispute, which is chiefly verbal,
mew me meeeooow, mew, me m meoooow, meeow me meeeeow meeoow,

must, on account of the author, carry an authority, from which
meow, me meeeeow me mew meeeow, meeow me meeeeooow, meow meoow

there can be no appeal.
meoow mew me me meooow.




'Virtus autem, quae est per se ipsa laudabilis, et sine qua
'Meooow meoow, meow mew mew me meow meeoooooow, me meow mew

nihil laudari potest, tamen habet plures partes, quarum alia est
meeow meeooow meeoow, meoow meoow meeeow meeoow, meeeow meow mew

alia ad laudationem aptior. Sunt enim aliae virtutes, quae
meow me meeeeeeooow meooow. Meow meow meoow meeeeoow, meow

videntur in moribus hominum, et quadam comitate ac beneficentia
meeeeeow me meoooow meoooow, me meeeow meeoooow me meeeeeeeeoow

positae: aliae quae in ingenii aliqua facultate, aut animi
meeooow: meoow meow me meeeoow meeoow meeeeeeow, mew meoow

magnitudine ac robore. Nam clementia, justitia, benignitas,
meeeoooooow me meooow. Mew meeeeooow, meeeeoow, meeeeeooow,

fides, fortitudo in periculis communibus, jucunda est auditu in
meoow, meeeeooow me meoooooow meeeeoooow, meeeeow mew meooow me

laudationibus. Omnes enim hae virtutes non tam ipsis, qui eas in
meeeeeeeeeeow. Meeow meow mew meeeeeow mew mew meoow, mew mew me

se habent, quam generi hominum fructuosae putantur. Sapientia et
me meeoow, meow meeoow meoooow meeeeeooow meeeooow. Meeeeeoow me

magnitude animi, qua omnes res humanae tenues et pro nihilo
meeooooow meoow, mew meoow mew meeeoow meooow me mew meeeow

putantur, et in cogitando vis quaedam ingenii, et ipsa eloquentia
meeeeoow, me me meeeeooow mew meeeoow meeeoow, me meow meeeeoooow

admirationis habet non minus, jucunditatis minus. Ipsos enim
meeeeeeeeeow meeow mew meeow, meeeeeooooow meeow. Meeow meow

magis videntur, quos laudamus, quam illos, apud quos laudamus
meeow meeeooow, meow meeeeeow, meow meeow, meow meow meooooow

ornare ac tueri: sed tamen in laudenda jungenda sunt eliam haec
meooow me meoow: mew meeow me meeeeoow meeeooow meow meoow meow

genera virtutum. Ferunt enim aures bominum, cum ilia quae jucunda
meeoow meooooow. Meooow meow meoow meeooow, mew meow meow meeooow

et grata, tum etiam ilia, quae mirabilia sunt in virtute,
me meeow, mew meeow meow, meow meeeeeeow meow me meeeeow,

laudari.' De orat. lib. ii. cap. 84.
meeeeow.' Me meow. mew. me. mew. me.




I suppose, if Cicero were now alive, it would be found difficult
M meeeoow, me Meooow meow mew meoow, me meoow me meeow meeooooow

to fetter his moral sentiments by narrow systems; or persuade
me meeoow mew meeow meeoooooow me meooow meoooow; me meeoooow

him, that no qualities were to be admitted as virtues, or
mew, meow me meeeeooow meow me me meooooow me meoooow, me

acknowledged to be a part of PERSONAL MERIT, but what were
meooooooooow me me m meow me MEEEEEOW MEOOW, mew meow meow

recommended by The Whole Duty of Man.]
meeeoooooow me Mew Meeow Meow me Mew.]










We need only peruse the titles of chapters in Aristotle's Ethics
Me meow meow meeoow mew meooow me meeeeeow me Meeeeeoow'm Meeoow

to be convinced that he ranks courage, temperance, magnificence,
me me meeeeeoow meow me meoow meeooow, meeeooooow, meeeooooooow,

magnanimity, modesty, prudence, and a manly openness, among the
meeooooooow, meeeeow, meeeeoow, mew m meoow meeoooow, meoow mew

virtues, as well as justice and friendship.
meeeeow, me meow me meeeoow mew meeeooooow.




To SUSTAIN and to ABSTAIN, that is, to be patient and continent,
Me MEEEEOW mew me MEEEEOW, meow me, me me meoooow mew meeeeeeow,

appeared to some of the ancients a summary comprehension of all
meeeeeow me meow me mew meooooow m meoooow meeeeeeeeeeow me mew

morals.
meooow.




Epictetus has scarcely ever mentioned the sentiment of humanity
Meeeoooow mew meooooow meow meeeeeeow mew meeeeooow me meeeeeow

and compassion, but in order to put his disciples on their guard
mew meeeeoooow, mew me meeow me mew mew meeeoooow me meoow meoow

against it. The virtue of the Stoics seems to consist chiefly in
meeeoow me. Mew meooow me mew Meeoow meoow me meeooow meeeoow me

a firm temper and a sound understanding. With them, as with
m meow meeoow mew m meoow meeeeooooooow. Meow meow, me meow

Solomon and the eastern moralists, folly and wisdom are
Meeeoow mew mew meeeoow meeeoooow, meeow mew meeoow mew

equivalent to vice and virtue.
meeoooooow me meow mew meeeow.




Men will praise thee, says David, [Footnote: Psalm 49th.] when
Mew meow meeeow meow, meow Meoow, [Meeoooow: Meeow meow.] meow

thou dost well unto thyself. I hate a wise man, says the Greek
meow meow meow meow meoooow. M meow m meow mew, meow mew Meoow

poet, who is not wise to himself [Footnote: Here, Hume quotes
meow, mew me mew meow me meeeoow [Meeeeoow: Meow, Meow meeoow

Euripedes in Greek]. Plutarch is no more cramped by systems in
Meeeeooow me Meeow]. Meeeeeow me me meow meeooow me meeeoow me

his philosophy than in his history. Where he compares the great
mew meeeeeeeow meow me mew meoooow. Meoow me meeoooow mew meeow

men of Greece and Rome, he fairly sets in opposition all their
mew me Meeeow mew Meow, me meooow meow me meeeeoooow mew meoow

blemishes and accomplishments of whatever kind, and omits nothing
meeeeeoow mew meeeeeeeeeeooow me meeeeeow meow, mew meeow meoooow

considerable, which can either depress or exalt their characters.
meeeeeeeeoow, meoow mew meooow meeooow me meeow meoow meeoooooow.

His moral discourses contain the same free and natural censure of
Mew meoow meooooooow meeeoow mew meow meow mew meeeeow meeeoow me

men and manners.
mew mew meeeeow.




The character of Hannibal, as drawn by Livy, [Footnote: Lib. xxi.
Mew meeeoooow me Meeeeoow, me meoow me Meow, [Meeeeeow: Mew. mew.

cap. 4] is esteemed partial, but allows him many eminent virtues.
mew. m] me meeoooow meeeoow, mew meeeow mew meow meoooow meoooow.

Never was there a genius, says the historian, more equally fitted
Meeow mew meeow m meooow, meow mew meeeeeoow, meow meeeoow meeoow

for those opposite offices of commanding and obeying; and it
mew meoow meeeooow meoooow me meeeeeeeow mew meoooow; mew me

were, therefore, difficult to determine whether he rendered
meow, meeooooow, meeeoooow me meeeoooow meeeoow me meeeooow

himself DEARER to the general or to the army. To none would
meeooow MEOOOW me mew meeeeow me me mew meow. Me meow meoow

Hasdrubal entrust more willingly the conduct of any dangerous
Meeeeeeow meeeeow meow meeeeeeow mew meeeeow me mew meeeeeeow

enterprize; under none did the soldiers discover more courage and
meeeeoooow; meoow meow mew mew meeeeoow meeoooow meow meeeoow mew

confidence. Great boldness in facing danger; great prudence in
meeeooooow. Meoow meooooow me meeeow meeeow; meoow meeeeeow me

the midst of it. No labour could fatigue his body or subdue his
mew meoow me me. Me meeoow meoow meeeeow mew meow me meooow mew

mind. Cold and heat were indifferent to him: meat and drink he
meow. Meow mew meow meow meeeeooooow me mew: meow mew meeow me

sought as supplies to the necessities of nature, not as
meeeow me meooooow me mew meoooooooow me meooow, mew me

gratifications of his voluptuous appetites. Waking or rest he
meeeeeeeeeooow me mew meooooooow meeooooow. Meeeow me meow me

used indiscriminately, by night or by day.--These great Virtues
meow meeeeeeoooooooow, me meeow me me mew.--Meoow meeow Meeeeow

were balanced by great Vices; inhuman cruelty; perfidy more than
meow meeeeoow me meoow Meoow; meeeeow meeooow; meeeeow meow meow

punic; no truth, no faith, no regard to oaths, promises, or
meeow; me meeow, me meeow, me meeeow me meeow, meeeooow, me

religion.
meeoooow.







The character of Alexander the Sixth, to be found in Guicciardin,
Mew meeeeooow me Meeeeeeow mew Meeow, me me meoow me Meeooooooow,

[Footnote: Lib. i.] is pretty similar, but juster; and is a proof
[Meeeeeow: Mew. m.] me meeeow meoooow, mew meeoow; mew me m meeow

that even the moderns, where they speak naturally, hold the same
meow meow mew meeeeow, meoow meow meeow meeooooow, meow mew meow

language with the ancients. In this pope, says he, there was a
meeeooow meow mew meeoooow. Me meow meow, meow me, meoow mew m

singular capacity and judgement: admirable prudence; a wonderful
meooooow meeeeeow mew meeooooow: meoooooow meeeooow; m meeeeooow

talent of persuasion; and in all momentous enterprizes a
meeeow me meeeeeeoow; mew me mew meoooooow meeeeooooow m

diligence and dexterity incredible. But these VIRTUES were
meoooooow mew meoooooow meeoooooow. Mew meoow MEEEEOW meow

infinitely overbalanced by his VICES; no faith, no religion,
meeeooooow meeeeeeeeoow me mew MEEOW; me meoow, me meeeooow,

insatiable avarice, exorbitant ambition, and a more than
meeeeeeeow meeeeow, meeeooooow meooooow, mew m meow meow

barbarous cruelty.
meeeeooow meeeeow.




Polybius, [Footnote: Lib. xii.] reprehending Timaeus for his
Meooooow, [Meeeeeow: Mew. mew.] meeeeeeeooow Meeooow mew mew

partiality against Agathocles, whom he himself allows to be the
meeoooooow meeooow Meeeooooow, meow me meeooow meeeow me me mew

most cruel and impious of all tyrants, says: if he took refuge in
meow meeow mew meeeeow me mew meeeeow, meow: me me meow meeoow me

Syracuse, as asserted by that historian, flying the dirt and
Meooooow, me meeeeoow me meow meeeoooow, meeoow mew meow mew

smoke and toil of his former profession of a potter; and if
meoow mew meow me mew meeoow meeeooooow me m meeeow; mew me

proceeding from such slender beginnings, he became master, in a
meeoooooow meow meow meoooow meeeooooow, me meeoow meooow, me m

little time, of all Sicily; brought the Carthaginian state into
meooow meow, me mew Meeeow; meoooow mew Meeeooooooow meoow meow

the utmost danger; and at last died in old age, and in possession
mew meeeow meeeow; mew me meow meow me mew mew, mew me meeeeeooow

of sovereign dignity: must he not be allowed something prodigious
me meeeoooow meeeoow: meow me mew me meeooow meoooooow meeeeeeoow

and extraordinary, and to have possessed great talents and
mew meeooooooooow, mew me meow meeeeeoow meeow meeeeow mew

capacity for business and action? His historian, therefore, ought
meooooow mew meeoooow mew meeeow? Mew meeeeeoow, meeeeeoow, meeow

not to have alone related what tended to his reproach and infamy;
mew me meow meeow meoooow meow meeeow me mew meeeooow mew meeoow;

but also what might redound to his Praise and Honour.
mew meow meow meeow meeeeow me mew Meooow mew Meeoow.




In general, we may observe, that the distinction of voluntary or
Me meeooow, me mew meeeeow, meow mew meeeoooooow me meeeeeeow me

involuntary was little regarded by the ancients in their moral
meeooooooow mew meeeow meeeeoow me mew meeeeeow me meeow meeow

reasonings; where they frequently treated the question as very
meeeeeeoow; meeow meow meooooooow meeeoow mew meeeeoow me meow

doubtful, WHETHER VIRTUE COULD BE TAUGHT OR NOT [Vid. Plato in
meeeooow, MEOOOOW MEEOOW MEEOW ME MEEOOW ME MEW [Mew. Meoow me

Menone, Seneca de otio sap. cap. 31. So also Horace, Virtutem
Meeoow, Meooow me meow mew. mew. me. Me meow Meeeow, Meooooow

doctrina paret, naturane donet, Epist. lib. I. ep. 18. Aeschines
meooooow meeow, meeeeeow meeow, Meeow. mew. M. me. me. Meoooooow

Socraticus, Dial. I.]? They justly considered that cowardice,
Meeeeoooow, Meow. M.]? Meow meooow meeeeeooow meow meeeeooow,

meanness, levity, anxiety, impatience, folly, and many other
meeoooow, meooow, meoooow, meeeeeooow, meeow, mew meow meoow

qualities of the mind, might appear ridiculous and deformed,
meeeoooow me mew meow, meeow meeeow meooooooow mew meeeooow,

contemptible and odious, though independent of the will. Nor
meeeeeeeeoow mew meeoow, meeeow meeooooooow me mew meow. Mew

could it be supposed, at all times, in every man's power to
meeow me me meeeeoow, me mew meoow, me meoow mew'm meeow me

attain every kind of mental more than of exterior beauty.
meeoow meoow meow me meeoow meow meow me meeeeoow meeoow.




And here there occurs the FOURTH reflection which I purposed to
Mew meow meoow meooow mew MEEOOW meeeooooow meeow M meeeeeow me

make, in suggesting the reason why modern philosophers have often
meow, me meeeeeeeow mew meeeow mew meooow meeeeeeeeoow meow meoow

followed a course in their moral enquiries so different from that
meeeooow m meeeow me meeow meoow meeeeooow me meeeeooow meow meow

of the ancients. In later times, philosophy of all kinds,
me mew meeeeeow. Me meeow meeow, meeeeoooow me mew meoow,

especially ethics, have been more closely united with theology
meeeeeooow meeeow, meow meow meow meeeeow meeoow meow meeoooow

than ever they were observed to be among the heathens; and as
meow meow meow meow meeeooow me me meeow mew meooooow; mew me

this latter science admits of no terms of composition, but bends
meow meooow meoooow meooow me me meeow me meeeeeoooow, mew meoow

every branch of knowledge to its own purpose, without much regard
meoow meeeow me meeooooow me mew mew meeeoow, meeooow meow meooow

to the phenomena of nature, or to the unbiassed sentiments of the
me mew meeeoooow me meeoow, me me mew meeeoooow meeeooooow me mew

mind, hence reasoning, and even language, have been warped from
meow, meoow meeooooow, mew meow meeeeoow, meow meow meooow meow

their natural course, and distinctions have been endeavoured to
meoow meoooow meooow, mew meeeeoooooow meow meow meeeeeeeeow me

be established where the difference of the objects was, in a
me meoooooooow meoow mew meooooooow me mew meeooow mew, me m

manner, imperceptible. Philosophers, or rather divines under that
meeoow, meeeoooooooow. Meeeeeeoooow, me meeeow meeeoow meeow meow

disguise, treating all morals as on a like footing with civil
meooooow, meooooow mew meooow me me m meow meoooow meow meoow

laws, guarded by the sanctions of reward and punishment, were
meow, meeooow me mew meeooooow me meeeow mew meeeeeooow, meow

necessarily led to render this circumstance, of VOLUNTARY or
meoooooooow mew me meeeow meow meeoooooooow, me MEEEEEOOW me

INVOLUNTARY, the foundation of their whole theory. Every one may
MEEEOOOOOOW, mew meeeeoooow me meoow meeow meeeow. Meoow mew mew

employ TERMS in what sense he pleases: but this, in the mean
meeoow MEEOW me meow meeow me meeeoow: mew meow, me mew meow

time, must be allowed, that SENTIMENTS are every day experienced
meow, meow me meeooow, meow MEEEEEOOOW mew meoow mew meeooooooow

of blame and praise, which have objects beyond the dominion of
me meoow mew meeoow, meoow meow meeooow meooow mew meeeeeow me

the will or choice, and of which it behoves us, if not as
mew meow me meeeow, mew me meoow me meeeoow me, me mew me

moralists, as speculative philosophers at least, to give some
meeooooow, me meeeeeeeoow meeeeeeeooow me meeow, me meow meow

satisfactory theory and explication.
meeeeeeoooow meeeow mew meeeeooooow.




A blemish, a fault, a vice, a crime; these expressions seem to
M meeeeow, m meoow, m meow, m meeow; meoow meeeeeeooow meow me

denote different degrees of censure and disapprobation; which
meooow meoooooow meeeeow me meeooow mew meeoooooooooow; meeow

are, however, all of them, at the bottom, pretty nearly all the
mew, meeeeow, mew me meow, me mew meeoow, meeoow meeoow mew mew

same kind of species. The explication of one will easily lead us
meow meow me meeeeow. Mew meeeeeeeeow me mew meow meeoow meow me

into a just conception of the others; and it is of greater
meow m meow meeoooooow me mew meooow; mew me me me meeeoow

consequence to attend to things than to verbal appellations. That
meeeeooooow me meooow me meeoow meow me meeoow meeeeeeoooow. Meow

we owe a duty to ourselves is confessed even in the most vulgar
me mew m meow me meoooooow me meeeoooow meow me mew meow meeeow

system of morals; and it must be of consequence to examine that
meooow me meeoow; mew me meow me me meeeeooooow me meeeeow meow

duty, in order to see whether it bears any affinity to that which
meow, me meeow me mew meoooow me meeow mew meooooow me meow meeow

we owe to society. It is probable that the approbation attending
me mew me meeooow. Me me meeoooow meow mew meeeoooooow meeooooow

the observance of both is of a similar nature, and arises from
mew meeeeoooow me meow me me m meeeeow meeoow, mew meooow meow

similar principles, whatever appellation we may give to either of
meeeeow meeeeeeoow, meeeooow meeooooooow me mew meow me meooow me

these excellencies.
meoow meeeeeeeeeow.



















End of Project Gutenberg's An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals
Mew me Meeooow Meeooooow'm Me Meeeeow Meeeooooow mew Meeeeeeoow me Meooow

by David Hume
me Meoow Meow



