
The Project Gutenberg EBook of Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville
Noo Noooooo Noooooooo NOooo no Nooo Nooo; no Noo Noooo, no Nooooo Nooooooo




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Nooo nOooo no noo noo noo no nooooo nooooooo no no nooo noo nooo

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
nooooo no nooooooooooo nooooooooo.  Noo noo nooo no, nooo no nooo no

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
no-noo no noooo noo noooo no noo Noooooo Noooooooo Noooooo nooooooo

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
nooo nooo nOooo no nooooo no noo.noooooooo.noo







Title: Moby Dick; or The Whale
Noooo: Nooo Nooo; no Noo Noooo




Author: Herman Melville
Nooooo: Nooooo Nooooooo




Last Updated: January 3, 2009
Nooo Noooooo: Noooooo n, nooo

Posting Date: December 25, 2008 [EBook #2701]
Noooooo Nooo: Nooooooo no, nooo [NOooo #nooo]

Release Date: June, 2001
Noooooo Nooo: Nooo, nooo




Language: English
Nooooooo: Noooooo







*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE ***
*** NOOOO NO NOOO NOOOOOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOO NOOO NOOO; NO NOO NOOOO ***













Produced by Daniel Lazarus and Jonesey
Nooooooo no Nooooo Noooooo noo Noooooo
















MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE
NOOO NOOO; NO NOO NOOOO




By Herman Melville
No Nooooo Nooooooo













Original Transcriber's Notes:
Nooooooo Noooooooooo'n Noooo:




This text is a combination of etexts, one from the now-defunct ERIS
Nooo nooo no n noooooooooo no nooooo, noo nooo noo noo-noooooo NOOO

project at Virginia Tech and one from Project Gutenberg's archives. The
noooooo no Nooooooo Nooo noo noo nooo Noooooo Noooooooo'n nooooooo. Noo

proofreaders of this version are indebted to The University of Adelaide
nooooooooooo no nooo noooooo noo nooooooo no Noo Nooooooooo no Nooooooo

Library for preserving the Virginia Tech version. The resulting etext
Noooooo noo nooooooooo noo Nooooooo Nooo noooooo. Noo noooooooo noooo

was compared with a public domain hard copy version of the text.
noo nooooooo nooo n nooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooooo no noo nooo.




In chapters 24, 89, and 90, we substituted a capital L for the symbol
No nooooooo no, no, noo no, no noooooooooo n noooooo N noo noo nooooo

for the British pound, a unit of currency.
noo noo Noooooo noooo, n nooo no nooooooo.













ETYMOLOGY.
NOOOOOOOO.




(Supplied by a Late Consumptive Usher to a Grammar School)
(Nooooooo no n Nooo Noooooooooo Noooo no n Noooooo Nooooo)




The pale Usher--threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him
Noo nooo Noooo--nooooooooo no nooo, noooo, nooo, noo noooo; N noo noo

now. He was ever dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer
noo. No noo nooo noooooo noo noo nooooooo noo nooooooo, nooo n noooo

handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all
nooooooooooo, noooooooo noooooooooo nooo noo noo noo noooo no noo

the known nations of the world. He loved to dust his old grammars; it
noo noooo noooooo no noo noooo. No noooo no nooo noo noo nooooooo; no

somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.
noooooo nooooo nooooooo noo no noo noooooooo.




"While you take in hand to school others, and to teach them by what
"Noooo noo nooo no nooo no nooooo nooooo, noo no noooo nooo no nooo

name a whale-fish is to be called in our tongue leaving out, through
nooo n noooo-nooo no no no nooooo no noo nooooo noooooo noo, noooooo

ignorance, the letter H, which almost alone maketh the signification of
noooooooo, noo nooooo N, noooo nooooo noooo nooooo noo noooooooooooo no

the word, you deliver that which is not true." --HACKLUYT
noo nooo, noo noooooo nooo noooo no noo nooo." --NOOOOOOO




"WHALE.... Sw. and Dan. HVAL. This animal is named from roundness or
"NOOOO.... No. noo Noo. NOOO. Nooo nooooo no noooo nooo noooooooo no

rolling; for in Dan. HVALT is arched or vaulted." --WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY
noooooo; noo no Noo. NOOOO no nooooo no noooooo." --NOOOOOO'N NOOOOOOOOO




"WHALE.... It is more immediately from the Dut. and Ger. WALLEN; A.S.
"NOOOO.... No no nooo noooooooooo nooo noo Noo. noo Noo. NOOOOO; N.N.

WALW-IAN, to roll, to wallow." --RICHARDSON'S DICTIONARY
NOOO-NOO, no nooo, no nooooo." --NOOOOOOOOO'N NOOOOOOOOO




     KETOS,               GREEK.
     NOOOO,               NOOOO.

     CETUS,               LATIN.
     NOOOO,               NOOOO.

     WHOEL,               ANGLO-SAXON.
     NOOOO,               NOOOO-NOOOO.

     HVALT,               DANISH.
     NOOOO,               NOOOOO.

     WAL,                 DUTCH.
     NOO,                 NOOOO.

     HWAL,                SWEDISH.
     NOOO,                NOOOOOO.

     WHALE,               ICELANDIC.
     NOOOO,               NOOOOOOOO.

     WHALE,               ENGLISH.
     NOOOO,               NOOOOOO.

     BALEINE,             FRENCH.
     NOOOOOO,             NOOOOO.

     BALLENA,             SPANISH.
     NOOOOOO,             NOOOOOO.

     PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE,     FEGEE.
     NOOOO-NOOO-NOOO,     NOOOO.

     PEHEE-NUEE-NUEE,     ERROMANGOAN.
     NOOOO-NOOO-NOOO,     NOOOOOOOOOO.













EXTRACTS (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).
NOOOOOOO (Nooooooo no n Noo-Noo-Noooooooo).




It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grub-worm of a
No nooo no nooo nooo nooo nooo noooooooooo nooooooo noo nooo-nooo no n

poor devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans
nooo noooo no n Noo-Noo noooooo no nooo nooo noooooo noo nooo Nooooooo

and street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to
noo nooooo-nooooo no noo noooo, noooooo no nooooooo nooooo noooooooo no

whales he could anyways find in any book whatsoever, sacred or
nooooo no noooo noooooo nooo no noo nooo nooooooooo, nooooo no

profane. Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the
noooooo. Noooooooo noo nooo noo, no noooo nooo no noooo, nooo noo

higgledy-piggledy whale statements, however authentic, in these
nooooooo-nooooooo noooo nooooooooo, noooooo noooooooo, no noooo

extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As touching the
nooooooo, noo noooooooo nooooo nooooooo. Noo nooo no. No nooooooo noo

ancient authors generally, as well as the poets here appearing, these
noooooo noooooo noooooooo, no nooo no noo noooo nooo noooooooo, noooo

extracts are solely valuable or entertaining, as affording a glancing
nooooooo noo nooooo nooooooo no nooooooooooo, no noooooooo n nooooooo

bird's eye view of what has been promiscuously said, thought, fancied,
nooo'n noo nooo no nooo noo nooo noooooooooooo nooo, noooooo, noooooo,

and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations, including our
noo nooo no Noooooooo, no nooo noooooo noo noooooooooo, noooooooo noo

own.
noo.




So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am. Thou
No nooo nooo nooo, nooo noooo no n Noo-Noo, noooo noooooooooo N no. Nooo

belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this world
noooooooo no nooo nooooooo, nooooo noooo noooo no nooo no nooo noooo

will ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong;
nooo nooo nooo; noo noo nooo nooo Nooo Nooooo noooo no noo nooo-nooooo;

but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too;
noo nooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo no noo, noo nooo nooo-nooooooo, noo;

and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them bluntly, with full eyes
noo nooo noooooooo nooo noooo; noo noo no nooo noooooo, nooo nooo nooo

and empty glasses, and in not altogether unpleasant sadness--Give it up,
noo noooo noooooo, noo no noo nooooooooo nooooooooo noooooo--Nooo no no,

Sub-Subs! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world,
Noo-Nooo! Noo no noo nooo noo nooo noooo no nooo no nooooo noo noooo,

by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless! Would that I could
no no nooo noo nooo noooo no noo nooo no noooooooo! Noooo nooo N noooo

clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your
noooo noo Noooooo Noooo noo noo Noooooooo noo no! Noo nooo nooo nooo

tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends
noooo noo noo noooo no noo noooo-nooo nooo nooo nooooo; noo nooo noooooo

who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and
noo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooooooo noo noo noooo-noooooo noooooo, noo

making refugees of long-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against
nooooo nooooooo no nooo-nooooooo Noooooo, Noooooo, noo Noooooo, noooooo

your coming. Here ye strike but splintered hearts together--there, ye
nooo nooooo. Nooo no nooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo nooooooo--noooo, no

shall strike unsplinterable glasses!
noooo nooooo nooooooooooooo noooooo!







EXTRACTS.
NOOOOOOO.




"And God created great whales." --GENESIS.
"Noo Noo noooooo noooo nooooo." --NOOOOOO.




"Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep to
"Noooooooo nooooo n nooo no noooo noooo noo; Noo noooo noooo noo nooo no

be hoary." --JOB.
no noooo." --NOO.




"Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah." --JONAH.
"Noo noo Nooo noo nooooooo n noooo nooo no noooooo no Noooo." --NOOOO.




"There go the ships; there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to play
"Noooo no noo noooo; noooo no nooo Noooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo no nooo

therein." --PSALMS.
noooooo." --NOOOOO.




"In that day, the Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sword,
"No nooo noo, noo Nooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooo, noo nooooo noooo,

shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that crooked
noooo nooooo Noooooooo noo nooooooo noooooo, nooo Noooooooo nooo noooooo

serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea." --ISAIAH
noooooo; noo no noooo nooo noo nooooo nooo no no noo noo." --NOOOOO




"And what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this monster's
"Noo nooo noooo nooooo noooooo nooooo nooooo noo noooo no nooo noooooo'n

mouth, be it beast, boat, or stone, down it goes all incontinently that
noooo, no no noooo, nooo, no noooo, nooo no nooo noo noooooooooooo nooo

foul great swallow of his, and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of his
nooo noooo noooooo no noo, noo noooooooo no noo nooooooooo nooo no noo

paunch." --HOLLAND'S PLUTARCH'S MORALS.
nooooo." --NOOOOOO'N NOOOOOOO'N NOOOOO.




"The Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are: among
"Noo Nooooo Noo nooooooo noo nooo noo noo noooooo nooooo nooo noo: noooo

which the Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up as much in
noooo noo Nooooo noo Noooooooooo nooooo Noooooo, nooo no no nooo no

length as four acres or arpens of land." --HOLLAND'S PLINY.
nooooo no nooo noooo no nooooo no nooo." --NOOOOOO'N NOOOO.




"Scarcely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when about sunrise a
"Nooooooo noo no noooooooo noo nooo no noo noo, nooo noooo noooooo n

great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the
noooo nooo Nooooo noo noooo nooooooo no noo noo, nooooooo. Noooo noo

former, one was of a most monstrous size.... This came towards us,
nooooo, noo noo no n nooo noooooooo nooo.... Nooo nooo noooooo no,

open-mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea before
nooo-noooooo, noooooo noo noooo no noo noooo, noo noooooo noo noo nooooo

him into a foam." --TOOKE'S LUCIAN. "THE TRUE HISTORY."
noo nooo n nooo." --NOOOO'N NOOOOO. "NOO NOOO NOOOOOO."




"He visited this country also with a view of catching horse-whales,
"No noooooo nooo noooooo nooo nooo n nooo no nooooooo noooo-nooooo,

which had bones of very great value for their teeth, of which he brought
noooo noo noooo no nooo noooo noooo noo noooo noooo, no noooo no noooooo

some to the king.... The best whales were catched in his own country, of
nooo no noo nooo.... Noo nooo nooooo nooo noooooo no noo noo noooooo, no

which some were forty-eight, some fifty yards long. He said that he was
noooo nooo nooo noooo-noooo, nooo noooo noooo nooo. No nooo nooo no noo

one of six who had killed sixty in two days." --OTHER OR OTHER'S VERBAL
noo no noo noo noo nooooo noooo no noo nooo." --NOOOO NO NOOOO'N NOOOOO

NARRATIVE TAKEN DOWN FROM HIS MOUTH BY KING ALFRED, A.D. 890.
NOOOOOOOO NOOOO NOOO NOOO NOO NOOOO NO NOOO NOOOOO, N.N. noo.




"And whereas all the other things, whether beast or vessel, that
"Noo noooooo noo noo noooo nooooo, noooooo noooo no nooooo, nooo

enter into the dreadful gulf of this monster's (whale's) mouth, are
noooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo no nooo noooooo'n (noooo'n) noooo, noo

immediately lost and swallowed up, the sea-gudgeon retires into it in
noooooooooo nooo noo noooooooo no, noo noo-noooooo noooooo nooo no no

great security, and there sleeps." --MONTAIGNE. --APOLOGY FOR RAIMOND
noooo nooooooo, noo noooo nooooo." --NOOOOOOOO. --NOOOOOO NOO NOOOOOO

SEBOND.
NOOOOO.




"Let us fly, let us fly! Old Nick take me if is not Leviathan described
"Noo no noo, noo no noo! Noo Nooo nooo no no no noo Noooooooo noooooooo

by the noble prophet Moses in the life of patient Job." --RABELAIS.
no noo noooo noooooo Noooo no noo nooo no noooooo Noo." --NOOOOOOO.




"This whale's liver was two cartloads." --STOWE'S ANNALS.
"Nooo noooo'n noooo noo noo noooooooo." --NOOOO'N NOOOOO.




"The great Leviathan that maketh the seas to seethe like boiling pan."
"Noo noooo Noooooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo no nooooo nooo noooooo noo."

--LORD BACON'S VERSION OF THE PSALMS.
--NOOO NOOOO'N NOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOO.




"Touching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have received
"Nooooooo nooo noooooooo nooo no noo noooo no noo no nooo nooooooo

nothing certain. They grow exceeding fat, insomuch that an incredible
noooooo noooooo. Nooo nooo noooooooo noo, nooooooo nooo no nooooooooo

quantity of oil will be extracted out of one whale." --IBID. "HISTORY OF
nooooooo no noo nooo no noooooooo noo no noo noooo." --NOOO. "NOOOOOO NO

LIFE AND DEATH."
NOOO NOO NOOOO."




"The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise."
"Noo nooooooooooo noooo no noooo no nooooooooo noo no nooooo nooooo."

--KING HENRY.
--NOOO NOOOO.




"Very like a whale." --HAMLET.
"Nooo nooo n noooo." --NOOOOO.




     "Which to secure, no skill of leach's art
     "Noooo no nooooo, no noooo no noooo'n noo

     Mote him availle, but to returne againe
     Nooo noo noooooo, noo no noooooo nooooo

     To his wound's worker, that with lowly dart,
     No noo noooo'n nooooo, nooo nooo noooo nooo,

     Dinting his breast, had bred his restless paine,
     Noooooo noo nooooo, noo nooo noo nooooooo noooo,

     Like as the wounded whale to shore flies thro' the maine."
     Nooo no noo noooooo noooo no noooo noooo nooo' noo noooo."

     --THE FAERIE QUEEN.
     --NOO NOOOOO NOOOO.




"Immense as whales, the motion of whose vast bodies can in a peaceful
"Noooooo no nooooo, noo nooooo no noooo nooo nooooo noo no n nooooooo

calm trouble the ocean til it boil." --SIR WILLIAM DAVENANT. PREFACE TO
nooo noooooo noo noooo noo no nooo." --NOO NOOOOOO NOOOOOOO. NOOOOOO NO

GONDIBERT.
NOOOOOOOO.




"What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned
"Nooo noooooooooo no, noo noooo nooooo noooo, noooo noo noooooo

Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, Nescio quid sit."
Noooooooo no noo nooo no nooooo noooo, noooo noooooo, Nooooo nooo noo."

--SIR T. BROWNE. OF SPERMA CETI AND THE SPERMA CETI WHALE. VIDE HIS V.
--NOO N. NOOOOO. NO NOOOOO NOOO NOO NOO NOOOOO NOOO NOOOO. NOOO NOO N.

E.
N.




     "Like Spencer's Talus with his modern flail
     "Nooo Noooooo'n Noooo nooo noo nooooo noooo

     He threatens ruin with his ponderous tail.
     No noooooooo nooo nooo noo noooooooo nooo.

   ...
   ...

     Their fixed jav'lins in his side he wears,
     Noooo noooo noo'nooo no noo nooo no noooo,

     And on his back a grove of pikes appears."
     Noo no noo nooo n noooo no noooo noooooo."

     --WALLER'S BATTLE OF THE SUMMER ISLANDS.
     --NOOOOO'N NOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOO NOOOOOO.




"By art is created that great Leviathan, called a Commonwealth or
"No noo no noooooo nooo noooo Noooooooo, nooooo n Nooooooooooo no

State--(in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man." --OPENING
Noooo--(no Noooo, Noooooo) noooo no noo no nooooooooo noo." --NOOOOOO

SENTENCE OF HOBBES'S LEVIATHAN.
NOOOOOOO NO NOOOOO'N NOOOOOOOO.




"Silly Mansoul swallowed it without chewing, as if it had been a sprat
"Noooo Noooooo noooooooo no noooooo noooooo, no no no noo nooo n noooo

in the mouth of a whale." --PILGRIM'S PROGRESS.
no noo noooo no n noooo." --NOOOOOO'N NOOOOOOO.




     "That sea beast
     "Nooo noo noooo

     Leviathan, which God of all his works
     Noooooooo, noooo Noo no noo noo noooo

     Created hugest that swim the ocean stream." --PARADISE LOST.
     Noooooo nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo nooooo." --NOOOOOOO NOOO.




     ---"There Leviathan,
     ---"Noooo Noooooooo,

     Hugest of living creatures, in the deep
     Nooooo no nooooo noooooooo, no noo nooo

     Stretched like a promontory sleeps or swims,
     Noooooooo nooo n nooooooooo nooooo no noooo,

     And seems a moving land; and at his gills
     Noo noooo n nooooo nooo; noo no noo noooo

     Draws in, and at his breath spouts out a sea." --IBID.
     Noooo no, noo no noo nooooo nooooo noo n noo." --NOOO.




"The mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of oil
"Noo nooooo nooooo noooo nooo no n noo no noooo, noo nooo n noo no noo

swimming in them." --FULLLER'S PROFANE AND HOLY STATE.
nooooooo no nooo." --NOOOOOO'N NOOOOOO NOO NOOO NOOOO.




     "So close behind some promontory lie
     "No noooo nooooo nooo nooooooooo noo

     The huge Leviathan to attend their prey,
     Noo nooo Noooooooo no nooooo noooo nooo,

     And give no chance, but swallow in the fry,
     Noo nooo no nooooo, noo noooooo no noo noo,

     Which through their gaping jaws mistake the way."
     Noooo noooooo noooo nooooo nooo noooooo noo noo."

     --DRYDEN'S ANNUS MIRABILIS.
     --NOOOOO'N NOOOO NOOOOOOOO.




"While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off his
"Noooo noo noooo no nooooooo no noo noooo no noo nooo, nooo noo noo noo

head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come; but it
nooo, noo noo no nooo n nooo no nooo noo noooo no no nooo nooo; noo no

will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water." --THOMAS EDGE'S TEN
nooo no noooooo no nooooo no nooooooo nooo noooo." --NOOOOO NOOO'N NOO

VOYAGES TO SPITZBERGEN, IN PURCHAS.
NOOOOOO NO NOOOOOOOOOO, NO NOOOOOO.




"In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in
"No noooo noo nooo noo nooo nooooo nooooooo no noo noooo, noo no

wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which
nooooooooo noooooo no noo noooo noooooo noooo noooo noo noooo, noooo

nature has placed on their shoulders." --SIR T. HERBERT'S VOYAGES INTO
nooooo noo nooooo no noooo noooooooo." --NOO N. NOOOOOO'N NOOOOOO NOOO

ASIA AND AFRICA. HARRIS COLL.
NOOO NOO NOOOOO. NOOOOO NOOO.




"Here they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were forced to
"Nooo nooo noo nooo nooo nooooo no nooooo, nooo nooo nooo nooooo no

proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their ship
noooooo nooo n noooo nooo no noooooo noo nooo nooo nooooo noo noooo nooo

upon them." --SCHOUTEN'S SIXTH CIRCUMNAVIGATION.
nooo nooo." --NOOOOOOO'N NOOOO NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO.




"We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The
"No noo nooo nooo noo Nooo, nooo N.N. no noo nooo nooooo Noo

Jonas-in-the-Whale.... Some say the whale can't open his mouth, but that
Noooo-no-noo-Noooo.... Nooo noo noo noooo noo'n nooo noo noooo, noo nooo

is a fable.... They frequently climb up the masts to see whether they
no n noooo.... Nooo nooooooooo noooo no noo noooo no noo noooooo nooo

can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his pains....
noo noo n noooo, noo noo noooo nooooooooo noo n noooo noo noo noooo....

I was told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a barrel of
N noo nooo no n noooo noooo nooo Nooooooo, nooo noo noooo n nooooo no

herrings in his belly.... One of our harpooneers told me that he caught
nooooooo no noo noooo.... Noo no noo noooooooooo nooo no nooo no nooooo

once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over." --A VOYAGE TO
nooo n noooo no Noooooooooo nooo noo noooo noo nooo." --N NOOOOO NO

GREENLAND, A.D. 1671 HARRIS COLL.
NOOOOOOOO, N.N. nooo NOOOOO NOOO.




"Several whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno 1652, one
"Noooooo nooooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo noooo (Nooo) Nooo nooo, noo

eighty feet in length of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was
nooooo nooo no nooooo no noo noooo-nooo nooo nooo no, noooo (no N noo

informed), besides a vast quantity of oil, did afford 500 weight of
nooooooo), noooooo n nooo nooooooo no noo, noo nooooo noo nooooo no

baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren."
nooooo. Noo nooo no no noooo noo n nooo no noo nooooo no Noooooooo."

--SIBBALD'S FIFE AND KINROSS.
--NOOOOOO'N NOOO NOO NOOOOOO.




"Myself have agreed to try whether I can master and kill this
"Nooooo nooo nooooo no noo noooooo N noo nooooo noo nooo nooo

Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that was
Nooooo-nooo noooo, noo N noooo noooo nooo no noo no nooo nooo nooo noo

killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness." --RICHARD
nooooo no noo noo, nooo no noo nooooooooo noo noooooooo." --NOOOOOO

STRAFFORD'S LETTER FROM THE BERMUDAS. PHIL. TRANS. A.D. 1668.
NOOOOOOOO'N NOOOOO NOOO NOO NOOOOOOO. NOOO. NOOOO. N.N. nooo.




"Whales in the sea God's voice obey." --N. E. PRIMER.
"Nooooo no noo noo Noo'n noooo nooo." --N. N. NOOOOO.




"We saw also abundance of large whales, there being more in those
"No noo nooo noooooooo no noooo nooooo, noooo noooo nooo no noooo

southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the
nooooooo nooo, no N noo noo, no n noooooo no noo; nooo no nooo no noo

northward of us." --CAPTAIN COWLEY'S VOYAGE ROUND THE GLOBE, A.D. 1729.
noooooooo no no." --NOOOOOO NOOOOO'N NOOOOO NOOOO NOO NOOOO, N.N. nooo.




"... and the breath of the whale is frequently attended with such an
"... noo noo nooooo no noo noooo no nooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo no

insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of the brain." --ULLOA'S
noooooooooooo noooo, no no noooo no n nooooooo no noo noooo." --NOOOO'N

SOUTH AMERICA.
NOOOO NOOOOOO.




     "To fifty chosen sylphs of special note,
     "No noooo nooooo nooooo no noooooo nooo,

     We trust the important charge, the petticoat.
     No noooo noo noooooooo nooooo, noo noooooooo.

     Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to fail,
     Noo nooo no noooo nooo noooo-nooo noooo no nooo,

     Tho' stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale."
     Noo' noooooo nooo noooo noo noooo nooo nooo no noooo."

     --RAPE OF THE LOCK.
     --NOOO NO NOO NOOO.




"If we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with those
"No no noooooo nooo noooooo no noooooo no noooooooo, nooo noooo

that take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they will appear
nooo nooo no noooo noooo no noo nooo, no noooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo

contemptible in the comparison. The whale is doubtless the largest
nooooooooooo no noo nooooooooo. Noo noooo no noooooooo noo noooooo

animal in creation." --GOLDSMITH, NAT. HIST.
nooooo no nooooooo." --NOOOOOOOO, NOO. NOOO.




"If you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make them
"No noo nooooo noooo n noooo noo nooooo nooooo, noo noooo nooo nooo

speak like great wales." --GOLDSMITH TO JOHNSON.
noooo nooo noooo noooo." --NOOOOOOOO NO NOOOOOO.




"In the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was
"No noo noooooooo no noo nooo noo nooooooo no no n nooo, noo no noo

found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were then
noooo no no n nooo noooo, noooo nooo Nooooooo noo nooooo, noo nooo nooo

towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves behind the
nooooo nooooo. Nooo nooooo no nooooooo no noooooo nooooooooo nooooo noo

whale, in order to avoid being seen by us." --COOK'S VOYAGES.
noooo, no noooo no noooo noooo nooo no no." --NOOO'N NOOOOOO.




"The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so
"Noo nooooo nooooo, nooo nooooo noooooo no nooooo. Nooo noooo no no

great dread of some of them, that when out at sea they are afraid to
noooo noooo no nooo no nooo, nooo nooo noo no noo nooo noo nooooo no

mention even their names, and carry dung, lime-stone, juniper-wood,
noooooo nooo noooo noooo, noo noooo nooo, nooo-noooo, noooooo-nooo,

and some other articles of the same nature in their boats, in order to
noo nooo noooo nooooooo no noo nooo nooooo no noooo noooo, no noooo no

terrify and prevent their too near approach." --UNO VON TROIL'S LETTERS
noooooo noo noooooo noooo noo nooo nooooooo." --NOO NOO NOOOO'N NOOOOOO

ON BANKS'S AND SOLANDER'S VOYAGE TO ICELAND IN 1772.
NO NOOOO'N NOO NOOOOOOO'N NOOOOO NO NOOOOOO NO nooo.




"The Spermacetti Whale found by the Nantuckois, is an active, fierce
"Noo Noooooooooo Noooo noooo no noo Nooooooooo, no no nooooo, nooooo

animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen."
nooooo, noo nooooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooooooo."

--THOMAS JEFFERSON'S WHALE MEMORIAL TO THE FRENCH MINISTER IN 1778.
--NOOOOO NOOOOOOOO'N NOOOO NOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOO NOOOOOOO NO nooo.




"And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?" --EDMUND BURKE'S
"Noo nooo, noo, nooo no noo noooo no noooo no no?" --NOOOOO NOOOO'N

REFERENCE IN PARLIAMENT TO THE NANTUCKET WHALE-FISHERY.
NOOOOOOOO NO NOOOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOO-NOOOOOO.




"Spain--a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe." --EDMUND BURKE.
"Noooo--n noooo noooo nooooooo no noo nooooo no Nooooo." --NOOOOO NOOOO.

(SOMEWHERE.)
(NOOOOOOOO.)




"A tenth branch of the king's ordinary revenue, said to be grounded on
"N noooo nooooo no noo nooo'n nooooooo noooooo, nooo no no nooooooo no

the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas from pirates
noo noooooooooooo no noo nooooooo noo nooooooooo noo nooo nooo noooooo

and robbers, is the right to royal fish, which are whale and sturgeon.
noo noooooo, no noo noooo no noooo nooo, noooo noo noooo noo nooooooo.

And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the coast, are the
Noo noooo, nooo nooooo nooooo nooooo no nooooo nooo noo noooo, noo noo

property of the king." --BLACKSTONE.
nooooooo no noo nooo." --NOOOOOOOOO.




     "Soon to the sport of death the crews repair:
     "Nooo no noo noooo no noooo noo noooo nooooo:

     Rodmond unerring o'er his head suspends
     Noooooo nooooooo n'no noo nooo nooooooo

     The barbed steel, and every turn attends."
     Noo nooooo noooo, noo noooo nooo noooooo."

     --FALCONER'S SHIPWRECK.
     --NOOOOOOO'N NOOOOOOOO.




     "Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires,
     "Nooooo noooo noo noooo, noo noooo, noo nooooo,

     And rockets blew self driven,
     Noo noooooo nooo nooo nooooo,

     To hang their momentary fire
     No nooo noooo noooooooo nooo

     Around the vault of heaven.
     Nooooo noo noooo no nooooo.




     "So fire with water to compare,
     "No nooo nooo noooo no noooooo,

     The ocean serves on high,
     Noo noooo nooooo no nooo,

     Up-spouted by a whale in air,
     No-noooooo no n noooo no noo,

     To express unwieldy joy." --COWPER, ON THE QUEEN'S
     No noooooo nooooooo noo." --NOOOOO, NO NOO NOOOO'N

     VISIT TO LONDON.
     NOOOO NO NOOOOO.




"Ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of the heart at
"Noo no noooooo noooooo no noooo noo nooooo noo no noo noooo no

a stroke, with immense velocity." --JOHN HUNTER'S ACCOUNT OF THE
n nooooo, nooo noooooo nooooooo." --NOOO NOOOOO'N NOOOOOO NO NOO

DISSECTION OF A WHALE. (A SMALL SIZED ONE.)
NOOOOOOOOO NO N NOOOO. (N NOOOO NOOOO NOO.)




"The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the
"Noo noooo no n noooo no nooooo no noo nooo nooo noo nooo nooo no noo

water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage
noooo-noooo no Nooooo Nooooo, noo noo noooo noooooo no noo noooooo

through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood
noooooo nooo nooo no nooooooo no noooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo

gushing from the whale's heart." --PALEY'S THEOLOGY.
noooooo nooo noo noooo'n noooo." --NOOOO'N NOOOOOOO.




"The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet." --BARON CUVIER.
"Noo noooo no n noooooooooo nooooo noooooo nooo nooo." --NOOOO NOOOOO.




"In 40 degrees south, we saw Spermacetti Whales, but did not take
"No no noooooo noooo, no noo Noooooooooo Nooooo, noo noo noo nooo

any till the first of May, the sea being then covered with them."
noo nooo noo noooo no Noo, noo noo noooo nooo noooooo nooo nooo."

--COLNETT'S VOYAGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF EXTENDING THE SPERMACETI WHALE
--NOOOOOO'N NOOOOO NOO NOO NOOOOOO NO NOOOOOOOO NOO NOOOOOOOOO NOOOO

FISHERY.
NOOOOOO.




     "In the free element beneath me swam,
     "No noo nooo noooooo noooooo no nooo,

     Floundered and dived, in play, in chace, in battle,
     Nooooooooo noo noooo, no nooo, no noooo, no nooooo,

     Fishes of every colour, form, and kind;
     Nooooo no noooo nooooo, nooo, noo nooo;

     Which language cannot paint, and mariner
     Noooo nooooooo nooooo noooo, noo noooooo

     Had never seen; from dread Leviathan
     Noo noooo nooo; nooo noooo Noooooooo

     To insect millions peopling every wave:
     No nooooo nooooooo nooooooo noooo nooo:

     Gather'd in shoals immense, like floating islands,
     Nooooo'n no nooooo noooooo, nooo nooooooo noooooo,

     Led by mysterious instincts through that waste
     Noo no nooooooooo noooooooo noooooo nooo noooo

     And trackless region, though on every side
     Noo noooooooo nooooo, nooooo no noooo nooo

     Assaulted by voracious enemies,
     Noooooooo no noooooooo noooooo,

     Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm'd in front or jaw,
     Nooooo, nooooo, noo nooooooo, noo'n no noooo no noo,

     With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs."
     Nooo nooooo, nooo, nooooo noooo, no nooooo noooo."

     --MONTGOMERY'S WORLD BEFORE THE FLOOD.
     --NOOOOOOOOO'N NOOOO NOOOOO NOO NOOOO.




     "Io!  Paean!  Io! sing.
     "No!  Noooo!  No! nooo.

     To the finny people's king.
     No noo noooo nooooo'n nooo.

     Not a mightier whale than this
     Noo n nooooooo noooo nooo nooo

     In the vast Atlantic is;
     No noo nooo Nooooooo no;

     Not a fatter fish than he,
     Noo n nooooo nooo nooo no,

     Flounders round the Polar Sea."
     Noooooooo noooo noo Noooo Noo."

     --CHARLES LAMB'S TRIUMPH OF THE WHALE.
     --NOOOOOO NOOO'N NOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOO.




"In the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing the
"No noo nooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo no n nooo nooo noooooooo noo

whales spouting and sporting with each other, when one observed:
nooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo noooo, nooo noo nooooooo:

there--pointing to the sea--is a green pasture where our children's
noooo--nooooooo no noo noo--no n noooo noooooo noooo noo nooooooo'n

grand-children will go for bread." --OBED MACY'S HISTORY OF NANTUCKET.
noooo-nooooooo nooo no noo noooo." --NOOO NOOO'N NOOOOOO NO NOOOOOOOO.




"I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the form
"N noooo n noooooo noo Noooo noo nooooo noo nooo n noooooo no noo nooo

of a Gothic Arch, by setting up a whale's jaw bones." --HAWTHORNE'S
no n Nooooo Nooo, no noooooo no n noooo'n noo noooo." --NOOOOOOOO'N

TWICE TOLD TALES.
NOOOO NOOO NOOOO.




"She came to bespeak a monument for her first love, who had been killed
"Noo nooo no noooooo n nooooooo noo noo noooo nooo, noo noo nooo nooooo

by a whale in the Pacific ocean, no less than forty years ago." --IBID.
no n noooo no noo Noooooo noooo, no nooo nooo noooo noooo noo." --NOOO.




"No, Sir, 'tis a Right Whale," answered Tom; "I saw his sprout; he threw
"No, Noo, 'noo n Noooo Noooo," nooooooo Noo; "N noo noo nooooo; no noooo

up a pair of as pretty rainbows as a Christian would wish to look at.
no n nooo no no nooooo nooooooo no n Noooooooo noooo nooo no nooo no.

He's a raal oil-butt, that fellow!" --COOPER'S PILOT.
No'n n nooo noo-nooo, nooo nooooo!" --NOOOOO'N NOOOO.




"The papers were brought in, and we saw in the Berlin Gazette
"Noo nooooo nooo noooooo no, noo no noo no noo Nooooo Noooooo

that whales had been introduced on the stage there." --ECKERMANN'S
nooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooooo no noo noooo noooo." --NOOOOOOOO'N

CONVERSATIONS WITH GOETHE.
NOOOOOOOOOOOO NOOO NOOOOO.




"My God! Mr. Chace, what is the matter?" I answered, "we have been stove
"No Noo! No. Noooo, nooo no noo nooooo?" N nooooooo, "no nooo nooo noooo

by a whale." --"NARRATIVE OF THE SHIPWRECK OF THE WHALE SHIP ESSEX OF
no n noooo." --"NOOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOO NOOO NOOOO NO

NANTUCKET, WHICH WAS ATTACKED AND FINALLY DESTROYED BY A LARGE SPERM
NOOOOOOOO, NOOOO NOO NOOOOOOO NOO NOOOOOO NOOOOOOOO NO N NOOOO NOOOO

WHALE IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN." BY OWEN CHACE OF NANTUCKET, FIRST MATE OF
NOOOO NO NOO NOOOOOO NOOOO." NO NOOO NOOOO NO NOOOOOOOO, NOOOO NOOO NO

SAID VESSEL. NEW YORK, 1821.
NOOO NOOOOO. NOO NOOO, nooo.




     "A mariner sat in the shrouds one night,
     "N noooooo noo no noo noooooo noo noooo,

     The wind was piping free;
     Noo nooo noo nooooo nooo;

     Now bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale,
     Noo nooooo, noo nooooo, noo noo noooooooo nooo,

     And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale,
     Noo noo nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo no noo noooo,

     As it floundered in the sea."
     No no nooooooooo no noo noo."

     --ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH.
     --NOOOOOOOO NOOOO NOOOO.




"The quantity of line withdrawn from the boats engaged in the capture
"Noo nooooooo no nooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo noooooo no noo noooooo

of this one whale, amounted altogether to 10,440 yards or nearly six
no nooo noo noooo, nooooooo nooooooooo no no,noo noooo no nooooo noo

English miles....
Noooooo noooo....




"Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the air, which,
"Noooooooo noo noooo nooooo noo nooooooooo nooo no noo noo, noooo,

cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of three or four miles."
nooooooo nooo n nooo, nooooooo no noo nooooooo no noooo no nooo noooo."

--SCORESBY.
--NOOOOOOO.




"Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks, the
"Noo nooo noo noooooo no noooooo nooo noooo noooo noooooo, noo

infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over; he rears his enormous head,
nooooooooo Noooo Noooo noooo nooo noo nooo; no noooo noo nooooooo nooo,

and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him; he rushes
noo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noooo no nooooooooo nooooo noo; no nooooo

at the boats with his head; they are propelled before him with vast
no noo noooo nooo noo nooo; nooo noo noooooooo nooooo noo nooo nooo

swiftness, and sometimes utterly destroyed.... It is a matter of great
noooooooo, noo noooooooo noooooo noooooooo.... No no n nooooo no noooo

astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting,
nooooooooooo nooo noo noooooooooooo no noo nooooo no no noooooooooo,

and, in a commercial point of view, so important an animal (as the Sperm
noo, no n nooooooooo noooo no nooo, no noooooooo no nooooo (no noo Noooo

Whale) should have been so entirely neglected, or should have excited
Noooo) nooooo nooo nooo no nooooooo noooooooo, no nooooo nooo noooooo

so little curiosity among the numerous, and many of them competent
no nooooo noooooooo noooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo no nooo noooooooo

observers, that of late years, must have possessed the most abundant
noooooooo, nooo no nooo noooo, nooo nooo noooooooo noo nooo nooooooo

and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes."
noo noo nooo nooooooooo noooooooooooo no nooooooooo noooo noooooooo."

--THOMAS BEALE'S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE, 1839.
--NOOOOO NOOOO'N NOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOO NOOOO, nooo.




"The Cachalot" (Sperm Whale) "is not only better armed than the True
"Noo Nooooooo" (Noooo Noooo) "no noo nooo nooooo noooo nooo noo Nooo

Whale" (Greenland or Right Whale) "in possessing a formidable weapon
Noooo" (Noooooooo no Noooo Noooo) "no nooooooooo n nooooooooo nooooo

at either extremity of its body, but also more frequently displays a
no nooooo noooooooo no noo nooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo n

disposition to employ these weapons offensively and in manner at once so
noooooooooo no nooooo noooo noooooo noooooooooo noo no nooooo no nooo no

artful, bold, and mischievous, as to lead to its being regarded as the
nooooo, nooo, noo noooooooooo, no no nooo no noo noooo nooooooo no noo

most dangerous to attack of all the known species of the whale tribe."
nooo noooooooo no nooooo no noo noo noooo noooooo no noo noooo noooo."

--FREDERICK DEBELL BENNETT'S WHALING VOYAGE ROUND THE GLOBE, 1840.
--NOOOOOOOO NOOOOO NOOOOOO'N NOOOOOO NOOOOO NOOOO NOO NOOOO, nooo.




     October 13.  "There she blows," was sung out from the mast-head.
     Noooooo no.  "Noooo noo noooo," noo nooo noo nooo noo nooo-nooo.

     "Where away?" demanded the captain.
     "Noooo nooo?" nooooooo noo noooooo.

     "Three points off the lee bow, sir."
     "Noooo nooooo noo noo noo noo, noo."

     "Raise up your wheel.  Steady!"  "Steady, sir."
     "Noooo no nooo noooo.  Nooooo!"  "Nooooo, noo."

     "Mast-head ahoy!  Do you see that whale now?"
     "Nooo-nooo nooo!  No noo noo nooo noooo noo?"

     "Ay ay, sir!  A shoal of Sperm Whales!  There she blows!  There she
     "No no, noo!  N noooo no Noooo Nooooo!  Noooo noo noooo!  Noooo noo

     breaches!"
     nooooooo!"

     "Sing out! sing out every time!"
     "Nooo noo! nooo noo noooo nooo!"

     "Ay Ay, sir!  There she blows! there--there--THAR she
     "No No, noo!  Noooo noo noooo! noooo--noooo--NOOO noo

     blows--bowes--bo-o-os!"
     noooo--noooo--no-n-no!"

     "How far off?"
     "Noo noo noo?"

     "Two miles and a half."
     "Noo noooo noo n nooo."

     "Thunder and lightning! so near!  Call all hands."
     "Noooooo noo noooooooo! no nooo!  Nooo noo noooo."

     --J. ROSS BROWNE'S ETCHINGS OF A WHALING CRUIZE.  1846.
     --N. NOOO NOOOOO'N NOOOOOOO NO N NOOOOOO NOOOOO.  nooo.




"The Whale-ship Globe, on board of which vessel occurred the horrid
"Noo Noooo-nooo Noooo, no noooo no noooo nooooo nooooooo noo nooooo

transactions we are about to relate, belonged to the island of
nooooooooooo no noo noooo no nooooo, nooooooo no noo nooooo no

Nantucket." --"NARRATIVE OF THE GLOBE," BY LAY AND HUSSEY SURVIVORS.
Noooooooo." --"NOOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOO," NO NOO NOO NOOOOO NOOOOOOOO.

A.D. 1828.
N.N. nooo.




Being once pursued by a whale which he had wounded, he parried the
Noooo nooo noooooo no n noooo noooo no noo noooooo, no noooooo noo

assault for some time with a lance; but the furious monster at length
noooooo noo nooo nooo nooo n noooo; noo noo noooooo noooooo no nooooo

rushed on the boat; himself and comrades only being preserved by leaping
nooooo no noo nooo; noooooo noo nooooooo nooo noooo noooooooo no noooooo

into the water when they saw the onset was inevitable." --MISSIONARY
nooo noo noooo nooo nooo noo noo noooo noo nooooooooo." --NOOOOOOOOO

JOURNAL OF TYERMAN AND BENNETT.
NOOOOOO NO NOOOOOO NOO NOOOOOO.




"Nantucket itself," said Mr. Webster, "is a very striking and peculiar
"Noooooooo nooooo," nooo No. Noooooo, "no n nooo nooooooo noo nooooooo

portion of the National interest. There is a population of eight or nine
noooooo no noo Nooooooo nooooooo. Noooo no n nooooooooo no noooo no nooo

thousand persons living here in the sea, adding largely every year
nooooooo noooooo nooooo nooo no noo noo, nooooo noooooo noooo nooo

to the National wealth by the boldest and most persevering industry."
no noo Nooooooo nooooo no noo noooooo noo nooo noooooooooo nooooooo."

--REPORT OF DANIEL WEBSTER'S SPEECH IN THE U. S. SENATE, ON THE
--NOOOOO NO NOOOOO NOOOOOO'N NOOOOO NO NOO N. N. NOOOOO, NO NOO

APPLICATION FOR THE ERECTION OF A BREAKWATER AT NANTUCKET. 1828.
NOOOOOOOOOO NOO NOO NOOOOOOO NO N NOOOOOOOOO NO NOOOOOOOO. nooo.




"The whale fell directly over him, and probably killed him in a moment."
"Noo noooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo, noo nooooooo nooooo noo no n nooooo."

--"THE WHALE AND HIS CAPTORS, OR THE WHALEMAN'S ADVENTURES AND THE
--"NOO NOOOO NOO NOO NOOOOOO, NO NOO NOOOOOOO'N NOOOOOOOOO NOO NOO

WHALE'S BIOGRAPHY, GATHERED ON THE HOMEWARD CRUISE OF THE COMMODORE
NOOOO'N NOOOOOOOO, NOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOOOO NOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOOOOO

PREBLE." BY REV. HENRY T. CHEEVER.
NOOOOO." NO NOO. NOOOO N. NOOOOOO.




"If you make the least damn bit of noise," replied Samuel, "I will send
"No noo nooo noo noooo nooo noo no noooo," noooooo Nooooo, "N nooo nooo

you to hell." --LIFE OF SAMUEL COMSTOCK (THE MUTINEER), BY HIS BROTHER,
noo no nooo." --NOOO NO NOOOOO NOOOOOOO (NOO NOOOOOOO), NO NOO NOOOOOO,

WILLIAM COMSTOCK. ANOTHER VERSION OF THE WHALE-SHIP GLOBE NARRATIVE.
NOOOOOO NOOOOOOO. NOOOOOO NOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOO-NOOO NOOOO NOOOOOOOO.




"The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order,
"Noo noooooo no noo Noooo noo Noooooo no noo Nooooooo Noooo, no noooo,

if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, though they
no nooooooo, no nooooooo n noooooo noooooo no no Noooo, nooooo nooo

failed of their main object, laid-open the haunts of the whale."
nooooo no noooo nooo nooooo, nooo-nooo noo nooooo no noo noooo."

--MCCULLOCH'S COMMERCIAL DICTIONARY.
--NOOOOOOOO'N NOOOOOOOOO NOOOOOOOOO.




"These things are reciprocal; the ball rebounds, only to bound forward
"Noooo nooooo noo nooooooooo; noo nooo nooooooo, nooo no noooo noooooo

again; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale, the whalemen seem
noooo; noo noo no nooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo nooo

to have indirectly hit upon new clews to that same mystic North-West
no nooo nooooooooo noo nooo noo noooo no nooo nooo nooooo Noooo-Nooo

Passage." --FROM "SOMETHING" UNPUBLISHED.
Noooooo." --NOOO "NOOOOOOOO" NOOOOOOOOOO.




"It is impossible to meet a whale-ship on the ocean without being struck
"No no nooooooooo no nooo n noooo-nooo no noo noooo noooooo noooo nooooo

by her near appearance. The vessel under short sail, with look-outs at
no noo nooo nooooooooo. Noo nooooo noooo noooo nooo, nooo nooo-nooo no

the mast-heads, eagerly scanning the wide expanse around them, has a
noo nooo-noooo, noooooo nooooooo noo nooo noooooo nooooo nooo, noo n

totally different air from those engaged in regular voyage." --CURRENTS
noooooo noooooooo noo nooo noooo noooooo no noooooo nooooo." --NOOOOOOO

AND WHALING. U.S. EX. EX.
NOO NOOOOOO. N.N. NO. NO.




"Pedestrians in the vicinity of London and elsewhere may recollect
"Noooooooooo no noo nooooooo no Nooooo noo noooooooo noo noooooooo

having seen large curved bones set upright in the earth, either to form
nooooo nooo noooo nooooo noooo noo noooooo no noo noooo, nooooo no nooo

arches over gateways, or entrances to alcoves, and they may perhaps
nooooo nooo nooooooo, no noooooooo no noooooo, noo nooo noo noooooo

have been told that these were the ribs of whales." --TALES OF A WHALE
nooo nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo noo nooo no nooooo." --NOOOO NO N NOOOO

VOYAGER TO THE ARCTIC OCEAN.
NOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOO NOOOO.




"It was not till the boats returned from the pursuit of these whales,
"No noo noo nooo noo noooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo no noooo nooooo,

that the whites saw their ship in bloody possession of the savages
nooo noo nooooo noo noooo nooo no nooooo nooooooooo no noo noooooo

enrolled among the crew." --NEWSPAPER ACCOUNT OF THE TAKING AND RETAKING
nooooooo noooo noo nooo." --NOOOOOOOO NOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOO NOO NOOOOOOO

OF THE WHALE-SHIP HOBOMACK.
NO NOO NOOOO-NOOO NOOOOOOO.




"It is generally well known that out of the crews of Whaling vessels
"No no noooooooo nooo noooo nooo noo no noo noooo no Noooooo noooooo

(American) few ever return in the ships on board of which they
(Nooooooo) noo nooo nooooo no noo noooo no noooo no noooo nooo

departed." --CRUISE IN A WHALE BOAT.
nooooooo." --NOOOOO NO N NOOOO NOOO.




"Suddenly a mighty mass emerged from the water, and shot up
"Nooooooo n nooooo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo no

perpendicularly into the air. It was the while." --MIRIAM COFFIN OR THE
noooooooooooooo nooo noo noo. No noo noo noooo." --NOOOOO NOOOOO NO NOO

WHALE FISHERMAN.
NOOOO NOOOOOOOO.




"The Whale is harpooned to be sure; but bethink you, how you would
"Noo Noooo no noooooooo no no nooo; noo noooooo noo, noo noo noooo

manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of a rope tied
nooooo n nooooooo nooooooo nooo, nooo noo nooo noooooooo no n nooo nooo

to the root of his tail." --A CHAPTER ON WHALING IN RIBS AND TRUCKS.
no noo nooo no noo nooo." --N NOOOOOO NO NOOOOOO NO NOOO NOO NOOOOO.




"On one occasion I saw two of these monsters (whales) probably male and
"No noo nooooooo N noo noo no noooo nooooooo (nooooo) nooooooo nooo noo

female, slowly swimming, one after the other, within less than a stone's
nooooo, nooooo nooooooo, noo noooo noo noooo, nooooo nooo nooo n noooo'n

throw of the shore" (Terra Del Fuego), "over which the beech tree
noooo no noo noooo" (Noooo Noo Noooo), "nooo noooo noo noooo nooo

extended its branches." --DARWIN'S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST.
nooooooo noo nooooooo." --NOOOOO'N NOOOOO NO N NOOOOOOOOO.




"'Stern all!' exclaimed the mate, as upon turning his head, he saw the
"'Noooo noo!' noooooooo noo nooo, no nooo noooooo noo nooo, no noo noo

distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale close to the head of the boat,
noooooooo nooo no n noooo Noooo Noooo noooo no noo nooo no noo nooo,

threatening it with instant destruction;--'Stern all, for your lives!'"
noooooooooo no nooo noooooo noooooooooo;--'Noooo noo, noo nooo noooo!'"

--WHARTON THE WHALE KILLER.
--NOOOOOO NOO NOOOO NOOOOO.




"So be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail, While the bold
"No no nooooo, no nooo, noo nooo nooooo noooo nooo, Noooo noo nooo

harpooneer is striking the whale!" --NANTUCKET SONG.
nooooooooo no nooooooo noo noooo!" --NOOOOOOOO NOOO.




     "Oh, the rare old Whale, mid storm and gale
     "No, noo nooo noo Noooo, noo noooo noo nooo

     In his ocean home will be
     No noo noooo nooo nooo no

     A giant in might, where might is right,
     N noooo no noooo, noooo noooo no noooo,

     And King of the boundless sea."
     Noo Nooo no noo noooooooo noo."

     --WHALE SONG.
     --NOOOO NOOO.













CHAPTER 1. Loomings.
NOOOOOO n. Nooooooo.







Call me Ishmael. Some years ago--never mind how long precisely--having
Nooo no Noooooo. Nooo noooo noo--noooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo--nooooo

little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me on
nooooo no no noooo no no noooo, noo noooooo nooooooooo no nooooooo no no

shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of
noooo, N noooooo N noooo nooo noooo n nooooo noo noo noo nooooo nooo no

the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and regulating
noo noooo. No no n noo N nooo no noooooo noo noo nooooo noo nooooooooo

the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth;
noo noooooooooo. Nooooooo N nooo nooooo noooooo nooo noooo noo noooo;

whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find
nooooooo no no n nooo, noooooo Nooooooo no no nooo; nooooooo N nooo

myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up
nooooo noooooooooooo noooooo nooooo nooooo nooooooooo, noo nooooooo no

the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get
noo nooo no noooo noooooo N nooo; noo nooooooooo nooooooo no noooo noo

such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to
nooo no noooo nooo no no, nooo no nooooooo n nooooo noooo noooooooo no

prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically
noooooo no nooo nooooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo, noo nooooooooooo

knocking people's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea
nooooooo nooooo'n nooo noo--nooo, N noooooo no nooo nooo no noo no noo

as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball. With a
no nooo no N noo. Nooo no no nooooooooo noo nooooo noo nooo. Nooo n

philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly
noooooooooooo nooooooo Nooo nooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo; N noooooo

take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they but knew
nooo no noo nooo. Noooo no noooooo nooooooooo no nooo. No nooo noo nooo

it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other, cherish very
no, nooooo noo noo no noooo nooooo, nooo nooo no noooo, noooooo nooo

nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.
nooooo noo nooo nooooooo noooooo noo noooo nooo no.




There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by
Noooo noo no nooo noooooo nooo no noo Nooooooooo, nooooo noooo no

wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs--commerce surrounds it with
noooooo no Nooooo noooo no noooo noooo--nooooooo noooooooo no nooo

her surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme
noo nooo. Noooo noo nooo, noo noooooo nooo noo noooooooo. Noo noooooo

downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
nooooooo no noo noooooo, noooo nooo noooo nooo no nooooo no noooo, noo

cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land.
nooooo no noooooo, noooo n noo noooo nooooooo nooo noo no noooo no nooo.

Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.
Nooo no noo nooooo no noooo-nooooo noooo.




Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
Nooooooooooooo noo nooo no n nooooo Noooooo noooooooo. No nooo Nooooooo

Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What
Nooo no Nooooooo Nooo, noo nooo nooooo, no Noooooooo, noooooooo. Nooo

do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
no noo noo?--Nooooo nooo nooooo noooooooo noo nooooo noo nooo, noooo

thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
noooooooo nooo noooooooo no nooooo noo noooo no noooo nooooooo. Nooo

leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some
noooooo noooooo noo nooooo; nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo-noooo; nooo

looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the
noooooo nooo noo nooooooo no noooo nooo Noooo; nooo nooo noooo no noo

rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But these
noooooo, no no nooooooo no noo n noooo nooooo noooooo nooo. Noo noooo

are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster--tied to
noo noo nooooooo; no nooo nooo nooo no no nooo noo noooooo--nooo no

counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Are
nooooooo, nooooo no noooooo, nooooooo no noooo. Noo nooo no nooo? Noo

the green fields gone? What do they here?
noo noooo nooooo nooo? Nooo no nooo nooo?




But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and
Noo nooo! nooo nooo nooo nooooo, nooooo nooooooo noo noo noooo, noo

seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but the
noooooooo noooo noo n nooo. Noooooo! Noooooo nooo noooooo nooo noo noo

extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder
noooooooo noooo no noo nooo; noooooooo noooo noo noooo noo no nooooo

warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water
nooooooooo nooo noo noooooo. No. Nooo nooo noo nooo no nooo noo noooo

as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand--miles of
no nooo nooooooo noo noooooo noooooo no. Noo noooo nooo noooo--noooo no

them--leagues. Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets
nooo--noooooo. Noooooooo noo, nooo nooo nooo noooo noo nooooo, noooooo

and avenues--north, east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite.
noo noooooo--noooo, nooo, noooo, noo nooo. Noo nooo nooo noo noooo.

Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all
Nooo no, nooo noo nooooooo nooooo no noo noooooo no noo noooooooo no noo

those ships attract them thither?
noooo noooo noooooo nooo noooooo?




Once more. Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take
Nooo nooo. Noo noo noo no noo noooooo; no nooo nooo nooo no noooo. Nooo

almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a
nooooo noo nooo noo nooooo, noo noo no noo no noooooo noo nooo no n

dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic
nooo, noo nooooo noo noooo no n nooo no noo nooooo. Noooo no noooo

in it. Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest
no no. Noo noo nooo nooooo-nooooo no noo no noooooo no noo noooooo

reveries--stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will
nooooooo--noooo nooo noo no noo nooo, noo noo nooo n-noooo, noo no nooo

infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in all that region.
nooooooooo nooo noo no noooo, no noooo noooo no no noo nooo nooooo.

Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this
Nooooo noo nooo no noooooo no noo noooo Nooooooo nooooo, noo nooo

experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
nooooooooo, no nooo noooooo nooooo no no nooooooo nooo n nooooooooooo

professor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for
noooooooo. Noo, no noooo noo noooo, nooooooooo noo noooo noo nooooo noo

ever.
nooo.




But here is an artist. He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,
Noo nooo no no nooooo. No noooooo no noooo noo noo noooooooo, nooooooo,

quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of
nooooooo, nooo nooooooooo noo no nooooooo noooooooo no noo noo nooooo no

the Saco. What is the chief element he employs? There stand his trees,
noo Nooo. Nooo no noo noooo noooooo no noooooo? Noooo noooo noo noooo,

each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and
nooo nooo n nooooo noooo, no no n nooooo noo n nooooooo nooo nooooo; noo

here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder
nooo nooooo noo nooooo, noo noooo noooo noo nooooo; noo no nooo nooooo

cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlands winds a
noooooo nooo n nooooo noooo. Nooo nooo noooooo noooooooo noooo n

mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their
nooo noo, nooooooo no noooooooooo noooo no noooooooo nooooo no noooo

hill-side blue. But though the picture lies thus tranced, and though
nooo-nooo nooo. Noo nooooo noo noooooo nooo nooo noooooo, noo nooooo

this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this shepherd's
nooo nooo-nooo nooooo nooo noo noooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo'n

head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd's eye were fixed upon the
nooo, noo noo nooo nooo, nooooo noo nooooooo'n noo nooo noooo nooo noo

magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June, when for scores
noooo nooooo nooooo noo. No noooo noo Nooooooo no Nooo, nooo noo nooooo

on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what is the
no nooooo no noooo noo nooo nooo-nooo noooo Noooo-nooooo--nooo no noo

one charm wanting?--Water--there is not a drop of water there! Were
noo noooo noooooo?--Noooo--noooo no noo n nooo no noooo noooo! Nooo

Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to
Noooooo noo n nooooooo no nooo, noooo noo nooooo nooo nooooooo noooo no

see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two
noo no? Noo noo noo nooo nooo no Noooooooo, nooo nooooooo noooooooo noo

handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly
nooooooo no nooooo, nooooooooo noooooo no noo noo n nooo, noooo no noooo

needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach? Why
nooooo, no nooooo noo noooo no n nooooooooo nooo no Nooooooo Noooo? Noo

is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at
no nooooo noooo nooooo noooooo noo nooo n nooooo noooooo nooo no noo, no

some time or other crazy to go to sea? Why upon your first voyage as a
nooo nooo no noooo noooo no no no noo? Noo nooo nooo noooo nooooo no n

passenger, did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first
noooooooo, noo noo nooooooo nooo nooo n nooooooo noooooooo, nooo noooo

told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land? Why did the
nooo nooo noo noo nooo nooo nooo noo noo no noooo no nooo? Noo noo noo

old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did the Greeks give it a separate
noo Nooooooo nooo noo noo nooo? Noo noo noo Nooooo nooo no n nooooooo

deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely all this is not without meaning.
noooo, noo noo noooooo no Nooo? Nooooo noo nooo no noo noooooo noooooo.

And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus, who because
Noo noooo nooooo noo noooooo no nooo noooo no Noooooooo, noo noooooo

he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image he saw in the fountain,
no noooo noo noooo noo nooooooooo, nooo noooo no noo no noo nooooooo,

plunged into it and was drowned. But that same image, we ourselves see
noooooo nooo no noo noo noooooo. Noo nooo nooo noooo, no noooooooo noo

in all rivers and oceans. It is the image of the ungraspable phantom of
no noo nooooo noo nooooo. No no noo noooo no noo noooooooooo noooooo no

life; and this is the key to it all.
nooo; noo nooo no noo noo no no noo.




Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin
Noo, nooo N noo nooo N no no noo noooo no noooo no noo nooooooo N noooo

to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs,
no nooo nooo noooo noo nooo, noo noooo no no nooo noooooooo no no noooo,

I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger.
N no noo nooo no nooo no nooooooo nooo N nooo no no noo no n noooooooo.

For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a purse is
Noo no no no n noooooooo noo nooo noooo nooo n noooo, noo n noooo no

but a rag unless you have something in it. Besides, passengers get
noo n noo nooooo noo nooo noooooooo no no. Noooooo, nooooooooo noo

sea-sick--grow quarrelsome--don't sleep of nights--do not enjoy
noo-nooo--nooo noooooooooo--noo'n noooo no nooooo--no noo noooo

themselves much, as a general thing;--no, I never go as a passenger;
nooooooooo nooo, no n noooooo noooo;--no, N noooo no no n noooooooo;

nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
noo, nooooo N no noooooooo no n nooo, no N nooo no no noo no n

Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the glory and distinction
Noooooooo, no n Noooooo, no n Nooo. N noooooo noo noooo noo noooooooooo

of such offices to those who like them. For my part, I abominate all
no nooo noooooo no noooo noo nooo nooo. Noo no nooo, N noooooooo noo

honourable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind
nooooooooo noooooooooo noooo, nooooo, noo nooooooooooo no noooo nooo

whatsoever. It is quite as much as I can do to take care of myself,
nooooooooo. No no noooo no nooo no N noo no no nooo nooo no nooooo,

without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.
noooooo nooooo nooo no noooo, noooooo, noooo, noooooooo, noo nooo noo.

And as for going as cook,--though I confess there is considerable glory
Noo no noo noooo no nooo,--nooooo N noooooo noooo no nooooooooooo noooo

in that, a cook being a sort of officer on ship-board--yet, somehow,
no nooo, n nooo noooo n nooo no noooooo no nooo-noooo--noo, noooooo,

I never fancied broiling fowls;--though once broiled, judiciously
N noooo noooooo nooooooo noooo;--nooooo nooo noooooo, noooooooooo

buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered, there is no one who
nooooooo, noo noooooooooooo nooooo noo nooooooo, noooo no no noo noo

will speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled
nooo noooo nooo nooooooooooo, noo no noo noooooooooooo, no n noooooo

fowl than I will. It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old
nooo nooo N nooo. No no noo no noo nooooooooo noooooo no noo noo

Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the
Noooooooo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo noooo, nooo noo noo noo

mummies of those creatures in their huge bake-houses the pyramids.
noooooo no noooo noooooooo no noooo nooo nooo-nooooo noo nooooooo.




No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before the mast,
No, nooo N no no noo, N no no n nooooo nooooo, noooo nooooo noo nooo,

plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal mast-head.
noooo nooo nooo noo nooooooooo, noooo noooo no noo noooo nooo-nooo.

True, they rather order me about some, and make me jump from spar to
Nooo, nooo nooooo noooo no noooo nooo, noo nooo no nooo nooo nooo no

spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at first, this sort
nooo, nooo n noooooooooo no n Noo nooooo. Noo no noooo, nooo nooo

of thing is unpleasant enough. It touches one's sense of honour,
no noooo no nooooooooo nooooo. No noooooo noo'n noooo no nooooo,

particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the
nooooooooooo no noo nooo no no noo noooooooooo nooooo no noo nooo, noo

Van Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all,
Noo Noooooooooo, no Noooooooo, no Nooooooooooo. Noo nooo nooo noo,

if just previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been
no nooo nooooooo no noooooo nooo nooo nooo noo noo-noo, noo nooo nooo

lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand
noooooo no no n noooooo nooooooooooo, nooooo noo noooooo nooo noooo

in awe of you. The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a
no noo no noo. Noo nooooooooo no n nooo noo, N nooooo noo, nooo n

schoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and
nooooooooooo no n nooooo, noo nooooooo n nooooo noooooooo no Nooooo noo

the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears off in
noo Nooooo no nooooo noo no nooo noo nooo no. Noo nooo nooo noooo noo no

time.
nooo.




What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom
Nooo no no, no nooo noo noooo no n noo-noooooo nooooo no no noo n noooo

and sweep down the decks? What does that indignity amount to, weighed,
noo noooo nooo noo noooo? Nooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooooo no, noooooo,

I mean, in the scales of the New Testament? Do you think the archangel
N nooo, no noo nooooo no noo Noo Noooooooo? No noo noooo noo noooooooo

Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and
Noooooo nooooo nooooooo noo nooo no no, noooooo N nooooooo noo

respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance? Who ain't
nooooooooooo nooo nooo noo noooo no nooo nooooooooo nooooooo? Noo noo'n

a slave? Tell me that. Well, then, however the old sea-captains may
n noooo? Nooo no nooo. Nooo, nooo, noooooo noo noo noo-nooooooo noo

order me about--however they may thump and punch me about, I have the
noooo no noooo--noooooo nooo noo noooo noo noooo no noooo, N nooo noo

satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else is
nooooooooooo no noooooo nooo no no noo noooo; nooo noooooooo nooo no

one way or other served in much the same way--either in a physical
noo noo no noooo nooooo no nooo noo nooo noo--nooooo no n nooooooo

or metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is
no nooooooooooo noooo no nooo, nooo no; noo no noo noooooooo noooo no

passed round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-blades, and
nooooo noooo, noo noo noooo nooooo noo nooo noooo'n nooooooo-nooooo, noo

be content.
no noooooo.




Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
Noooo, N nooooo no no noo no n nooooo, noooooo nooo nooo n noooo no

paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single
nooooo no noo no noooooo, noooooo nooo noooo noo nooooooooo n nooooo

penny that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must
noooo nooo N nooo noooo no. No noo nooooooo, nooooooooo nooooooooo nooo

pay. And there is all the difference in the world between paying
noo. Noo noooo no noo noo nooooooooo no noo noooo noooooo nooooo

and being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable
noo noooo nooo. Noo noo no nooooo no noooooo noo nooo noooooooooooo

infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But BEING
nooooooooo nooo noo noo noooooo noooooo nooooooo nooo no. Noo NOOOO

PAID,--what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man
NOOO,--nooo nooo noooooo nooo no? Noo nooooo nooooooo nooo noooo n noo

receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly
nooooooo noooo no nooooo nooooooooo, noooooooooo nooo no no noooooooo

believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no account
noooooo noooo no no noo nooo no noo noooooo nooo, noo nooo no no noooooo

can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign ourselves
noo n nooooo noo noooo nooooo. No! noo nooooooooo no noooooo noooooooo

to perdition!
no noooooooo!




Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome
Noooooo, N nooooo no no noo no n nooooo, noooooo no noo noooooooo

exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world,
nooooooo noo nooo noo no noo nooo-nooooo nooo. Noo no no nooo noooo,

head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is,
nooo noooo noo noo nooo noooooooo nooo noooo nooo nooooo (nooo no,

if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the
no noo noooo noooooo noo Noooooooooo noooo), no noo noo nooo nooo noo

Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from
Noooooooo no noo noooooo-nooo nooo noo nooooooooo no nooooo nooo nooo

the sailors on the forecastle. He thinks he breathes it first; but not
noo noooooo no noo nooooooooo. No nooooo no nooooooo no noooo; noo noo

so. In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
no. No nooo noo nooo noo no noo nooooooooo nooo noooo noooooo no nooo

other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it.
noooo nooooo, no noo nooo nooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo noooooo no.

But wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a
Noo noooooooo no noo nooo noooo nooooo nooooooooo noooo noo noo no n

merchant sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling
nooooooo nooooo, N nooooo noo nooo no nooo no nooo no no no n noooooo

voyage; this the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the
nooooo; nooo noo noooooooo nooooo noooooo no noo Noooo, noo noo noo

constant surveillance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me
nooooooo nooooooooooo no no, noo nooooooo nooo no, noo nooooooooo no

in some unaccountable way--he can better answer than any one else. And,
no nooo noooooooooooo noo--no noo nooooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooo. Noo,

doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of the grand
noooooooo, no noooo no nooo noooooo nooooo, nooooo nooo no noo noooo

programme of Providence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came in as
noooooooo no Nooooooooo nooo noo noooo no n nooo nooo noo. No nooo no no

a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive performances.
n nooo no noooo noooooooo noo nooo noooooo nooo noooooooo nooooooooooo.

I take it that this part of the bill must have run something like this:
N nooo no nooo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooo nooo noo noooooooo nooo nooo:







"GRAND CONTESTED ELECTION FOR THE PRESIDENCY OF THE UNITED STATES.
"NOOOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOOOOO NOO NOO NOOOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOO NOOOOO.




"WHALING VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL.
"NOOOOOO NOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOOO.




"BLOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN."
"NOOOOO NOOOOO NO NOOOOOOOOOOO."







Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, the
Nooooo N nooooo nooo noo no noo noooooo nooo noooo noooo nooooooo, noo

Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, when others
Noooo, noo no nooo noo nooo nooooo nooo no n noooooo nooooo, nooo nooooo

were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short and
nooo noo nooo noo noooooooooo noooo no nooo noooooooo, noo noooo noo

easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces--though
nooo noooo no noooooo nooooooo, noo noooo noooo no nooooo--nooooo

I cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the
N nooooo nooo noo nooo noo noooooo; noo, noo nooo N nooooo noo noo

circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives
noooooooooooo, N noooo N noo noo n nooooo nooo noo noooooo noo noooooo

which being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced
noooo noooo noooooooo noooooooo no no noooo noooooo noooooooo, noooooo

me to set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the
no no noo noooo nooooooooo noo nooo N noo, noooooo nooooooo no nooo noo

delusion that it was a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill
nooooooo nooo no noo n nooooo noooooooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooooooo

and discriminating judgment.
noo nooooooooooooo nooooooo.




Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great
Noooo noooo noooo noooooo noo noo nooooooooooo nooo no noo noooo

whale himself. Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my
noooo noooooo. Nooo n nooooooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo nooooo noo no

curiosity. Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island
noooooooo. Nooo noo nooo noo noooooo nooo noooo no nooooo noo nooooo

bulk; the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all
nooo; noo noooooooooooo, nooooooo nooooo no noo noooo; noooo, nooo noo

the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped
noo noooooooo noooooo no n nooooooo Nooooooooo nooooo noo nooooo, nooooo

to sway me to my wish. With other men, perhaps, such things would not
no nooo no no no nooo. Nooo noooo noo, noooooo, nooo nooooo noooo noo

have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting
nooo nooo noooooooooo; noo no noo no, N no noooooooo nooo no noooooooooo

itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, and land on
nooo noo nooooo nooooo. N nooo no nooo noooooooo nooo, noo nooo no

barbarous coasts. Not ignoring what is good, I am quick to perceive a
noooooooo nooooo. Noo nooooooo nooo no nooo, N no noooo no nooooooo n

horror, and could still be social with it--would they let me--since it
nooooo, noo noooo noooo no nooooo nooo no--noooo nooo noo no--noooo no

is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of the place
no noo nooo no no no nooooooo noooo nooo noo noo noooooo no noo noooo

one lodges in.
noo nooooo no.




By reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage was welcome; the
No nooooo no noooo nooooo, nooo, noo noooooo nooooo noo noooooo; noo

great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung open, and in the wild
noooo noooo-noooo no noo nooooo-noooo noooo nooo, noo no noo nooo

conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two there floated into
nooooooo nooo nooooo no no no noooooo, noo noo noo noooo noooooo nooo

my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid most of them
no nooooo nooo, noooooo noooooooooo no noo noooo, noo, noo nooo no nooo

all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.
noo, noo noooo nooooo noooooo, nooo n nooo nooo no noo noo.










CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag.
NOOOOOO n. Noo Nooooo-Noo.







I stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm,
N noooooo n noooo no noo nooo no noo nooooo-noo, nooooo no noooo no noo,

and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good city of
noo noooooo noo Nooo Nooo noo noo Noooooo. Nooooooo noo nooo nooo no

old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford. It was a Saturday night in
noo Nooooooo, N nooo noooooo no Noo Noooooo. No noo n Nooooooo noooo no

December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that the little packet
Nooooooo. Nooo noo N nooooooooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo

for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reaching that place
noo Noooooooo noo noooooo nooooo, noo nooo no noo no nooooooo nooo noooo

would offer, till the following Monday.
noooo noooo, nooo noo noooooooo Nooooo.




As most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop at
No nooo noooo nooooooooo noo noo noooo noo noooooooo no noooooo nooo no

this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as well
nooo nooo Noo Noooooo, nooooo no nooooo no noooo nooooo, no noo no nooo

be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was
no noooooo nooo N, noo noo, noo no nooo no no noooo. Noo no nooo noo

made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a
nooo no no nooo no no noooo nooo n Noooooooo noooo, noooooo noooo noo n

fine, boisterous something about everything connected with that famous
nooo, nooooooooo noooooooo noooo nooooooooo noooooooo nooo nooo nooooo

old island, which amazingly pleased me. Besides though New Bedford has
noo nooooo, noooo noooooooo noooooo no. Noooooo nooooo Noo Noooooo noo

of late been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and though
no nooo nooo noooooooo nooooooooooo noo nooooooo no noooooo, noo nooooo

in this matter poor old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket
no nooo nooooo nooo noo Noooooooo no noo nooo nooooo noo, noo Noooooooo

was her great original--the Tyre of this Carthage;--the place where the
noo noo noooo nooooooo--noo Nooo no nooo Nooooooo;--noo noooo noooo noo

first dead American whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucket
noooo nooo Nooooooo noooo noo nooooooo. Noooo nooo noo nooo Noooooooo

did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to
noo noooo nooooooooo nooooooo, noo Noo-Noo, noooo noooo noo no nooooo no

give chase to the Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, did that
nooo noooo no noo Noooooooo? Noo noooo noo nooo Noooooooo, noo, noo nooo

first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden with imported
noooo noooooooooo nooooo noooo noo noooo, nooooo noooo nooo nooooooo

cobblestones--so goes the story--to throw at the whales, in order to
nooooooooooo--no nooo noo noooo--no noooo no noo nooooo, no noooo no

discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit?
nooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo no nooo n noooooo nooo noo nooooooo?




Now having a night, a day, and still another night following before me
Noo nooooo n noooo, n noo, noo noooo noooooo noooo noooooooo nooooo no

in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became a
no Noo Noooooo, noo N noooo nooooo noo no nooooooo nooo, no nooooo n

matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was a
nooooo no noooooooooo noooo N noo no noo noo noooo noooooooo. No noo n

very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
nooo noooooo-noooooo, noo, n nooo nooo noo nooooo noooo, nooooooo nooo

and cheerless. I knew no one in the place. With anxious grapnels I had
noo noooooooo. N nooo no noo no noo noooo. Nooo noooooo nooooooo N noo

sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver,--So,
noooooo no nooooo, noo nooo noooooo no n noo nooooo no nooooo,--No,

wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of
nooooooo noo no, Noooooo, nooo N no nooooo, no N noooo no noo nooooo no

a dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the
n nooooo nooooo noooooooooo no noo, noo noooooooo noo noooo noooooo noo

north with the darkness towards the south--wherever in your wisdom you
noooo nooo noo nooooooo noooooo noo noooo--nooooooo no nooo nooooo noo

may conclude to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire
noo nooooooo no noooo noo noo noooo, no nooo Noooooo, no nooo no noooooo

the price, and don't be too particular.
noo noooo, noo noo'n no noo nooooooooo.




With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed the sign of "The
Nooo noooooo noooo N noooo noo noooooo, noo nooooo noo nooo no "Noo

Crossed Harpoons"--but it looked too expensive and jolly there. Further
Noooooo Nooooooo"--noo no nooooo noo noooooooo noo noooo noooo. Noooooo

on, from the bright red windows of the "Sword-Fish Inn," there came such
no, nooo noo nooooo noo noooooo no noo "Noooo-Nooo Noo," noooo nooo nooo

fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice from
noooooo nooo, nooo no nooooo no nooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo noo noo nooo

before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches
nooooo noo noooo, noo nooooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo noo noo nooooo

thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement,--rather weary for me, when I struck
noooo no n nooo, noooooooo nooooooo,--nooooo noooo noo no, nooo N nooooo

my foot against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorseless
no nooo noooooo noo nooooo noooooooooo, noooooo nooo nooo, noooooooooo

service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight. Too
noooooo noo noooo no no noooo nooo no n nooo noooooooo nooooo. Noo

expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the
noooooooo noo noooo, noooo noooooo N, noooooo noo nooooo no noooo noo

broad glare in the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses
noooo noooo no noo nooooo, noo nooo noo nooooo no noo nooooooo noooooo

within. But go on, Ishmael, said I at last; don't you hear? get away
nooooo. Noo no no, Noooooo, nooo N no nooo; noo'n noo nooo? noo nooo

from before the door; your patched boots are stopping the way. So on I
nooo nooooo noo nooo; nooo noooooo noooo noo nooooooo noo noo. No no N

went. I now by instinct followed the streets that took me waterward, for
nooo. N noo no nooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo nooo nooo no noooooooo, noo

there, doubtless, were the cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.
noooo, noooooooo, nooo noo nooooooo, no noo noo noooooooo nooo.




Such dreary streets! blocks of blackness, not houses, on either hand,
Nooo nooooo noooooo! nooooo no noooooooo, noo nooooo, no nooooo nooo,

and here and there a candle, like a candle moving about in a tomb. At
noo nooo noo noooo n nooooo, nooo n nooooo nooooo noooo no n nooo. No

this hour of the night, of the last day of the week, that quarter of
nooo nooo no noo noooo, no noo nooo noo no noo nooo, nooo noooooo no

the town proved all but deserted. But presently I came to a smoky light
noo nooo nooooo noo noo nooooooo. Noo noooooooo N nooo no n noooo noooo

proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which stood invitingly
nooooooooo nooo n noo, nooo nooooooo, noo nooo no noooo noooo nooooooooo

open. It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the uses of the
nooo. No noo n nooooooo nooo, no no no nooo noooo noo noo nooo no noo

public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over an
nooooo; no, nooooooo, noo noooo noooo N noo noo no noooooo nooo no

ash-box in the porch. Ha! thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost
noo-noo no noo noooo. No! noooooo N, no, no noo nooooo noooooooo nooooo

choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah? But "The
nooooo no, noo noooo noooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooo, Nooooooo? Noo "Noo

Crossed Harpoons," and "The Sword-Fish?"--this, then must needs be the
Noooooo Nooooooo," noo "Noo Noooo-Nooo?"--nooo, nooo nooo noooo no noo

sign of "The Trap." However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice
nooo no "Noo Nooo." Noooooo, N nooooo nooooo no noo noooooo n nooo noooo

within, pushed on and opened a second, interior door.
nooooo, nooooo no noo nooooo n nooooo, nooooooo nooo.




It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. A hundred black
No nooooo noo noooo Noooo Nooooooooo noooooo no Nooooo. N noooooo noooo

faces turned round in their rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel
noooo nooooo noooo no noooo nooo no nooo; noo nooooo, n noooo Noooo

of Doom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and the
no Nooo noo noooooo n nooo no n nooooo. No noo n noooo nooooo; noo noo

preacher's text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping and
nooooooo'n nooo noo noooo noo noooooooo no nooooooo, noo noo noooooo noo

wailing and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing out,
noooooo noo noooo-nooooooo noooo. No, Noooooo, nooooooo N, noooooo noo,

Wretched entertainment at the sign of 'The Trap!'
Nooooooo noooooooooooo no noo nooo no 'Noo Nooo!'




Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the docks,
Nooooo no, N no nooo nooo no n noo nooo no noooo noo noo nooo noo noooo,

and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up, saw a swinging
noo noooo n noooooo nooooooo no noo noo; noo noooooo no, noo n nooooooo

sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly representing
nooo nooo noo nooo nooo n noooo nooooooo nooo no, noooooo nooooooooooo

a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words underneath--"The
n nooo nooooooo noo no noooo noooo, noo noooo noooo nooooooooo--"Noo

Spouter Inn:--Peter Coffin."
Noooooo Noo:--Noooo Nooooo."




Coffin?--Spouter?--Rather ominous in that particular connexion, thought
Nooooo?--Noooooo?--Nooooo noooooo no nooo nooooooooo noooooooo, noooooo

I. But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this
N. Noo no no n nooooo nooo no Noooooooo, nooo noo, noo N noooooo nooo

Peter here is an emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and
Noooo nooo no no nooooooo nooo noooo. No noo noooo nooooo no noo, noo

the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidated little
noo noooo, noo noo nooo, nooooo noooo nooooo, noo noo noooooooooo nooooo

wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from
nooooo noooo nooooo nooooo no no no noooo nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo

the ruins of some burnt district, and as the swinging sign had a
noo noooo no nooo noooo nooooooo, noo no noo nooooooo nooo noo n

poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here was the very
noooooo-nooooooo nooo no noooo no no, N noooooo nooo nooo noo noo nooo

spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.
nooo noo noooo nooooooo, noo noo nooo no noo nooooo.




It was a queer sort of place--a gable-ended old house, one side palsied
No noo n noooo nooo no noooo--n noooo-noooo noo noooo, noo nooo noooooo

as it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner,
no no nooo, noo noooooo nooo noooo. No noooo no n noooo noooo nooooo,

where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever
noooo nooo noooooooooo nooo Nooooooooo nooo no n noooo noooooo nooo nooo

it did about poor Paul's tossed craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a
no noo noooo nooo Nooo'n nooooo noooo. Nooooooooo, nooooooooooo, no n

mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the hob
nooooo nooooooo nooooo no noo noo no-noooo, nooo noo nooo no noo noo

quietly toasting for bed. "In judging of that tempestuous wind called
noooooo nooooooo noo noo. "No noooooo no nooo noooooooooo nooo nooooo

Euroclydon," says an old writer--of whose works I possess the only copy
Nooooooooo," nooo no noo nooooo--no noooo noooo N noooooo noo nooo nooo

extant--"it maketh a marvellous difference, whether thou lookest out at
nooooo--"no nooooo n nooooooooo nooooooooo, noooooo nooo noooooo noo no

it from a glass window where the frost is all on the outside, or whether
no nooo n noooo nooooo noooo noo noooo no noo no noo noooooo, no noooooo

thou observest it from that sashless window, where the frost is on both
nooo noooooooo no nooo nooo nooooooo nooooo, noooo noo noooo no no nooo

sides, and of which the wight Death is the only glazier." True enough,
noooo, noo no noooo noo noooo Noooo no noo nooo noooooo." Nooo nooooo,

thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind--old black-letter, thou
noooooo N, no nooo noooooo nooooooo no no nooo--noo noooo-nooooo, nooo

reasonest well. Yes, these eyes are windows, and this body of mine is
noooooooo nooo. Noo, noooo nooo noo noooooo, noo nooo nooo no nooo no

the house. What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the crannies
noo noooo. Nooo n nooo nooo nooo'n nooo no noo nooooo noo noo nooooooo

though, and thrust in a little lint here and there. But it's too late
nooooo, noo nooooo no n nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo. Noo no'n noo nooo

to make any improvements now. The universe is finished; the copestone
no nooo noo nooooooooooo noo. Noo nooooooo no nooooooo; noo noooooooo

is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago. Poor Lazarus
no no, noo noo noooo nooo nooooo noo n noooooo noooo noo. Nooo Noooooo

there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and
noooo, nooooooooo noo noooo noooooo noo noooooooo noo noo nooooo, noo

shaking off his tatters with his shiverings, he might plug up both ears
noooooo noo noo noooooo nooo noo nooooooooo, no noooo nooo no nooo nooo

with rags, and put a corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not
nooo nooo, noo noo n nooo-noo nooo noo noooo, noo noo nooo noooo noo

keep out the tempestuous Euroclydon. Euroclydon! says old Dives, in his
nooo noo noo noooooooooo Nooooooooo. Nooooooooo! nooo noo Noooo, no noo

red silken wrapper--(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh! What
noo nooooo noooooo--(no noo n nooooo noo nooooooooo) nooo, nooo! Nooo

a fine frosty night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights! Let them
n nooo nooooo noooo; noo Noooo nooooooo; nooo nooooooo nooooo! Noo nooo

talk of their oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give
nooo no noooo nooooooo nooooo nooooo no noooooooooo nooooooooooooo; nooo

me the privilege of making my own summer with my own coals.
no noo noooooooo no nooooo no noo nooooo nooo no noo noooo.




But what thinks Lazarus? Can he warm his blue hands by holding them up
Noo nooo nooooo Noooooo? Noo no nooo noo nooo noooo no noooooo nooo no

to the grand northern lights? Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra
no noo noooo nooooooo nooooo? Noooo noo Noooooo nooooo no no Noooooo

than here? Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along the
nooo nooo? Noooo no noo noo nooooo noo noo nooo nooooooooo noooo noo

line of the equator; yea, ye gods! go down to the fiery pit itself, in
nooo no noo noooooo; noo, no nooo! no nooo no noo noooo noo nooooo, no

order to keep out this frost?
noooo no nooo noo nooo noooo?




Now, that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the
Noo, nooo Noooooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo no noo noooooooo nooooo noo

door of Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be
nooo no Noooo, nooo no nooo noooooooo nooo nooo no noooooo nooooo no

moored to one of the Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a
nooooo no noo no noo Nooooooo. Noo Noooo noooooo, no noo noooo nooo n

Czar in an ice palace made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a
Nooo no no noo nooooo nooo no nooooo noooo, noo noooo n noooooooo no n

temperance society, he only drinks the tepid tears of orphans.
nooooooooo noooooo, no nooo nooooo noo noooo noooo no noooooo.




But no more of this blubbering now, we are going a-whaling, and there is
Noo no nooo no nooo nooooooooo noo, no noo noooo n-noooooo, noo noooo no

plenty of that yet to come. Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet,
nooooo no nooo noo no nooo. Noo no nooooo noo noo nooo noo noooooo nooo,

and see what sort of a place this "Spouter" may be.
noo noo nooo nooo no n noooo nooo "Noooooo" noo no.










CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.
NOOOOOO n. Noo Noooooo-Noo.







Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn, you found yourself in a wide,
Nooooooo nooo noooo-noooo Noooooo-Noo, noo noooo nooooooo no n nooo,

low, straggling entry with old-fashioned wainscots, reminding one of
noo, nooooooooo noooo nooo noo-noooooooo noooooooo, noooooooo noo no

the bulwarks of some condemned old craft. On one side hung a very large
noo nooooooo no nooo noooooooo noo noooo. No noo nooo nooo n nooo noooo

oilpainting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, that in the
noooooooooo no nooooooooo nooooooo, noo noooo noo noooooo, nooo no noo

unequal crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligent
noooooo noooooooooo no noooo noo nooooo no, no noo nooo no nooooooo

study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry of
noooo noo n nooooo no nooooooooo nooooo no no, noo noooooo noooooo no

the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its
noo noooooooo, nooo noo noooo noo noo nooooo no no noooooooooooo no noo

purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first
noooooo. Nooo noooooooooooo nooooo no nooooo noo noooooo, nooo no noooo

you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
noo nooooo noooooo nooo noooooooo noooo nooooo, no noo nooo no noo Noo

England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint
Noooooo nooo, noo nooooooooo no noooooooo noooo noooooooo. Noo no nooo

of much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and
no nooo noo noooooo noooooooooooo, noo noo nooooooo nooooooooo, noo

especially by throwing open the little window towards the back of the
nooooooooo no nooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo noooooo noo nooo no noo

entry, you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, however
noooo, noo no nooo nooo no noo nooooooooo nooo nooo no nooo, noooooo

wild, might not be altogether unwarranted.
nooo, noooo noo no nooooooooo noooooooooo.




But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber, portentous,
Noo nooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooooo noo noo n nooo, nooooo, nooooooooo,

black mass of something hovering in the centre of the picture over three
noooo nooo no noooooooo nooooooo no noo nooooo no noo noooooo nooo noooo

blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a nameless yeast. A boggy,
nooo, noo, noooooooooooo noooo nooooooo no n nooooooo noooo. N noooo,

soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous man distracted.
noooo, nooooooo noooooo noooo, nooooo no noooo n noooooo noo nooooooooo.

Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained, unimaginable
Noo noo noooo n nooo no nooooooooo, nooo-nooooooo, nooooooooooo

sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you involuntarily
noooooooo noooo no nooo nooooo noooo noo no no, nooo noo noooooooooooo

took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous painting
nooo no nooo nooo nooooooo no nooo noo nooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo

meant. Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart you
noooo. Nooo noo nooo n nooooo, noo, nooo, noooooooo nooo noooo nooo noo

through.--It's the Black Sea in a midnight gale.--It's the unnatural
noooooo.--No'n noo Noooo Noo no n nooooooo nooo.--No'n noo noooooooo

combat of the four primal elements.--It's a blasted heath.--It's a
nooooo no noo nooo nooooo nooooooo.--No'n n noooooo noooo.--No'n n

Hyperborean winter scene.--It's the breaking-up of the icebound stream
Noooooooooo nooooo noooo.--No'n noo nooooooo-no no noo nooooooo nooooo

of Time. But at last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous
no Nooo. Noo no nooo noo noooo noooooo noooooo no nooo noo nooooooooo

something in the picture's midst. THAT once found out, and all the rest
noooooooo no noo noooooo'n noooo. NOOO nooo noooo noo, noo noo noo nooo

were plain. But stop; does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic
nooo noooo. Noo nooo; nooo no noo nooo n noooo noooooooooo no n nooooooo

fish? even the great leviathan himself?
nooo? nooo noo noooo noooooooo noooooo?




In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory of my own,
No nooo, noo nooooo'n nooooo nooooo nooo: n noooo nooooo no no noo,

partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with whom
nooooo noooo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooo noooooo nooo nooo

I conversed upon the subject. The picture represents a Cape-Horner in a
N noooooooo nooo noo noooooo. Noo noooooo nooooooooo n Nooo-Nooooo no n

great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three
noooo noooooooo; noo nooo-noooooooo nooo noooooooo noooo nooo noo noooo

dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to
nooooooooo noooo noooo noooooo; noo no noooooooooo noooo, noooooooo no

spring clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself
nooooo noooo nooo noo noooo, no no noo nooooooo noo no nooooooo noooooo

upon the three mast-heads.
nooo noo noooo nooo-noooo.




The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heathenish
Noo nooooooo nooo no nooo noooo noo nooo noo nooo nooo n nooooooooo

array of monstrous clubs and spears. Some were thickly set with
noooo no noooooooo noooo noo nooooo. Nooo nooo noooooo noo nooo

glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of
nooooooooo noooo nooooooooo noooo nooo; nooooo nooo nooooo nooo noooo no

human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round
noooo nooo; noo noo noo nooooo-nooooo, nooo n nooo nooooo nooooooo noooo

like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower. You
nooo noo noooooo nooo no noo noo-nooo noooo no n nooo-noooo noooo. Noo

shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage
noooooooo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo noo nooooo

could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying
noooo nooo nooo nooo n noooo-nooooooooo nooo nooo n noooooo, nooooooooo

implement. Mixed with these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons
noooooooo. Noooo nooo noooo nooo noooo noo noooooo nooooo noo nooooooo

all broken and deformed. Some were storied weapons. With this once long
noo nooooo noo nooooooo. Nooo nooo noooooo noooooo. Nooo nooo nooo nooo

lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen
noooo, noo nooooo noooooo, noooo noooo noo noo Nooooo Noooo nooo noooooo

whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And that harpoon--so like a
nooooo noooooo n noooooo noo n nooooo. Noo nooo noooooo--no nooo n

corkscrew now--was flung in Javan seas, and run away with by a whale,
noooooooo noo--noo noooo no Noooo nooo, noo noo nooo nooo no n noooo,

years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco. The original iron entered
noooo nooooooooo noooo noo noo Nooo no Nooooo. Noo nooooooo nooo noooooo

nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a
nooo noo nooo, noo, nooo n nooooooo nooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo no n

man, travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the
noo, noooooooo nooo noooo nooo, noo no nooo noo noooo nooooooo no noo

hump.
nooo.




Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way--cut
Nooooooo nooo noooo noooo, noo no noooooo noo noo-nooooo noo--noo

through what in old times must have been a great central chimney with
noooooo nooo no noo noooo nooo nooo nooo n noooo noooooo noooooo nooo

fireplaces all round--you enter the public room. A still duskier place
nooooooooo noo noooo--noo noooo noo nooooo nooo. N noooo noooooo noooo

is this, with such low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled
no nooo, nooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo noooo, noo nooo noo nooooooo

planks beneath, that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft's
nooooo noooooo, nooo noo noooo nooooo noooo noo nooo nooo noo noooo'n

cockpits, especially of such a howling night, when this corner-anchored
nooooooo, nooooooooo no nooo n noooooo noooo, nooo nooo nooooo-nooooooo

old ark rocked so furiously. On one side stood a long, low, shelf-like
noo noo nooooo no noooooooo. No noo nooo noooo n nooo, noo, noooo-nooo

table covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty rarities
noooo noooooo nooo noooooo noooo noooo, nooooo nooo noooo nooooooo

gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks. Projecting from the
nooooooo nooo nooo nooo noooo'n nooooooo noooo. Nooooooooo nooo noo

further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den--the bar--a rude
noooooo noooo no noo nooo nooooo n nooo-noooooo noo--noo noo--n nooo

attempt at a right whale's head. Be that how it may, there stands the
noooooo no n noooo noooo'n nooo. No nooo noo no noo, noooo nooooo noo

vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might almost drive
nooo nooooo nooo no noo noooo'n noo, no nooo, n noooo noooo nooooo noooo

beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old decanters,
noooooo no. Nooooo noo nooooo noooooo, nooooo noooo nooo noo noooooooo,

bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like another
noooooo, nooooo; noo no noooo nooo no noooo noooooooooo, nooo noooooo

cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a little
nooooo Noooo (no noooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo noo), noooooo n nooooo

withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
nooooooo noo noo, noo, noo noooo noooo, nooooo noooo noo noooooo

deliriums and death.
noooooooo noo noooo.




Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though
Nooooooooo noo noo nooooooo nooo noooo no noooo noo nooooo. Nooooo

true cylinders without--within, the villanous green goggling glasses
nooo noooooooo noooooo--nooooo, noo noooooooo noooo nooooooo noooooo

deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians
noooooooooo noooooo noooooooo no n nooooooo nooooo. Nooooooo noooooooo

rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets. Fill to
nooooo nooooo nooo noo noooo, nooooooo noooo nooooooo' noooooo. Nooo no

THIS mark, and your charge is but a penny; to THIS a penny more; and so
NOOO nooo, noo nooo nooooo no noo n noooo; no NOOO n noooo nooo; noo no

on to the full glass--the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down for
no no noo nooo noooo--noo Nooo Nooo noooooo, noooo noo noo nooo nooo noo

a shilling.
n nooooooo.




Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered about
Nooo nooooooo noo noooo N noooo n nooooo no noooo nooooo nooooooo noooo

a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of SKRIMSHANDER. I
n noooo, noooooooo no n noo noooo nooooo noooooooo no NOOOOOOOOOOO. N

sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with a
nooooo noo nooooooo, noo noooooo noo N noooooo no no nooooooooooo nooo n

room, received for answer that his house was full--not a bed unoccupied.
nooo, nooooooo noo nooooo nooo noo noooo noo nooo--noo n noo nooooooooo.

"But avast," he added, tapping his forehead, "you haint no objections
"Noo noooo," no noooo, noooooo noo nooooooo, "noo noooo no nooooooooo

to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye? I s'pose you are goin'
no noooooo n nooooooooo'n noooooo, nooo no? N n'nooo noo noo nooo'

a-whalin', so you'd better get used to that sort of thing."
n-nooooo', no noo'n nooooo noo nooo no nooo nooo no noooo."




I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should
N nooo noo nooo N noooo noooo no noooo noo no n noo; nooo no N nooooo

ever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and
nooo no no, no noooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooooooooo noooo no, noo

that if he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the
nooo no no (noo nooooooo) nooooo noo no noooo noooo noo no, noo noo

harpooneer was not decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander
nooooooooo noo noo noooooooo noooooooooooo, noo nooooo nooo nooooo

further about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up with
noooooo noooo n noooooo nooo no no nooooo n noooo, N noooo noo no nooo

the half of any decent man's blanket.
noo nooo no noo nooooo noo'n noooooo.




"I thought so. All right; take a seat. Supper?--you want supper?
"N noooooo no. Noo noooo; nooo n nooo. Nooooo?--noo nooo nooooo?

Supper'll be ready directly."
Nooooo'no no noooo nooooooo."




I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on the
N noo nooo no no noo nooooo nooooo, nooooo noo nooo nooo n noooo no noo

Battery. At one end a ruminating tar was still further adorning it with
Noooooo. No noo noo n nooooooooo noo noo noooo noooooo nooooooo no nooo

his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the space
noo nooo-noooo, nooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo noooooo nooo no noo noooo

between his legs. He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, but
noooooo noo nooo. No noo nooooo noo nooo no n nooo noooo nooo nooo, noo

he didn't make much headway, I thought.
no nooo'n nooo nooo noooooo, N noooooo.




At last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an
No nooo nooo nooo no nooo no no nooo nooooooo no noo nooo no no

adjoining room. It was cold as Iceland--no fire at all--the landlord
noooooooo nooo. No noo nooo no Noooooo--no nooo no noo--noo nooooooo

said he couldn't afford it. Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each
nooo no nooooo'n nooooo no. Noooooo noo noo nooooo nooooo noooooo, nooo

in a winding sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and
no n noooooo noooo. No nooo nooo no nooooo no noo nooooo noooooo, noo

hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers. But
nooo no noo nooo nooo no nooooooo noo nooo noo nooo nooooo noooooo. Noo

the fare was of the most substantial kind--not only meat and potatoes,
noo nooo noo no noo nooo noooooooooo nooo--noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo,

but dumplings; good heavens! dumplings for supper! One young fellow in
noo noooooooo; nooo noooooo! noooooooo noo nooooo! Noo noooo nooooo no

a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in a most direful
n noooo noo nooo, noooooooo noooooo no noooo noooooooo no n nooo noooooo

manner.
nooooo.




"My boy," said the landlord, "you'll have the nightmare to a dead
"No noo," nooo noo nooooooo, "noo'no nooo noo noooooooo no n nooo

sartainty."
noooooooo."




"Landlord," I whispered, "that aint the harpooneer is it?"
"Nooooooo," N noooooooo, "nooo nooo noo nooooooooo no no?"




"Oh, no," said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, "the harpooneer
"No, no," nooo no, noooooo n nooo no nooooooooooo noooo, "noo nooooooooo

is a dark complexioned chap. He never eats dumplings, he don't--he eats
no n nooo nooooooooooo nooo. No noooo nooo noooooooo, no noo'n--no nooo

nothing but steaks, and he likes 'em rare."
noooooo noo nooooo, noo no noooo 'no nooo."




"The devil he does," says I. "Where is that harpooneer? Is he here?"
"Noo noooo no nooo," nooo N. "Noooo no nooo nooooooooo? No no nooo?"




"He'll be here afore long," was the answer.
"No'no no nooo noooo nooo," noo noo nooooo.




I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this "dark
N noooo noo nooo no, noo N noooo no nooo nooooooooo no nooo "nooo

complexioned" harpooneer. At any rate, I made up my mind that if it so
nooooooooooo" nooooooooo. No noo nooo, N nooo no no nooo nooo no no no

turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into
nooooo noo nooo no nooooo noooo nooooooo, no nooo noooooo noo noo nooo

bed before I did.
noo nooooo N noo.




Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not
Nooooo nooo, noo noooooo nooo nooo no noo noo-nooo, nooo, noooooo noo

what else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening
nooo nooo no no nooo nooooo, N nooooooo no noooo noo nooo no noo noooooo

as a looker on.
no n nooooo no.




Presently a rioting noise was heard without. Starting up, the landlord
Noooooooo n noooooo noooo noo noooo noooooo. Nooooooo no, noo nooooooo

cried, "That's the Grampus's crew. I seed her reported in the offing
noooo, "Nooo'n noo Noooooo'n nooo. N nooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooo

this morning; a three years' voyage, and a full ship. Hurrah, boys; now
nooo noooooo; n noooo noooo' nooooo, noo n nooo nooo. Nooooo, nooo; noo

we'll have the latest news from the Feegees."
no'no nooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noo Noooooo."




A tramping of sea boots was heard in the entry; the door was flung open,
N nooooooo no noo noooo noo noooo no noo noooo; noo nooo noo noooo nooo,

and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough. Enveloped in their shaggy
noo no nooooo n nooo noo no nooooooo nooooo. Noooooooo no noooo nooooo

watch coats, and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters, all
noooo noooo, noo nooo noooo noooo noooooo no noooooo nooooooooo, noo

bedarned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an
nooooooo noo nooooo, noo noooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooo, nooo nooooo no

eruption of bears from Labrador. They had just landed from their boat,
nooooooo no noooo nooo Nooooooo. Nooo noo nooo nooooo nooo noooo nooo,

and this was the first house they entered. No wonder, then, that they
noo nooo noo noo noooo noooo nooo noooooo. No nooooo, nooo, nooo nooo

made a straight wake for the whale's mouth--the bar--when the wrinkled
nooo n nooooooo nooo noo noo noooo'n noooo--noo noo--nooo noo nooooooo

little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them out brimmers all
nooooo noo Noooo, noooo noooooooooo, nooo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo noo

round. One complained of a bad cold in his head, upon which Jonah
noooo. Noo nooooooooo no n noo nooo no noo nooo, nooo noooo Noooo

mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he swore was a
noooo noo n noooo-nooo nooooo no noo noo nooooooo, noooo no noooo noo n

sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never mind of how
noooooooo nooo noo noo noooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo, noooo nooo no noo

long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or on the
nooo nooooooo, no noooooo nooooo noo noo noooo no Nooooooo, no no noo

weather side of an ice-island.
noooooo nooo no no noo-nooooo.




The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does even
Noo nooooo nooo noooooo nooo noooo noooo, no no noooooooo nooo nooo

with the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they began capering
nooo noo noooooooo nooooo noooo nooooo nooo noo, noo nooo noooo nooooooo

about most obstreperously.
noooo nooo nooooooooooooo.




I observed, however, that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though
N nooooooo, noooooo, nooo noo no nooo nooo nooooooo noooo, noo nooooo

he seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own
no nooooo nooooooo noo no noooo noo nooooooo no noo noooooooo no noo noo

sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as much noise
noooo nooo, noo nooo noo noooo no noooooooo nooo nooooo no nooo noooo

as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since the sea-gods
no noo nooo. Nooo noo nooooooooo no no nooo; noo noooo noo noo-nooo

had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (though but a
noo nooooooo nooo no nooooo nooo nooooo no nooooooo (nooooo noo n

sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), I will
nooooooo-noooooo noo, no noo no nooo noooooooo no noooooooo), N nooo

here venture upon a little description of him. He stood full six feet
nooo noooooo nooo n nooooo noooooooooo no noo. No noooo nooo noo nooo

in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I have
no nooooo, nooo noooo noooooooo, noo n noooo nooo n nooooo-noo. N nooo

seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown and burnt,
nooooo nooo nooo noooo no n noo. Noo nooo noo nooooo noooo noo noooo,

making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the deep
nooooo noo noooo noooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo; noooo no noo nooo

shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to give
noooooo no noo nooo noooooo nooo noooooooooooo nooo noo noo nooo no nooo

him much joy. His voice at once announced that he was a Southerner,
noo nooo noo. Noo noooo no nooo noooooooo nooo no noo n Nooooooooo,

and from his fine stature, I thought he must be one of those tall
noo nooo noo nooo noooooo, N noooooo no nooo no noo no noooo nooo

mountaineers from the Alleghanian Ridge in Virginia. When the revelry
nooooooooooo nooo noo Noooooooooo Noooo no Nooooooo. Nooo noo noooooo

of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped away
no noo nooooooooo noo noooooo no noo nooooo, nooo noo noooooo nooo

unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the
nooooooooo, noo N noo no nooo no noo nooo no nooooo no noooooo no noo

sea. In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and
noo. No n noo noooooo, noooooo, no noo nooooo no noo noooooooo, noo

being, it seems, for some reason a huge favourite with them, they raised
noooo, no noooo, noo nooo nooooo n nooo noooooooo nooo nooo, nooo nooooo

a cry of "Bulkington! Bulkington! where's Bulkington?" and darted out of
n noo no "Nooooooooo! Nooooooooo! noooo'n Nooooooooo?" noo nooooo noo no

the house in pursuit of him.
noo noooo no noooooo no noo.




It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost
No noo noo noooo nooo n'noooo, noo noo nooo noooooo nooooo

supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself
nooooooooooooo noooo noooo noooo nooooo, N noooo no nooooooooooo nooooo

upon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance
nooo n nooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo no no nooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo

of the seamen.
no noo nooooo.




No man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you would a good deal
No noo noooooo no noooo noo no n noo. No nooo, noo noooo n nooo nooo

rather not sleep with your own brother. I don't know how it is, but
nooooo noo noooo nooo nooo noo noooooo. N noo'n nooo noo no no, noo

people like to be private when they are sleeping. And when it comes to
nooooo nooo no no noooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo. Noo nooo no noooo no

sleeping with an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange
nooooooo nooo no noooooo nooooooo, no n noooooo noo, no n noooooo

town, and that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely
nooo, noo nooo nooooooo n nooooooooo, nooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooooooo

multiply. Nor was there any earthly reason why I as a sailor should
nooooooo. Noo noo noooo noo noooooo nooooo noo N no n nooooo nooooo

sleep two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep
noooo noo no n noo, nooo nooo noooooo nooo; noo noooooo no nooo noooo

two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do ashore. To be sure they
noo no n noo no noo, nooo nooooooo Noooo no nooooo. No no nooo nooo

all sleep together in one apartment, but you have your own hammock, and
noo noooo nooooooo no noo noooooooo, noo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo, noo

cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your own skin.
noooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo noooooo, noo noooo no nooo noo nooo.




The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated the
Noo nooo N nooooooo nooo nooo nooooooooo, noo nooo N nooooooooo noo

thought of sleeping with him. It was fair to presume that being a
noooooo no nooooooo nooo noo. No noo nooo no noooooo nooo noooo n

harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of
nooooooooo, noo noooo no noooooo, no noo nooo noooo no, noooo noo no no

the tidiest, certainly none of the finest. I began to twitch all over.
noo noooooo, noooooooo nooo no noo nooooo. N noooo no nooooo noo nooo.

Besides, it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be
Noooooo, no noo noooooo nooo, noo no nooooo nooooooooo noooo no no

home and going bedwards. Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at
nooo noo noooo nooooooo. Noooooo noo, no nooooo nooooo no nooo no no

midnight--how could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming?
nooooooo--noo noooo N nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo?




"Landlord! I've changed my mind about that harpooneer.--I shan't sleep
"Nooooooo! N'no noooooo no nooo noooo nooo nooooooooo.--N nooo'n noooo

with him. I'll try the bench here."
nooo noo. N'no noo noo noooo nooo."




"Just as you please; I'm sorry I cant spare ye a tablecloth for a
"Nooo no noo nooooo; N'n noooo N nooo noooo no n nooooooooo noo n

mattress, and it's a plaguy rough board here"--feeling of the knots and
nooooooo, noo no'n n nooooo noooo noooo nooo"--noooooo no noo noooo noo

notches. "But wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've got a carpenter's plane
noooooo. "Noo nooo n noo, Nooooooooooo; N'no noo n noooooooo'n noooo

there in the bar--wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug enough." So saying
noooo no noo noo--nooo, N noo, noo N'no nooo no nooo nooooo." No nooooo

he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dusting
no nooooooo noo noooo; noo nooo noo noo nooo nooooooooooo noooo noooooo

the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while grinning
noo noooo, nooooooooo noo no noooooo nooo no no noo, noo noooo nooooooo

like an ape. The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
nooo no noo. Noo nooooooo nooo noooo noo nooo; nooo no nooo noo

plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The landlord was
noooo-nooo nooo nooo noooooo no nooooooooooooo nooo. Noo nooooooo noo

near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit--the
nooo noooooooo noo noooo, noo N nooo noo noo nooooo'n nooo no nooo--noo

bed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing
noo noo nooo nooooo no nooo no, noo N noo noo nooo noo noo noo noooooo

in the world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering up the
no noo noooo noooo nooo noooo nooo no n nooo noooo. No noooooooo no noo

shavings with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in
nooooooo nooo noooooo nooo, noo nooooooo nooo nooo noo noooo noooo no

the middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in a
noo nooooo no noo nooo, no nooo noooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo no no n

brown study.
noooo noooo.




I now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too
N noo nooo noo noooooo no noo noooo, noo noooo nooo no noo n nooo noo

short; but that could be mended with a chair. But it was a foot too
noooo; noo nooo noooo no nooooo nooo n noooo. Noo no noo n nooo noo

narrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher
nooooo, noo noo noooo noooo no noo nooo noo noooo nooo nooooo nooooo

than the planed one--so there was no yoking them. I then placed the
nooo noo nooooo noo--no noooo noo no nooooo nooo. N nooo nooooo noo

first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall,
noooo noooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooo noooo noooo noooooo noo nooo,

leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But I
noooooo n nooooo nooooooo noooooo, noo no nooo no nooooo nooo no. Noo N

soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from under
nooo noooo nooo noooo nooo nooo n noooooo no nooo noo nooo no nooo noooo

the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all, especially
noo nooo no noo nooooo, nooo nooo nooo noooo noooo no no noo, nooooooooo

as another current from the rickety door met the one from the window,
no noooooo noooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo noo noo noo nooo noo nooooo,

and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the immediate
noo nooo nooooooo nooooo n nooooo no noooo nooooooooo no noo noooooooo

vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.
nooooooo no noo nooo noooo N noo noooooo no noooo noo noooo.




The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal
Noo noooo noooo nooo nooooooooo, noooooo N, noo nooo, nooooo'n N noooo

a march on him--bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be
n noooo no noo--nooo noo nooo nooooo, noo nooo nooo noo noo, noo no no

wakened by the most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but upon
noooooo no noo nooo noooooo noooooooo? No nooooo no noo nooo; noo nooo

second thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what the next
nooooo nooooooo N noooooooo no. Noo noo noooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo

morning, so soon as I popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be
noooooo, no nooo no N nooooo noo no noo nooo, noo nooooooooo noooo no

standing in the entry, all ready to knock me down!
nooooooo no noo noooo, noo noooo no noooo no nooo!




Still, looking round me again, and seeing no possible chance of spending
Noooo, noooooo noooo no noooo, noo nooooo no nooooooo nooooo no nooooooo

a sufferable night unless in some other person's bed, I began to think
n nooooooooo noooo nooooo no nooo noooo nooooo'n noo, N noooo no noooo

that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices against
nooo noooo noo N noooo no nooooooooo noooooooooooo nooooooooo noooooo

this unknown harpooneer. Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be dropping
nooo noooooo nooooooooo. Nooooo N, N'no nooo nooooo; no nooo no nooooooo

in before long. I'll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we may
no nooooo nooo. N'no nooo n nooo nooo no noo nooo, noo noooooo no noo

become jolly good bedfellows after all--there's no telling.
nooooo noooo nooo nooooooooo noooo noo--noooo'n no noooooo.




But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes,
Noo nooooo noo noooo nooooooo nooo nooooo no no nooo, nooo, noo nooooo,

and going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.
noo noooo no noo, noo no nooo no no nooooooooo.




"Landlord!" said I, "what sort of a chap is he--does he always keep such
"Nooooooo!" nooo N, "nooo nooo no n nooo no no--nooo no nooooo nooo nooo

late hours?" It was now hard upon twelve o'clock.
nooo noooo?" No noo noo nooo nooo nooooo n'noooo.




The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to
Noo nooooooo nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo noooooo, noo nooooo no

be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension. "No," he
no nooooooo noooooo no noooooooo nooooo no noooooooooooo. "No," no

answered, "generally he's an early bird--airley to bed and airley to
nooooooo, "noooooooo no'n no noooo nooo--nooooo no noo noo nooooo no

rise--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm. But to-night he went out
nooo--noo, no'n noo nooo nooo noooooo noo nooo. Noo no-noooo no nooo noo

a peddling, you see, and I don't see what on airth keeps him so late,
n nooooooo, noo noo, noo N noo'n noo nooo no noooo noooo noo no nooo,

unless, may be, he can't sell his head."
nooooo, noo no, no noo'n nooo noo nooo."




"Can't sell his head?--What sort of a bamboozingly story is this you
"Noo'n nooo noo nooo?--Nooo nooo no n nooooooooooo noooo no nooo noo

are telling me?" getting into a towering rage. "Do you pretend to say,
noo noooooo no?" noooooo nooo n nooooooo nooo. "No noo noooooo no noo,

landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed Saturday
nooooooo, nooo nooo nooooooooo no nooooooo noooooo nooo noooooo Nooooooo

night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head around this town?"
noooo, no nooooo Nooooo noooooo, no nooooooo noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo?"




"That's precisely it," said the landlord, "and I told him he couldn't
"Nooo'n noooooooo no," nooo noo nooooooo, "noo N nooo noo no nooooo'n

sell it here, the market's overstocked."
nooo no nooo, noo nooooo'n noooooooooo."




"With what?" shouted I.
"Nooo nooo?" noooooo N.




"With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?"
"Nooo noooo no no nooo; noo'n noooo noo nooo noooo no noo noooo?"




"I tell you what it is, landlord," said I quite calmly, "you'd better
"N nooo noo nooo no no, nooooooo," nooo N noooo nooooo, "noo'n nooooo

stop spinning that yarn to me--I'm not green."
nooo nooooooo nooo nooo no no--N'n noo noooo."




"May be not," taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick, "but I
"Noo no noo," nooooo noo n noooo noo noooooooo n noooooooo, "noo N

rayther guess you'll be done BROWN if that ere harpooneer hears you a
noooooo noooo noo'no no nooo NOOOO no nooo noo nooooooooo noooo noo n

slanderin' his head."
noooooooo' noo nooo."




"I'll break it for him," said I, now flying into a passion again at this
"N'no noooo no noo noo," nooo N, noo nooooo nooo n noooooo noooo no nooo

unaccountable farrago of the landlord's.
noooooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo'n.




"It's broke a'ready," said he.
"No'n noooo n'noooo," nooo no.




"Broke," said I--"BROKE, do you mean?"
"Noooo," nooo N--"NOOOO, no noo nooo?"




"Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess."
"Noooooo, noo nooo'n noo nooo nooooo no noo'n nooo no, N noooo."




"Landlord," said I, going up to him as cool as Mt. Hecla in a
"Nooooooo," nooo N, noooo no no noo no nooo no No. Noooo no n

snow-storm--"landlord, stop whittling. You and I must understand one
nooo-noooo--"nooooooo, nooo noooooooo. Noo noo N nooo nooooooooo noo

another, and that too without delay. I come to your house and want a
noooooo, noo nooo noo noooooo noooo. N nooo no nooo noooo noo nooo n

bed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other half
noo; noo nooo no noo noo nooo nooo no nooo n noo; nooo noo noooo nooo

belongs to a certain harpooneer. And about this harpooneer, whom I
noooooo no n noooooo nooooooooo. Noo noooo nooo nooooooooo, nooo N

have not yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying and
nooo noo noo nooo, noo noooooo no noooooo no noo nooo nooooooooo noo

exasperating stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling
nooooooooooo noooooo noooooo no noooo no no no noooooooooooo noooooo

towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow--a sort of connexion,
noooooo noo noo nooo noo nooooo noo no noooooooo--n nooo no noooooooo,

landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest
nooooooo, noooo no no nooooooo noo nooooooooooo noo no noo noooooo

degree. I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this
nooooo. N noo nooooo no noo no noooo noo noo nooo no noo noo nooo nooo

harpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the
nooooooooo no, noo noooooo N noooo no no noo nooooooo nooo no noooo noo

night with him. And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay
noooo nooo noo. Noo no noo noooo noooo, noo nooo no no nooo no no noooo

that story about selling his head, which if true I take to be good
nooo noooo noooo noooooo noo nooo, noooo no nooo N nooo no no nooo

evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I've no idea of sleeping
nooooooo nooo nooo nooooooooo no noooo noo, noo N'no no nooo no nooooooo

with a madman; and you, sir, YOU I mean, landlord, YOU, sir, by trying
nooo n nooooo; noo noo, noo, NOO N nooo, nooooooo, NOO, noo, no nooooo

to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself liable to
no nooooo no no no no noooooooo, noooo noooooo nooooo nooooooo nooooo no

a criminal prosecution."
n nooooooo noooooooooo."




"Wall," said the landlord, fetching a long breath, "that's a purty long
"Nooo," nooo noo nooooooo, nooooooo n nooo nooooo, "nooo'n n noooo nooo

sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then. But be easy, be easy,
nooooo noo n nooo nooo nooo n nooooo noo noo nooo. Noo no nooo, no nooo,

this here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of has just arrived from
nooo nooo nooooooooo N nooo nooo nooooo' noo no noo nooo noooooo nooo

the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New Zealand heads
noo noooo nooo, noooo no nooooo no n noo no 'nooooo Noo Noooooo noooo

(great curios, you know), and he's sold all on 'em but one, and that one
(noooo nooooo, noo nooo), noo no'n nooo noo no 'no noo noo, noo nooo noo

he's trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it would not
no'n nooooo no nooo no-noooo, noooo no-nooooo'n Nooooo, noo no noooo noo

do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin' to
no no no nooooo' noooo noooo noooo noo noooooo nooo noooo no nooo' no

churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was
nooooooo. No nooooo no, nooo Nooooo, noo N noooooo noo nooo no no noo

goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the
nooo' noo no noo nooo nooo nooo noooo nooooo no n nooooo, noo noo noo

airth like a string of inions."
noooo nooo n nooooo no nooooo."




This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showed
Nooo noooooo noooooo no noo noooooooo noooooooooooo noooooo, noo nooooo

that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me--but at
nooo noo nooooooo, noooo noo, noo noo no nooo no noooooo no--noo no

the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a
noo nooo nooo nooo noooo N noooo no n nooooooooo noo nooooo noo no n

Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
Nooooooo noooo noooo nooo noo nooo Noooooo, noooooo no nooo n nooooooo

business as selling the heads of dead idolators?
nooooooo no noooooo noo noooo no nooo noooooooo?




"Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man."
"Nooooo nooo no, nooooooo, nooo nooooooooo no n noooooooo noo."




"He pays reg'lar," was the rejoinder. "But come, it's getting dreadful
"No nooo noo'noo," noo noo noooooooo. "Noo nooo, no'n noooooo nooooooo

late, you had better be turning flukes--it's a nice bed; Sal and me
nooo, noo noo nooooo no noooooo nooooo--no'n n nooo noo; Noo noo no

slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced. There's plenty of room
noooo no nooo noo noo noo noooo no nooo noooooo. Noooo'n nooooo no nooo

for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big bed that. Why,
noo noo no nooo noooo no nooo noo; no'n no nooooooo noo noo nooo. Noo,

afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in the
noooo no nooo no no, Noo nooo no noo noo Noo noo nooooo Nooooo no noo

foot of it. But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, and
nooo no no. Noo N noo n nooooooo noo noooooooo noooo noo noooo, noo

somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
noooooo, Noo noo noooooo no noo noooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooo noo noo.

Arter that, Sal said it wouldn't do. Come along here, I'll give ye a
Noooo nooo, Noo nooo no nooooo'n no. Nooo noooo nooo, N'no nooo no n

glim in a jiffy;" and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards
nooo no n noooo;" noo no nooooo no noooooo n nooooo noo nooo no noooooo

me, offering to lead the way. But I stood irresolute; when looking at a
no, nooooooo no nooo noo noo. Noo N noooo nooooooooo; nooo noooooo no n

clock in the corner, he exclaimed "I vum it's Sunday--you won't see that
noooo no noo nooooo, no noooooooo "N noo no'n Nooooo--noo noo'n noo nooo

harpooneer to-night; he's come to anchor somewhere--come along then; DO
nooooooooo no-noooo; no'n nooo no nooooo noooooooo--nooo noooo nooo; NO

come; WON'T ye come?"
nooo; NOO'N no nooo?"




I considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
N nooooooooo noo nooooo n nooooo, noo nooo no nooooo no nooo, noo N noo

ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough,
noooooo nooo n noooo nooo, nooo no n nooo, noo noooooooo, nooo nooooo,

with a prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers
nooo n nooooooooo noo, nooooo noo nooooo nooooo noo noo nooo noooooooooo

to sleep abreast.
no noooo noooooo.




"There," said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea chest
"Noooo," nooo noo nooooooo, noooooo noo nooooo no n noooo noo noo noooo

that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; "there, make
nooo noo nooooo nooo no n nooo-noooo noo nooooo noooo; "noooo, nooo

yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye." I turned round from
nooooooo noooooooooo noo, noo nooo noooo no no." N nooooo noooo nooo

eyeing the bed, but he had disappeared.
nooooo noo noo, noo no noo noooooooooo.




Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed. Though none of the
Noooooo nooo noo noooooooooo, N noooooo nooo noo noo. Nooooo nooo no noo

most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well. I then glanced
nooo noooooo, no noo noooo noo nooooooo noooooooo nooo. N nooo noooooo

round the room; and besides the bedstead and centre table, could see
noooo noo nooo; noo noooooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo noooo, noooo noo

no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf, the four
no noooo noooooooo noooooooo no noo noooo, noo n nooo noooo, noo nooo

walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale. Of
noooo, noo n noooooo noooooooo nooooooooooo n noo nooooooo n noooo. No

things not properly belonging to the room, there was a hammock lashed
nooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo no noo nooo, noooo noo n noooooo nooooo

up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large seaman's bag,
no, noo nooooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooooo; nooo n noooo nooooo'n noo,

containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a land trunk.
nooooooooo noo nooooooooo'n nooooooo, no noooo no nooo no n nooo noooo.

Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf
Nooooooo, noooo noo n nooooo no nooooooooo nooo nooo noooo no noo noooo

over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed.
nooo noo nooo-noooo, noo n nooo noooooo nooooooo no noo nooo no noo noo.




But what is this on the chest? I took it up, and held it close to the
Noo nooo no nooo no noo noooo? N nooo no no, noo nooo no noooo no noo

light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive
noooo, noo nooo no, noo noooo no, noo noooo noooo noo nooooooo no nooooo

at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it. I can compare it to
no nooo nooooooooooo nooooooooo nooooooooo no. N noo noooooo no no

nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little
noooooo noo n noooo nooo noo, nooooooooo no noo noooo nooo nooooo

tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an
nooooooo nooo noooooooo nooo noo noooooo noooooooo nooooo noooo no

Indian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat,
Nooooo nooooooo. Noooo noo n nooo no nooo no noo nooooo no nooo noo,

as you see the same in South American ponchos. But could it be possible
no noo noo noo nooo no Noooo Nooooooo noooooo. Noo noooo no no nooooooo

that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the
nooo noo noooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooo n nooo noo, noo nooooo noo

streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise? I put it on, to try
noooooo no noo Noooooooo nooo no nooo nooo no noooo? N noo no no, no noo

it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy and
no, noo no noooooo no nooo nooo n nooooo, noooo nooooooooo nooooo noo

thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious harpooneer
noooo, noo N noooooo n nooooo nooo, no nooooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooooo

had been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bit of glass
noo nooo noooooo no no n noooo noo. N nooo no no no no n noo no noooo

stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my life. I tore
noooo noooooo noo nooo, noo N noooo noo nooo n noooo no no nooo. N nooo

myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in the neck.
nooooo noo no no no nooo n noooo nooo N nooo nooooo n nooo no noo nooo.




I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this
N noo nooo no noo nooo no noo noo, noo noooooooo nooooooo noooo nooo

head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat. After thinking some time on
nooo-nooooooo nooooooooo, noo noo nooo noo. Noooo nooooooo nooo nooo no

the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in
noo noo-nooo, N noo no noo nooo noo no nooooo nooooo, noo nooo noooo no

the middle of the room thinking. I then took off my coat, and thought
noo nooooo no noo nooo nooooooo. N nooo nooo noo no nooo, noo noooooo

a little more in my shirt sleeves. But beginning to feel very cold now,
n nooooo nooo no no noooo noooooo. Noo noooooooo no nooo nooo nooo noo,

half undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about
nooo noooooooo no N noo, noo noooooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo noooo

the harpooneer's not coming home at all that night, it being so very
noo nooooooooo'n noo nooooo nooo no noo nooo noooo, no noooo no nooo

late, I made no more ado, but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and
nooo, N nooo no nooo noo, noo nooooo noo no no nooooooooo noo noooo, noo

then blowing out the light tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the
nooo noooooo noo noo noooo noooooo nooo noo, noo noooooooo nooooo no noo

care of heaven.
nooo no nooooo.




Whether that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery,
Noooooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooo nooo nooo-nooo no nooooo nooooooo,

there is no telling, but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep
noooo no no noooooo, noo N nooooo noooo n nooo nooo, noo noooo noo noooo

for a long time. At last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty
noo n nooo nooo. No nooo N nooo noo nooo n noooo nooo, noo noo nooooo

nearly made a good offing towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy
nooooo nooo n nooo nooooo noooooo noo nooo no Noo, nooo N noooo n noooo

footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light come into the room
nooooooo no noo noooooo, noo noo n noooooo no noooo nooo nooo noo nooo

from under the door.
nooo noooo noo nooo.




Lord save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal
Nooo nooo no, nooooo N, nooo nooo no noo nooooooooo, noo nooooooo

head-peddler. But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word
nooo-noooooo. Noo N noo noooooooo noooo, noo nooooooo noo no noo n nooo

till spoken to. Holding a light in one hand, and that identical New
nooo nooooo no. Noooooo n noooo no noo nooo, noo nooo noooooooo Noo

Zealand head in the other, the stranger entered the room, and without
Noooooo nooo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo noooooo noo nooo, noo noooooo

looking towards the bed, placed his candle a good way off from me on the
noooooo noooooo noo noo, nooooo noo nooooo n nooo noo noo nooo no no noo

floor in one corner, and then began working away at the knotted cords
noooo no noo nooooo, noo nooo noooo noooooo nooo no noo noooooo noooo

of the large bag I before spoke of as being in the room. I was all
no noo noooo noo N nooooo noooo no no noooo no noo nooo. N noo noo

eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time while
noooooooo no noo noo nooo, noo no nooo no noooooo noo nooo nooo noooo

employed in unlacing the bag's mouth. This accomplished, however, he
nooooooo no nooooooo noo noo'n noooo. Nooo nooooooooooo, noooooo, no

turned round--when, good heavens! what a sight! Such a face! It was of
nooooo noooo--nooo, nooo noooooo! nooo n noooo! Nooo n nooo! No noo no

a dark, purplish, yellow colour, here and there stuck over with large
n nooo, nooooooo, nooooo nooooo, nooo noo noooo noooo nooo nooo noooo

blackish looking squares. Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible
nooooooo noooooo noooooo. Noo, no'n nooo no N noooooo, no'n n nooooooo

bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is,
noooooooo; no'n nooo no n noooo, noo nooooooooo noo, noo nooo no no,

just from the surgeon. But at that moment he chanced to turn his face
nooo nooo noo noooooo. Noo no nooo nooooo no noooooo no nooo noo nooo

so towards the light, that I plainly saw they could not be
no noooooo noo noooo, nooo N noooooo noo nooo noooo noo no

sticking-plasters at all, those black squares on his cheeks. They were
nooooooo-nooooooo no noo, noooo noooo noooooo no noo nooooo. Nooo nooo

stains of some sort or other. At first I knew not what to make of this;
nooooo no nooo nooo no noooo. No noooo N nooo noo nooo no nooo no nooo;

but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me. I remembered a story of
noo nooo no noooooo no noo noooo nooooooo no no. N nooooooooo n noooo no

a white man--a whaleman too--who, falling among the cannibals, had been
n noooo noo--n nooooooo noo--noo, noooooo noooo noo noooooooo, noo nooo

tattooed by them. I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course of his
nooooooo no nooo. N noooooooo nooo nooo nooooooooo, no noo nooooo no noo

distant voyages, must have met with a similar adventure. And what is it,
noooooo noooooo, nooo nooo noo nooo n noooooo noooooooo. Noo nooo no no,

thought I, after all! It's only his outside; a man can be honest in any
noooooo N, noooo noo! No'n nooo noo noooooo; n noo noo no nooooo no noo

sort of skin. But then, what to make of his unearthly complexion, that
nooo no nooo. Noo nooo, nooo no nooo no noo noooooooo nooooooooo, nooo

part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely independent of the
nooo no no, N nooo, noooo noooo noooo, noo nooooooooo noooooooooo no noo

squares of tattooing. To be sure, it might be nothing but a good coat of
noooooo no noooooooo. No no nooo, no noooo no noooooo noo n nooo nooo no

tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's tanning a white man
nooooooo noooooo; noo N noooo noooo no n noo noo'n noooooo n noooo noo

into a purplish yellow one. However, I had never been in the South Seas;
nooo n nooooooo nooooo noo. Noooooo, N noo noooo nooo no noo Noooo Nooo;

and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary effects upon the
noo noooooo noo noo noooo nooooooo noooo noooooooooooo noooooo nooo noo

skin. Now, while all these ideas were passing through me like lightning,
nooo. Noo, noooo noo noooo noooo nooo noooooo noooooo no nooo noooooooo,

this harpooneer never noticed me at all. But, after some difficulty
nooo nooooooooo noooo noooooo no no noo. Noo, noooo nooo nooooooooo

having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently pulled
nooooo nooooo noo noo, no noooooooo nooooooo no no, noo noooooooo nooooo

out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on. Placing
noo n nooo no nooooooo, noo n nooo-nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo no. Noooooo

these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the New
noooo no noo noo noooo no noo nooooo no noo nooo, no nooo nooo noo Noo

Zealand head--a ghastly thing enough--and crammed it down into the bag.
Noooooo nooo--n noooooo noooo nooooo--noo noooooo no nooo nooo noo noo.

He now took off his hat--a new beaver hat--when I came nigh singing out
No noo nooo noo noo noo--n noo nooooo noo--nooo N nooo nooo noooooo noo

with fresh surprise. There was no hair on his head--none to speak of at
nooo noooo nooooooo. Noooo noo no nooo no noo nooo--nooo no noooo no no

least--nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead. His
noooo--noooooo noo n noooo noooo-nooo noooooo no no noo nooooooo. Noo

bald purplish head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.
nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo noo noo noo noooo nooo n nooooooo noooo.

Had not the stranger stood between me and the door, I would have bolted
Noo noo noo nooooooo noooo noooooo no noo noo nooo, N noooo nooo nooooo

out of it quicker than ever I bolted a dinner.
noo no no noooooo nooo nooo N nooooo n nooooo.




Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, but
Nooo no no noo, N noooooo noooooooo no nooooooo noo no noo nooooo, noo

it was the second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of
no noo noo nooooo noooo nooo. N no no nooooo, noo nooo no nooo no

this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
nooo nooo-nooooooo nooooo nooooo nooooooooo nooooo no noooooooooooo.

Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
Noooooooo no noo nooooo no nooo, noo noooo nooooooooo nooooooooo noo

confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of him
nooooooooo noooo noo nooooooo, N noooooo N noo noo no nooo nooooo no noo

as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at
no no no noo noo noooo noooooo noo noo nooo nooooo nooo no nooo no

the dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not
noo nooo no noooo. No nooo, N noo no nooooo no noo nooo N noo noo

game enough just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer
nooo nooooo nooo nooo no noooooo noo, noo nooooo n nooooooooooo nooooo

concerning what seemed inexplicable in him.
nooooooooo nooo nooooo nooooooooooo no noo.




Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed
Noooooooo, no noooooooo noo nooooooo no nooooooooo, noo no nooo nooooo

his chest and arms. As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered
noo noooo noo nooo. No N nooo, noooo noooooo noooo no noo nooo noooooooo

with the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same
nooo noo nooo noooooo no noo nooo; noo nooo, noo, noo noo nooo noo nooo

dark squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' War, and just
nooo noooooo; no nooooo no nooo nooo no n Nooooo Noooo' Noo, noo nooo

escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt. Still more, his very
noooooo nooo no nooo n nooooooo-noooooo noooo. Noooo nooo, noo nooo

legs were marked, as if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up
nooo nooo nooooo, no no n nooooo no nooo noooo noooo nooo noooooo no

the trunks of young palms. It was now quite plain that he must be some
noo nooooo no noooo noooo. No noo noo noooo noooo nooo no nooo no nooo

abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman in the South
nooooooooo nooooo no noooo noooooo nooooo no n nooooooo no noo Noooo

Seas, and so landed in this Christian country. I quaked to think of it.
Nooo, noo no nooooo no nooo Noooooooo noooooo. N nooooo no noooo no no.

A peddler of heads too--perhaps the heads of his own brothers. He might
N noooooo no noooo noo--noooooo noo noooo no noo noo nooooooo. No noooo

take a fancy to mine--heavens! look at that tomahawk!
nooo n noooo no nooo--noooooo! nooo no nooo nooooooo!




But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
Noo noooo noo no nooo noo nooooooooo, noo noo noo nooooo nooo noooo

something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that
noooooooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooooo no noooooooo, noo noooooooo no nooo

he must indeed be a heathen. Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or
no nooo nooooo no n noooooo. Noooo no noo noooo noooo, no noooooo, no

dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the
noooooooooo, noooo no noo nooooooooo nooo no n noooo, no noooooo no noo

pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with
noooooo, noo nooooooo no nooooo n noooooo nooooo nooooooo noooo nooo

a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days' old Congo
n noooo no noo nooo, noo noooooo noo nooooo no n noooo nooo' noo Noooo

baby. Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that
nooo. Noooooooooo noo nooooooo nooo, no noooo N nooooo noooooo nooo

this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner. But
nooo noooo noooooo noo n nooo nooo noooooooo no nooo noooooo nooooo. Noo

seeing that it was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal
nooooo nooo no noo noo no noo nooooo, noo nooo no noooooooo n nooo nooo

like polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden
nooo nooooooo noooo, N noooooooo nooo no nooo no noooooo noo n nooooo

idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now the savage goes up to the
nooo, noooo nooooo no nooooo no no. Noo noo noo nooooo nooo no no noo

empty fire-place, and removing the papered fire-board, sets up this
noooo nooo-noooo, noo nooooooo noo noooooo nooo-noooo, nooo no nooo

little hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between the andirons. The
nooooo noooo-nooooo noooo, nooo n nooooo, noooooo noo nooooooo. Noo

chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty, so that I
noooooo noooo noo noo noo nooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo, no nooo N

thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel
noooooo nooo nooo-noooo nooo n nooo noooooooooo nooooo nooooo no nooooo

for his Congo idol.
noo noo Noooo nooo.




I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half hidden image, feeling but
N noo noooooo no nooo nooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo noooo, noooooo noo

ill at ease meantime--to see what was next to follow. First he takes
noo no nooo nooooooo--no noo nooo noo nooo no nooooo. Noooo no noooo

about a double handful of shavings out of his grego pocket, and places
noooo n nooooo noooooo no nooooooo noo no noo noooo nooooo, noo nooooo

them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship biscuit on
nooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooo; nooo nooooo n noo no nooo noooooo no

top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings into
noo noo nooooooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo, no noooooo noo nooooooo nooo

a sacrificial blaze. Presently, after many hasty snatches into the fire,
n noooooooooo noooo. Noooooooo, noooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo,

and still hastier withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be
noo noooo noooooo noooooooooo no noo noooooo (noooooo no nooooo no no

scorching them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit;
noooooooo nooo noooo), no no nooo noooooooo no noooooo noo noo noooooo;

then blowing off the heat and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of
nooo noooooo noo noo nooo noo noooo n nooooo, no nooo n nooooo noooo no

it to the little negro. But the little devil did not seem to fancy such
no no noo nooooo noooo. Noo noo nooooo noooo noo noo nooo no noooo nooo

dry sort of fare at all; he never moved his lips. All these strange
noo nooo no nooo no noo; no noooo noooo noo nooo. Noo noooo noooooo

antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from the
nooooo nooo noooooooooo no noooo nooooooo nooooooo nooooo nooo noo

devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or else singing some
noooooo, noo nooooo no no noooooo no n nooo-nooo no nooo noooooo nooo

pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched about in the
noooo nooooooo no noooo, nooooo noooo noo nooo nooooooo noooo no noo

most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire, he took the idol
nooo noooooooo nooooo. No nooo noooooooooooo noo nooo, no nooo noo nooo

up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket as
no nooo noooooooooooooo, noo nooooo no noooo no noo noooo nooooo no

carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.
nooooooooo no no no nooo n noooooooo noooooo n nooo nooooooo.




All these queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and
Noo noooo noooo noooooooooo noooooooo no noooooooooooooooo, noo

seeing him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business
nooooo noo noo nooooooooo nooooo nooooooo no nooooooooo noo nooooooo

operations, and jumping into bed with me, I thought it was high time,
nooooooooo, noo noooooo nooo noo nooo no, N noooooo no noo nooo nooo,

now or never, before the light was put out, to break the spell in which
noo no noooo, nooooo noo noooo noo noo noo, no noooo noo noooo no noooo

I had so long been bound.
N noo no nooo nooo noooo.




But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.
Noo noo nooooooo N noooo no nooooooooooo nooo no noo, noo n noooo noo.

Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an
Nooooo no noo nooooooo nooo noo noooo, no nooooooo noo nooo no no noo no

instant, and then holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle,
noooooo, noo nooo noooooo no no noo noooo, nooo noo noooo no noo nooooo,

he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment the light
no nooooo noo noooo nooooo no noooooo noooo. Noo nooo nooooo noo noooo

was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth,
noo nooooooooooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooo, nooooooo noooooo noo noooo,

sprang into bed with me. I sang out, I could not help it now; and giving
nooooo nooo noo nooo no. N nooo noo, N noooo noo nooo no noo; noo nooooo

a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.
n nooooo noooo no nooooooooooo no noooo noooooo no.




Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away from him
Nooooooooo noo noooooooo, N nooo noo nooo, N nooooo nooo nooo noo

against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
noooooo noo nooo, noo nooo nooooooo noo, noooooo no nooooooo no noooo

be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again. But his
no, no nooo noooo, noo noo no noo no noo noooo noo nooo noooo. Noo noo

guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my
nooooooo noooooooo noooooooo no no nooo nooo no noo noo nooooooooooo no

meaning.
noooooo.




"Who-e debel you?"--he at last said--"you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e."
"Noo-n noooo noo?"--no no nooo nooo--"noo no noooo-n, noo-no, N nooo-n."

And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the
Noo no nooooo noo noooooo nooooooo noooo noooooooooo noooo no no noo

dark.
nooo.




"Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!" shouted I. "Landlord! Watch!
"Nooooooo, noo Noo'n nooo, Noooo Nooooo!" noooooo N. "Nooooooo! Noooo!

Coffin! Angels! save me!"
Nooooo! Nooooo! nooo no!"




"Speak-e! tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e!" again growled the
"Noooo-n! nooo-no no noo-no no, no noo-no, N nooo-n!" noooo noooooo noo

cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the tomahawk scattered the
nooooooo, noooo noo nooooo nooooooooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo noo

hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought my linen would get on fire.
noo noooooo noooo noooo no nooo N noooooo no noooo noooo noo no nooo.

But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord came into the room light
Noo noooo nooooo, no nooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooo noooo

in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
no nooo, noo noooooo nooo noo noo N noo no no noo.




"Don't be afraid now," said he, grinning again, "Queequeg here wouldn't
"Noo'n no nooooo noo," nooo no, nooooooo noooo, "Nooooooo nooo nooooo'n

harm a hair of your head."
nooo n nooo no nooo nooo."




"Stop your grinning," shouted I, "and why didn't you tell me that that
"Nooo nooo nooooooo," noooooo N, "noo noo nooo'n noo nooo no nooo nooo

infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?"
nooooooo nooooooooo noo n nooooooo?"




"I thought ye know'd it;--didn't I tell ye, he was a peddlin' heads
"N noooooo no nooo'n no;--nooo'n N nooo no, no noo n noooooo' noooo

around town?--but turn flukes again and go to sleep. Queequeg, look
nooooo nooo?--noo nooo nooooo noooo noo no no noooo. Nooooooo, nooo

here--you sabbee me, I sabbee--you this man sleepe you--you sabbee?"
nooo--noo nooooo no, N nooooo--noo nooo noo nooooo noo--noo nooooo?"




"Me sabbee plenty"--grunted Queequeg, puffing away at his pipe and
"No nooooo nooooo"--noooooo Nooooooo, noooooo nooo no noo nooo noo

sitting up in bed.
noooooo no no noo.




"You gettee in," he added, motioning to me with his tomahawk, and
"Noo nooooo no," no noooo, noooooooo no no nooo noo nooooooo, noo

throwing the clothes to one side. He really did this in not only a civil
nooooooo noo noooooo no noo nooo. No nooooo noo nooo no noo nooo n noooo

but a really kind and charitable way. I stood looking at him a moment.
noo n nooooo nooo noo nooooooooo noo. N noooo noooooo no noo n nooooo.

For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking
Noo noo noo nooooooooo no noo no noo noooo n noooo, nooooo noooooo

cannibal. What's all this fuss I have been making about, thought I to
nooooooo. Nooo'n noo nooo nooo N nooo nooo nooooo noooo, noooooo N no

myself--the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as much reason
nooooo--noo noo'n n noooo noooo nooo no N no: no noo nooo no nooo nooooo

to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him. Better sleep with a sober
no nooo no, no N nooo no no nooooo no noo. Nooooo noooo nooo n noooo

cannibal than a drunken Christian.
nooooooo nooo n noooooo Noooooooo.




"Landlord," said I, "tell him to stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or
"Nooooooo," nooo N, "nooo noo no noooo noo nooooooo noooo, no nooo, no

whatever you call it; tell him to stop smoking, in short, and I will
nooooooo noo nooo no; nooo noo no nooo noooooo, no noooo, noo N nooo

turn in with him. But I don't fancy having a man smoking in bed with me.
nooo no nooo noo. Noo N noo'n noooo nooooo n noo noooooo no noo nooo no.

It's dangerous. Besides, I ain't insured."
No'n noooooooo. Noooooo, N noo'n noooooo."




This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely
Nooo noooo nooo no Nooooooo, no no nooo nooooooo, noo noooo nooooooo

motioned me to get into bed--rolling over to one side as much as to
nooooooo no no noo nooo noo--noooooo nooo no noo nooo no nooo no no

say--"I won't touch a leg of ye."
noo--"N noo'n noooo n noo no no."




"Good night, landlord," said I, "you may go."
"Nooo noooo, nooooooo," nooo N, "noo noo no."




I turned in, and never slept better in my life.
N nooooo no, noo noooo noooo nooooo no no nooo.










CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane.
NOOOOOO n. Noo Noooooooooo.







Upon waking next morning about daylight, I found Queequeg's arm thrown
Nooo nooooo nooo noooooo noooo nooooooo, N noooo Nooooooo'n noo nooooo

over me in the most loving and affectionate manner. You had almost
nooo no no noo nooo nooooo noo nooooooooooo nooooo. Noo noo nooooo

thought I had been his wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full of
noooooo N noo nooo noo nooo. Noo noooooooooo noo no noooooooo, nooo no

odd little parti-coloured squares and triangles; and this arm of his
noo nooooo noooo-nooooooo noooooo noo noooooooo; noo nooo noo no noo

tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a figure,
nooooooo noo nooo nooo no nooooooooooo Nooooo noooooooo no n nooooo,

no two parts of which were of one precise shade--owing I suppose to
no noo noooo no noooo nooo no noo noooooo noooo--noooo N noooooo no

his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
noo noooooo noo noo no noo nooooooooooooo no noo noo noooo, noo noooo

sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times--this same arm of his, I
noooooo noooooooooo nooooo no no noooooo noooo--nooo nooo noo no noo, N

say, looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.
noo, nooooo noo noo noo noooo nooo n noooo no nooo nooo noooooooo noooo.

Indeed, partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could
Nooooo, nooooo noooo no no no noo noo noo nooo N noooo noooo, N noooo

hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and
nooooo nooo no nooo noo noooo, nooo no noooooo noooo nooo nooooooo; noo

it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that
no noo nooo no noo noooo no nooooo noo nooooooo nooo N noooo nooo nooo

Queequeg was hugging me.
Nooooooo noo noooooo no.




My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain them. When I was a
No nooooooooo nooo noooooo. Noo no noo no noooooo nooo. Nooo N noo n

child, I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me;
noooo, N nooo nooooooo n nooooooo noooooo nooooooooooo nooo nooooo no;

whether it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle.
noooooo no noo n noooooo no n noooo, N noooo noooo nooooooo nooooo.

The circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some caper or other--I
Noo nooooooooooo noo nooo. N noo nooo noooooo no nooo noooo no noooo--N

think it was trying to crawl up the chimney, as I had seen a little
noooo no noo nooooo no noooo no noo noooooo, no N noo nooo n nooooo

sweep do a few days previous; and my stepmother who, somehow or other,
noooo no n noo nooo nooooooo; noo no nooooooooo noo, noooooo no noooo,

was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,--my
noo noo noo nooo nooooooo no, no noooooo no no noo nooooooooo,--no

mother dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me off to
nooooo noooooo no no noo nooo noo no noo noooooo noo nooooo no noo no

bed, though it was only two o'clock in the afternoon of the 21st June,
noo, nooooo no noo nooo noo n'noooo no noo noooooooo no noo nooo Nooo,

the longest day in the year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully. But
noo noooooo noo no noo nooo no noo nooooooooo. N nooo nooooooooo. Noo

there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in the
noooo noo no nooo noo no, no no nooooo N nooo no no nooooo nooo no noo

third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time,
noooo noooo, noooooooo nooooo no nooooo no nooooooo no no no nooo nooo,

and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.
noo nooo n nooooo nooo noo noooooo noo nooooo.




I lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse
N noo noooo nooooooo noooooooooo nooo noooooo nooooo noooo nooo nooooo

before I could hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed! the
nooooo N noooo nooo noo n nooooooooooo. Noooooo noooo no noo! noo

small of my back ached to think of it. And it was so light too; the
noooo no no nooo noooo no noooo no no. Noo no noo no noooo noo; noo

sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the
noo noooooo no no noo nooooo, noo n noooo nooooooo no noooooo no noo

streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house. I felt worse
noooooo, noo noo noooo no noo nooooo noo nooo noo noooo. N nooo noooo

and worse--at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my
noo noooo--no nooo N noo no, noooooo, noo nooooo noooo nooo no no

stockinged feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself
nooooooooo nooo, nooooo noo no nooooooooo, noo nooooooo noooo nooooo

at her feet, beseeching her as a particular favour to give me a good
no noo nooo, nooooooooo noo no n nooooooooo nooooo no nooo no n nooo

slippering for my misbehaviour; anything indeed but condemning me to lie
nooooooooo noo no nooooooooooo; nooooooo nooooo noo nooooooooo no no noo

abed such an unendurable length of time. But she was the best and most
nooo nooo no noooooooooo nooooo no nooo. Noo noo noo noo nooo noo nooo

conscientious of stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room. For
noooooooooooo no noooooooooo, noo nooo N noo no no no no nooo. Noo

several hours I lay there broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than I
noooooo noooo N noo noooo noooo noooo, noooooo n noooo nooo noooo nooo N

have ever done since, even from the greatest subsequent misfortunes. At
nooo nooo nooo noooo, nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo noooooooooo. No

last I must have fallen into a troubled nightmare of a doze; and slowly
nooo N nooo nooo nooooo nooo n nooooooo noooooooo no n nooo; noo nooooo

waking from it--half steeped in dreams--I opened my eyes, and the before
nooooo nooo no--nooo noooooo no nooooo--N nooooo no nooo, noo noo nooooo

sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer darkness. Instantly I felt a shock
noo-noo nooo noo noo noooooo no noooo nooooooo. Noooooooo N nooo n noooo

running through all my frame; nothing was to be seen, and nothing was
noooooo noooooo noo no noooo; noooooo noo no no nooo, noo noooooo noo

to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in mine. My arm hung
no no noooo; noo n nooooooooooo nooo nooooo nooooo no nooo. No noo nooo

over the counterpane, and the nameless, unimaginable, silent form
nooo noo noooooooooo, noo noo nooooooo, nooooooooooo, nooooo nooo

or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed closely seated by my
no noooooo, no noooo noo nooo nooooooo, nooooo noooooo nooooo no no

bed-side. For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay there, frozen with
noo-nooo. Noo nooo nooooo nooo noooo no nooo, N noo noooo, nooooo nooo

the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand; yet ever thinking
noo nooo noooo noooo, noo nooooo no nooo nooo no nooo; noo nooo nooooooo

that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid spell would be
nooo no N noooo noo nooo no noo nooooo nooo, noo nooooo noooo noooo no

broken. I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away from me;
nooooo. N nooo noo noo nooo noooooooooooo no nooo nooooo nooo nooo no;

but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and for
noo nooooo no noo noooooo, N nooooooooooo nooooooooo no noo, noo noo

days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding
nooo noo noooo noo nooooo nooooooooo N nooo nooooo no noooooooooo

attempts to explain the mystery. Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle
nooooooo no noooooo noo noooooo. Noo, no nooo nooo nooo, N noooo nooooo

myself with it.
nooooo nooo no.




Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
Noo, nooo nooo noo noooo nooo, noo no nooooooooo no noooooo noo

supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to
nooooooooooo nooo no nooo nooo nooo noooooo, no noooo noooooooooo, no

those which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg's pagan
noooo noooo N noooooooooo no nooooo no noo nooooo Nooooooo'n noooo

arm thrown round me. But at length all the past night's events soberly
noo nooooo noooo no. Noo no nooooo noo noo nooo noooo'n nooooo noooooo

recurred, one by one, in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to
nooooooo, noo no noo, no noooo noooooo, noo nooo N noo nooo noooo no

the comical predicament. For though I tried to move his arm--unlock his
noo noooooo noooooooooo. Noo nooooo N noooo no nooo noo noo--nooooo noo

bridegroom clasp--yet, sleeping as he was, he still hugged me tightly,
nooooooooo noooo--noo, nooooooo no no noo, no noooo nooooo no noooooo,

as though naught but death should part us twain. I now strove to rouse
no nooooo nooooo noo noooo nooooo nooo no noooo. N noo nooooo no noooo

him--"Queequeg!"--but his only answer was a snore. I then rolled over,
noo--"Nooooooo!"--noo noo nooo nooooo noo n noooo. N nooo nooooo nooo,

my neck feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a
no nooo noooooo no no no nooo no n noooo-nooooo; noo nooooooo nooo n

slight scratch. Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk
nooooo noooooo. Nooooooo noooo noo noooooooooo, noooo noo noo nooooooo

sleeping by the savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby. A
nooooooo no noo nooooo'n nooo, no no no nooo n noooooo-noooo nooo. N

pretty pickle, truly, thought I; abed here in a strange house in the
nooooo nooooo, noooo, noooooo N; nooo nooo no n noooooo noooo no noo

broad day, with a cannibal and a tomahawk! "Queequeg!--in the name of
noooo noo, nooo n nooooooo noo n nooooooo! "Nooooooo!--no noo nooo no

goodness, Queequeg, wake!" At length, by dint of much wriggling, and
nooooooo, Nooooooo, nooo!" No nooooo, no nooo no nooo noooooooo, noo

loud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of his
nooo noo noooooooo nooooooooooooo nooo noo nooooooooooooo no noo

hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style, I succeeded in
noooooo n nooooo nooo no nooo noooooooooo nooo no noooo, N noooooooo no

extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm, shook himself
nooooooooo n noooo; noo noooooooo, no nooo nooo noo noo, noooo noooooo

all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat up in bed,
noo nooo nooo n Nooooooooooo noo nooo nooo noo noooo, noo noo no no noo,

stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if he
noooo no n nooo-noooo, noooooo no no, noo noooooo noo nooo no no no

did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim
noo noo nooooooooo nooooooo noo N nooo no no noooo, nooooo n noo

consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over
noooooooooooo no noooooo noooooooo noooo no nooooo nooooo noooooo nooo

him. Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings
noo. Noooooooo, N noo noooooo nooooo noo, nooooo no noooooo nooooooooo

now, and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature. When, at
noo, noo nooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo no noooooo n nooooooo. Nooo, no

last, his mind seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow,
nooo, noo nooo nooooo nooo no nooooooo noo noooooooo no noo noooooooo,

and he became, as it were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon
noo no nooooo, no no nooo, nooooooooo no noo nooo; no nooooo noo nooo

the floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that,
noo noooo, noo no noooooo noooo noo nooooo nooo no no nooooooooo nooo,

if it pleased me, he would dress first and then leave me to dress
no no noooooo no, no noooo noooo noooo noo nooo noooo no no noooo

afterwards, leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks I, Queequeg,
nooooooooo, noooooo noo noooo noooooooo no nooooo. Nooooo N, Nooooooo,

under the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, the
noooo noo noooooooooooo, nooo no n nooo noooooooo nooooooo; noo, noo

truth is, these savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say what
noooo no, noooo noooooo nooo no nooooo noooo no nooooooo, noo nooo

you will; it is marvellous how essentially polite they are. I pay this
noo nooo; no no nooooooooo noo noooooooooo nooooo nooo noo. N noo nooo

particular compliment to Queequeg, because he treated me with so much
nooooooooo nooooooooo no Nooooooo, noooooo no noooooo no nooo no nooo

civility and consideration, while I was guilty of great rudeness;
nooooooo noo noooooooooooo, noooo N noo nooooo no noooo nooooooo;

staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette motions; for
noooooo no noo nooo noo noo, noo nooooooo noo noo nooooooo noooooo; noo

the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding. Nevertheless,
noo nooo no noooooooo noooooo noo nooooo no no nooooooo. Nooooooooooo,

a man like Queequeg you don't see every day, he and his ways were well
n noo nooo Nooooooo noo noo'n noo noooo noo, no noo noo nooo nooo nooo

worth unusual regarding.
noooo noooooo noooooooo.




He commenced dressing at top by donning his beaver hat, a very tall one,
No noooooooo nooooooo no noo no noooooo noo nooooo noo, n nooo nooo noo,

by the by, and then--still minus his trowsers--he hunted up his boots.
no noo no, noo nooo--noooo noooo noo nooooooo--no nooooo no noo noooo.

What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot tell, but his next
Nooo noooo noo noooooo no noo no noo, N nooooo nooo, noo noo nooo

movement was to crush himself--boots in hand, and hat on--under the bed;
nooooooo noo no noooo noooooo--noooo no nooo, noo noo no--noooo noo noo;

when, from sundry violent gaspings and strainings, I inferred he was
nooo, nooo nooooo noooooo nooooooo noo nooooooooo, N nooooooo no noo

hard at work booting himself; though by no law of propriety that I ever
nooo no nooo noooooo noooooo; nooooo no no noo no noooooooo nooo N nooo

heard of, is any man required to be private when putting on his
noooo no, no noo noo nooooooo no no noooooo nooo noooooo no noo

boots. But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature in the transition
noooo. Noo Nooooooo, no noo noo, noo n nooooooo no noo nooooooooo

stage--neither caterpillar nor butterfly. He was just enough civilized
noooo--noooooo noooooooooo noo noooooooo. No noo nooo nooooo noooooooo

to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible manners. His
no nooo noo noo nooooooooooooo no noo noooooooo nooooooo noooooo. Noo

education was not yet completed. He was an undergraduate. If he had not
noooooooo noo noo noo noooooooo. No noo no noooooooooooo. No no noo noo

been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have troubled
nooo n noooo nooooo noooooooo, no nooo nooooooo noooo noo nooo nooooooo

himself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a savage,
noooooo nooo noooo no noo; noo nooo, no no noo noo nooo noooo n nooooo,

he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on. At
no noooo noooo nooo nooooo no noooooo noooo noo noo no noo nooo no. No

last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over his
nooo, no noooooo nooo noo noo nooo nooo nooooo noo noooooo nooo nooo noo

eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not
nooo, noo noooo nooooooo noo noooooo noooo noo nooo, no no, noo

being much accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide
noooo nooo nooooooooo no noooo, noo nooo no nooo, nooooooo noooooo

ones--probably not made to order either--rather pinched and tormented
nooo--nooooooo noo nooo no noooo nooooo--nooooo noooooo noo noooooooo

him at the first go off of a bitter cold morning.
noo no noo noooo no noo no n nooooo nooo noooooo.




Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window, and that the
Nooooo, noo, nooo noooo nooo no nooooooo no noo nooooo, noo nooo noo

street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain view
nooooo noooo nooo nooooo, noo noooo nooooooo noooooooo n noooo nooo

into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that
nooo noo nooo, noo noooooooo nooo noo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooo nooo

Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on;
Nooooooo nooo, noooooo noooo nooo nooooo nooo noo noo noo noo noooo no;

I begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat,
N nooooo noo no nooo no N noooo, no nooooooooo noo nooooo nooooooo,

and particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible. He
noo nooooooooooo no noo nooo noo nooooooooo no nooo no nooooooo. No

complied, and then proceeded to wash himself. At that time in the
nooooooo, noo nooo noooooooo no nooo noooooo. No nooo nooo no noo

morning any Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to
noooooo noo Noooooooo noooo nooo nooooo noo nooo; noo Nooooooo, no

my amazement, contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his
no noooooooo, noooooooo noooooo nooo noooooooooo noo noooooooo no noo

chest, arms, and hands. He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a
noooo, nooo, noo noooo. No nooo nooooo noo noooooooo, noo nooooo no n

piece of hard soap on the wash-stand centre table, dipped it into water
noooo no nooo nooo no noo nooo-noooo nooooo noooo, nooooo no nooo noooo

and commenced lathering his face. I was watching to see where he kept
noo noooooooo noooooooo noo nooo. N noo nooooooo no noo noooo no nooo

his razor, when lo and behold, he takes the harpoon from the bed corner,
noo noooo, nooo no noo nooooo, no noooo noo noooooo nooo noo noo nooooo,

slips out the long wooden stock, unsheathes the head, whets it a little
noooo noo noo nooo nooooo noooo, nooooooooo noo nooo, noooo no n nooooo

on his boot, and striding up to the bit of mirror against the wall,
no noo nooo, noo nooooooo no no noo noo no nooooo noooooo noo nooo,

begins a vigorous scraping, or rather harpooning of his cheeks. Thinks
nooooo n nooooooo nooooooo, no nooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo. Nooooo

I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers's best cutlery with a vengeance.
N, Nooooooo, nooo no noooo Nooooo'n nooo noooooo nooo n noooooooo.

Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation when I came to know of
Nooooooooo N nooooooo noo nooo no nooo noooooooo nooo N nooo no nooo no

what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how exceedingly sharp
nooo nooo noooo noo nooo no n noooooo no nooo, noo noo noooooooooo noooo

the long straight edges are always kept.
noo nooo nooooooo noooo noo nooooo nooo.




The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of
Noo nooo no noo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo, noo no noooooo noooooo noo no

the room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his
noo nooo, noooooo no no noo noooo noooo nooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo noo

harpoon like a marshal's baton.
noooooo nooo n noooooo'n noooo.










CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.
NOOOOOO n. Noooooooo.







I quickly followed suit, and descending into the bar-room accosted the
N noooooo nooooooo nooo, noo nooooooooo nooo noo noo-nooo nooooooo noo

grinning landlord very pleasantly. I cherished no malice towards him,
nooooooo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo. N noooooooo no nooooo noooooo noo,

though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my
nooooo no noo nooo nooooooooo nooo no noo n nooooo no noo nooooo no no

bedfellow.
noooooooo.




However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and rather too scarce a
Noooooo, n nooo noooo no n nooooo nooo noooo, noo nooooo noo nooooo n

good thing; the more's the pity. So, if any one man, in his own
nooo noooo; noo nooo'n noo nooo. No, no noo noo noo, no noo noo

proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not be
nooooo nooooo, nooooo noooo noo n nooo nooo no noooooo, noo noo noo no

backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
nooooooo, noo noo noo nooooooooo noooo noooooo no noooo noo no noooo no

that way. And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him,
nooo noo. Noo noo noo nooo noo nooooooo noooooooooo noooooooo noooo noo,

be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.
no nooo noooo no nooo no nooo noo nooo noo noooooo noooo noo.




The bar-room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the
Noo noo-nooo noo noo nooo no noo nooooooo noo noo nooo nooooooo no noo

night previous, and whom I had not as yet had a good look at. They were
noooo nooooooo, noo nooo N noo noo no noo noo n nooo nooo no. Nooo nooo

nearly all whalemen; chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, and
nooooo noo nooooooo; noooo noooo, noo nooooo noooo, noo noooo noooo, noo

sea carpenters, and sea coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and harpooneers,
noo nooooooooo, noo noo noooooo, noo noo noooooooooo, noo noooooooooo,

and ship keepers; a brown and brawny company, with bosky beards; an
noo nooo noooooo; n noooo noo nooooo noooooo, nooo noooo nooooo; no

unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing monkey jackets for morning gowns.
noooooo, nooooo noo, noo noooooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo noooo.




You could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore. This
Noo noooo nooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noo noo nooo nooooo. Nooo

young fellow's healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted pear in hue, and
noooo nooooo'n noooooo noooo no nooo n noo-noooooo nooo no noo, noo

would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been three days
noooo nooo no noooo nooooo no noooo; no nooooo nooo nooo noooo nooo

landed from his Indian voyage. That man next him looks a few shades
nooooo nooo noo Nooooo nooooo. Nooo noo nooo noo noooo n noo nooooo

lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him. In the
noooooo; noo noooo noo n noooo no noooo nooo no no noo. No noo

complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly bleached
nooooooooo no n noooo noooo noooooo n nooooo nooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo

withal; HE doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore. But who could show
nooooo; NO noooooooo noo noooooo noooo noooo nooooo. Noo noo noooo nooo

a cheek like Queequeg? which, barred with various tints, seemed like the
n noooo nooo Nooooooo? noooo, nooooo nooo noooooo noooo, nooooo nooo noo

Andes' western slope, to show forth in one array, contrasting climates,
Noooo' noooooo noooo, no nooo noooo no noo noooo, noooooooooo nooooooo,

zone by zone.
nooo no nooo.




"Grub, ho!" now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we went
"Nooo, no!" noo noooo noo nooooooo, nooooooo nooo n nooo, noo no no nooo

to breakfast.
no noooooooo.




They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at ease
Nooo noo nooo noo noo nooo nooo noo noooo, noooooo nooooo noooo no nooo

in manner, quite self-possessed in company. Not always, though: Ledyard,
no nooooo, noooo nooo-noooooooo no noooooo. Noo nooooo, nooooo: Noooooo,

the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one; of all
noo noooo Noo Noooooo noooooooo, noo Noooo Nooo, noo Nooooo noo; no noo

men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor. But perhaps the
noo, nooo noooooooo noo noooo noooooooo no noo nooooo. Noo noooooo noo

mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or
nooo nooooooo no Noooooo no n nooooo noooo no nooo no Noooooo noo, no

the taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart
noo nooooo n nooo nooooooo nooo no no noooo noooooo, no noo noooo noooo

of Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances--this kind of
no Nooooo, noooo noo noo noo no nooo Noooo'n nooooooooooo--nooo nooo no

travel, I say, may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social
nooooo, N noo, noo noo no noo nooo nooo nooo no noooooooo n nooo nooooo

polish. Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had
nooooo. Noooo, noo noo nooo nooo, nooo nooo no noooo no no no noo

anywhere.
nooooooo.




These reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that
Noooo noooooooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooooo no noo nooooooooooo nooo

after we were all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some
noooo no nooo noo nooooo no noo noooo, noo N noo noooooooo no nooo nooo

good stories about whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every
nooo noooooo noooo noooooo; no no no noooo nooooooo, nooooo noooo

man maintained a profound silence. And not only that, but they looked
noo nooooooooo n nooooooo noooooo. Noo noo nooo nooo, noo nooo nooooo

embarrassed. Yes, here were a set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the
noooooooooo. Noo, nooo nooo n noo no noo-nooo, nooo no nooo noooooo noo

slightest bashfulness had boarded great whales on the high seas--entire
noooooooo noooooooooo noo noooooo noooo nooooo no noo nooo nooo--nooooo

strangers to them--and duelled them dead without winking; and yet, here
noooooooo no nooo--noo noooooo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo; noo noo, nooo

they sat at a social breakfast table--all of the same calling, all of
nooo noo no n nooooo noooooooo noooo--noo no noo nooo noooooo, noo no

kindred tastes--looking round as sheepishly at each other as though they
noooooo nooooo--noooooo noooo no nooooooooo no nooo noooo no nooooo nooo

had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the Green Mountains.
noo noooo nooo noo no noooo no nooo noooooooo noooo noo Noooo Noooooooo.

A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid warrior whalemen!
N noooooo noooo; noooo noooooo noooo, noooo noooo noooooo nooooooo!




But as for Queequeg--why, Queequeg sat there among them--at the head of
Noo no noo Nooooooo--noo, Nooooooo noo noooo noooo nooo--no noo nooo no

the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle. To be sure I cannot
noo noooo, noo, no no noooooo; no nooo no no nooooo. No no nooo N nooooo

say much for his breeding. His greatest admirer could not have cordially
noo nooo noo noo nooooooo. Noo nooooooo noooooo noooo noo nooo noooooooo

justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him, and using it
noooooooo noo nooooooo noo noooooo nooo noooooooo nooo noo, noo noooo no

there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the imminent
noooo noooooo nooooooo; nooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo no, no noo nooooooo

jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him. But
nooooooo no nooo noooo, noo noooooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo noo. Noo

THAT was certainly very coolly done by him, and every one knows that in
NOOO noo noooooooo nooo nooooo nooo no noo, noo noooo noo noooo nooo no

most people's estimation, to do anything coolly is to do it genteelly.
nooo nooooo'n nooooooooo, no no nooooooo nooooo no no no no noooooooo.




We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here; how he eschewed
No nooo noo noooo no noo Nooooooo'n noooooooooooo nooo; noo no nooooooo

coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to beefsteaks,
nooooo noo noo noooo, noo noooooo noo noooooooo noooooooo no nooooooooo,

done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew like the
nooo nooo. Nooooo, nooo nooo noooooooo noo nooo no nooooooo nooo noo

rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting
nooo nooo noo nooooo nooo, noooooo noo nooooooo-nooo, noo noo noooooo

there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on, when I
noooo noooooo noooooooo noo noooooo nooo noo noooooooooo noo no, nooo N

sallied out for a stroll.
noooooo noo noo n nooooo.










CHAPTER 6. The Street.
NOOOOOO n. Noo Nooooo.







If I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish
No N noo nooo nooooooooo no noooo nooooooo n noooooo no no nooooooooo

an individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of a
no nooooooooo no Nooooooo noooooooooo noooo noo nooooo noooooo no n

civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first
noooooooo nooo, nooo nooooooooooo nooo nooooooo nooo nooooo no noooo

daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.
nooooooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo no Noo Noooooo.




In thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will
No noooooooooooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooooooooooo noooooo nooo

frequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign
nooooooooo noooo no nooo noo nooooooo noooooo nooooooooooo nooo noooooo

parts. Even in Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners
noooo. Nooo no Nooooooo noo Nooooooo noooooo, Noooooooooooo nooooooo

will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies. Regent Street is not
nooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo. Nooooo Nooooo no noo

unknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live
noooooo no Noooooo noo Nooooo; noo no Nooooo, no noo Nooooo Noooo, nooo

Yankees have often scared the natives. But New Bedford beats all Water
Noooooo nooo noooo nooooo noo noooooo. Noo Noo Noooooo noooo noo Noooo

Street and Wapping. In these last-mentioned haunts you see only sailors;
Nooooo noo Noooooo. No noooo nooo-noooooooo nooooo noo noo nooo noooooo;

but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street corners;
noo no Noo Noooooo, nooooo noooooooo noooo nooooooo no nooooo noooooo;

savages outright; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy flesh. It
noooooo nooooooo; nooo no nooo noo noooo no noooo noooo nooooo noooo. No

makes a stranger stare.
noooo n nooooooo noooo.




But, besides the Feegeeans, Tongatobooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians,
Noo, noooooo noo Noooooooo, Nooooooooooooo, Noooooooooooo, Noooooooooo,

and Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft
noo Noooooooooo, noo, noooooo noo nooo noooooooo no noo noooooo-noooo

which unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still
noooo nooooooo nooo noooo noo noooooo, noo nooo noo noooo nooooo noooo

more curious, certainly more comical. There weekly arrive in this town
nooo noooooo, noooooooo nooo noooooo. Noooo nooooo nooooo no nooo nooo

scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all athirst for gain
nooooo no noooo Nooooooooo noo Noo Noooooooo noo, noo noooooo noo nooo

and glory in the fishery. They are mostly young, of stalwart frames;
noo noooo no noo noooooo. Nooo noo nooooo noooo, no nooooooo nooooo;

fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop the axe and snatch
noooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooo, noo noo nooo no nooo noo noo noo nooooo

the whale-lance. Many are as green as the Green Mountains whence they
noo noooo-noooo. Nooo noo no noooo no noo Noooo Noooooooo nooooo nooo

came. In some things you would think them but a few hours old. Look
nooo. No nooo nooooo noo noooo noooo nooo noo n noo noooo noo. Nooo

there! that chap strutting round the corner. He wears a beaver hat and
noooo! nooo nooo noooooooo noooo noo nooooo. No noooo n nooooo noo noo

swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife. Here
noooooo-nooooo nooo, noooooo nooo n nooooo-nooo noo nooooo-noooo. Nooo

comes another with a sou'-wester and a bombazine cloak.
noooo noooooo nooo n noo'-nooooo noo n noooooooo noooo.




No town-bred dandy will compare with a country-bred one--I mean a
No nooo-nooo noooo nooo noooooo nooo n noooooo-nooo noo--N nooo n

downright bumpkin dandy--a fellow that, in the dog-days, will mow his
noooooooo noooooo noooo--n nooooo nooo, no noo noo-nooo, nooo noo noo

two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of tanning his hands. Now when a
noo noooo no nooooooo nooooo noo nooo no noooooo noo noooo. Noo nooo n

country dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distinguished
noooooo noooo nooo nooo noooo no nooo noo nooo no nooo n noooooooooooo

reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you should see the
nooooooooo, noo noooo noo noooo noooo-noooooo, noo nooooo noo noo

comical things he does upon reaching the seaport. In bespeaking his
noooooo nooooo no nooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooo. No nooooooooo noo

sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps to his
noo-nooooo, no nooooo nooo-noooooo no noo nooooooooo; nooooo no noo

canvas trowsers. Ah, poor Hay-Seed! how bitterly will burst those straps
nooooo nooooooo. No, nooo Noo-Nooo! noo nooooooo nooo noooo noooo nooooo

in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
no noo noooo noooooo nooo, nooo nooo noo nooooo, nooooo, noooooo, noo

all, down the throat of the tempest.
noo, nooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo.




But think not that this famous town has only harpooneers, cannibals, and
Noo noooo noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo noooooooooo, noooooooo, noo

bumpkins to show her visitors. Not at all. Still New Bedford is a queer
nooooooo no nooo noo nooooooo. Noo no noo. Noooo Noo Noooooo no n noooo

place. Had it not been for us whalemen, that tract of land would this
noooo. Noo no noo nooo noo no nooooooo, nooo noooo no nooo noooo nooo

day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the coast of Labrador.
noo noooooo nooo nooo no no noooooo noooooooo no noo noooo no Nooooooo.

As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten one, they
No no no, noooo no noo nooo noooooo noo nooooo no nooooooo noo, nooo

look so bony. The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live
nooo no nooo. Noo nooo nooooo no noooooo noo noooooo noooo no nooo

in, in all New England. It is a land of oil, true enough: but not like
no, no noo Noo Noooooo. No no n nooo no noo, nooo nooooo: noo noo nooo

Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine. The streets do not run with
Nooooo; n nooo, nooo, no nooo noo nooo. Noo noooooo no noo noo nooo

milk; nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs. Yet, in
nooo; noo no noo nooooo-nooo no nooo nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo. Noo, no

spite of this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like
noooo no nooo, noooooo no noo Noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooooo-nooo

houses; parks and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford. Whence came
nooooo; noooo noo noooooo nooo noooooo, nooo no Noo Noooooo. Nooooo nooo

they? how planted upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?
nooo? noo noooooo nooo nooo nooo noooooo nooooo no n noooooo?




Go and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty
No noo nooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooooo nooooooo noooo nooooo noooo

mansion, and your question will be answered. Yes; all these brave houses
noooooo, noo nooo nooooooo nooo no nooooooo. Noo; noo noooo noooo nooooo

and flowery gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans.
noo noooooo noooooo nooo nooo noo Nooooooo, Noooooo, noo Nooooo nooooo.

One and all, they were harpooned and dragged up hither from the bottom
Noo noo noo, nooo nooo noooooooo noo noooooo no nooooo nooo noo nooooo

of the sea. Can Herr Alexander perform a feat like that?
no noo noo. Noo Nooo Noooooooo noooooo n nooo nooo nooo?




In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to their
No Noo Noooooo, noooooo, nooo noo, nooo nooooo noo nooooo no noooo

daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
noooooooo, noo noooooo noo noooo nooooo nooo n noo noooooooo n-noooo.

You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say,
Noo nooo no no Noo Noooooo no noo n noooooooo noooooo; noo, nooo noo,

they have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly
nooo nooo nooooooooo no noo no noooo noooo, noo noooo noooo nooooooooo

burn their lengths in spermaceti candles.
nooo noooo noooooo no nooooooooo noooooo.




In summer time, the town is sweet to see; full of fine maples--long
No nooooo nooo, noo nooo no noooo no noo; nooo no nooo nooooo--nooo

avenues of green and gold. And in August, high in air, the beautiful and
noooooo no noooo noo nooo. Noo no Nooooo, nooo no noo, noo noooooooo noo

bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by their
noooooooo noooo-noooooooo, nooooooooo-nooo, noooooo noo nooooo-no noooo

tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent is art;
nooooooo noooooo noooo no noooooooooo nooooooo. No nooooooooo no noo;

which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced bright terraces
noooo no nooo n nooooooo no Noo Noooooo noo nooooooooooo nooooo nooooooo

of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at creation's final
no noooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo noooo nooooo noooo no nooooooo'n noooo

day.
noo.




And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own red roses. But
Noo noo noooo no Noo Noooooo, nooo noooo nooo noooo noo noo noooo. Noo

roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of their cheeks
noooo nooo noooo no nooooo; noooooo noo nooo noooooooo no noooo nooooo

is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens. Elsewhere match that
no noooooooo no nooooooo no noo noooooo noooooo. Noooooooo noooo nooo

bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
noooo no nooooo, no nooooo, nooo no Noooo, noooo nooo nooo no noo noooo

girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off
noooo noooooo nooo nooo, noooo nooooo noooooooooo noooo nooo noooo noo

shore, as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of
noooo, no nooooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooooo Nooooooo noooooo no

the Puritanic sands.
noo Noooooooo noooo.










CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.
NOOOOOO n. Noo Nooooo.







In this same New Bedford there stands a Whaleman's Chapel, and few are
No nooo nooo Noo Noooooo noooo nooooo n Nooooooo'n Nooooo, noo noo noo

the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian Ocean or Pacific, who
noo noooo noooooooo, noooooo noooo noo noo Nooooo Noooo no Noooooo, noo

fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot. I am sure that I did not.
nooo no nooo n Nooooo noooo no noo nooo. N no nooo nooo N noo noo.




Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied out upon this
Noooooooo nooo no noooo noooooo nooooo, N noooo noooooo noo nooo nooo

special errand. The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving
noooooo nooooo. Noo noo noo noooooo nooo noooo, noooo nooo, no noooooo

sleet and mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called
noooo noo nooo. Nooooooo nooooo no no nooooo nooooo no noo noooo nooooo

bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm. Entering, I
nooooooo, N nooooo no noo noooooo noo nooooooo noooo. Nooooooo, N

found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors' wives and
noooo n noooo noooooooo nooooooooooo no noooooo, noo noooooo' noooo noo

widows. A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieks
nooooo. N noooooo noooooo noooooo, nooo nooooo no noooo no noo noooooo

of the storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from
no noo noooo. Nooo nooooo nooooooooo nooooo noooooooo noooooo noooo nooo

the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable. The
noo noooo, no no nooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooooooooo. Noo

chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these silent islands of men and
nooooooo noo noo noo noooooo; noo noooo noooo nooooo noooooo no noo noo

women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders,
noooo noo noooooooooo nooooo noooooo nooooo noooooo, nooo noooo noooooo,

masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit. Three of them ran
noooooo nooo noo nooo no nooooo nooo noo nooooo. Noooo no nooo noo

something like the following, but I do not pretend to quote:--
noooooooo nooo noo noooooooo, noo N no noo noooooo no noooo:--




SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF JOHN TALBOT, Who, at the age of eighteen, was
NOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOO NO NOOO NOOOOO, Noo, no noo noo no nooooooo, noo

lost overboard, Near the Isle of Desolation, off Patagonia, November
nooo noooooooo, Nooo noo Nooo no Nooooooooo, noo Noooooooo, Nooooooo

1st, 1836. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS SISTER.
noo, nooo. NOOO NOOOOO No noooooo no noo Nooooo NO NOO NOOOOO.




SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF ROBERT LONG, WILLIS ELLERY, NATHAN COLEMAN,
NOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOO NO NOOOOO NOOO, NOOOOO NOOOOO, NOOOOO NOOOOOO,

WALTER CANNY, SETH MACY, AND SAMUEL GLEIG, Forming one of the boats'
NOOOOO NOOOO, NOOO NOOO, NOO NOOOOO NOOOO, Noooooo noo no noo noooo'

crews OF THE SHIP ELIZA Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On the
noooo NO NOO NOOO NOOOO Noo nooo noooo noo no noooo no n Noooo, No noo

Off-shore Ground in the PACIFIC, December 31st, 1839. THIS MARBLE Is
Noo-noooo Nooooo no noo NOOOOOO, Nooooooo nooo, nooo. NOOO NOOOOO No

here placed by their surviving SHIPMATES.
nooo nooooo no noooo noooooooo NOOOOOOOO.




SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF The late CAPTAIN EZEKIEL HARDY, Who in the bows
NOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOO NO Noo nooo NOOOOOO NOOOOOO NOOOO, Noo no noo nooo

of his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, AUGUST
no noo nooo noo nooooo no n Noooo Noooo no noo noooo no Noooo, NOOOOO

3d, 1833. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS WIDOW.
no, nooo. NOOO NOOOOO No noooooo no noo Nooooo NO NOO NOOOO.




Shaking off the sleet from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated myself
Noooooo noo noo noooo nooo no noo-nooooo noo noo nooooo, N nooooo nooooo

near the door, and turning sideways was surprised to see Queequeg near
nooo noo nooo, noo noooooo nooooooo noo noooooooo no noo Nooooooo nooo

me. Affected by the solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze
no. Nooooooo no noo noooooooo no noo noooo, noooo noo n noooooooo nooo

of incredulous curiosity in his countenance. This savage was the only
no noooooooooo noooooooo no noo noooooooooo. Nooo nooooo noo noo nooo

person present who seemed to notice my entrance; because he was the only
nooooo noooooo noo nooooo no nooooo no nooooooo; noooooo no noo noo nooo

one who could not read, and, therefore, was not reading those frigid
noo noo noooo noo nooo, noo, noooooooo, noo noo noooooo noooo nooooo

inscriptions on the wall. Whether any of the relatives of the seamen
nooooooooooo no noo nooo. Noooooo noo no noo noooooooo no noo nooooo

whose names appeared there were now among the congregation, I knew not;
noooo noooo nooooooo noooo nooo noo noooo noo nooooooooooo, N nooo noo;

but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the fishery, and so plainly
noo no nooo noo noo nooooooooo noooooooo no noo noooooo, noo no noooooo

did several women present wear the countenance if not the trappings
noo noooooo noooo noooooo nooo noo noooooooooo no noo noo noooooooo

of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here before me were
no nooo noooooooo noooo, nooo N nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo no nooo

assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak
noooooooo noooo, no noooo noooooooo nooooo noo noooo no noooo noooo

tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed afresh.
noooooo noooooooooooooo nooooo noo noo nooooo no noooo nooooo.




Oh! ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing among
No! no noooo nooo noo nooooo noooooo noo noooo noooo; noo nooooooo noooo

flowers can say--here, HERE lies my beloved; ye know not the desolation
noooooo noo noo--nooo, NOOO nooo no noooooo; no nooo noo noo nooooooooo

that broods in bosoms like these. What bitter blanks in those
nooo nooooo no nooooo nooo noooo. Nooo nooooo nooooo no noooo

black-bordered marbles which cover no ashes! What despair in those
noooo-nooooooo noooooo noooo noooo no noooo! Nooo noooooo no noooo

immovable inscriptions! What deadly voids and unbidden infidelities in
noooooooo nooooooooooo! Nooo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo nooooooooooo no

the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuse resurrections to
noo noooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo noo Noooo, noo nooooo noooooooooooo no

the beings who have placelessly perished without a grave. As well might
noo nooooo noo nooo noooooooooo nooooooo noooooo n noooo. No nooo noooo

those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here.
noooo noooooo noooo no noo nooo no Noooooooo no nooo.




In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included;
No nooo nooooo no nooooo noooooooo, noo nooo no noooooo noo nooooooo;

why it is that a universal proverb says of them, that they tell no
noo no no nooo n noooooooo noooooo nooo no nooo, nooo nooo nooo no

tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands; how it is
noooo, nooooo nooooooooo nooo noooooo nooo noo Noooooo Noooo; noo no no

that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we prefix
nooo no noo nooo noo noooooooo nooooooo noo noo noooo noooo, no nooooo

so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
no noooooooooo noo noooooo n nooo, noo noo no noo nooo noooooo noo, no

he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the
no noo noooooo noo noo nooooooo Nooooo no nooo nooooo noooo; noo noo

Life Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what
Nooo Noooooooo Noooooooo noo noooo-noooooooooo nooo noooooooo; no nooo

eternal, unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies
noooooo, nooooooooo noooooooo, noo nooooo, nooooooo nooooo, noo nooo

antique Adam who died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we
noooooo Nooo noo nooo noooo noooo noooooooo noo; noo no no nooo no

still refuse to be comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are
noooo nooooo no no noooooooo noo noooo noo no nooooooooooo nooooooo noo

dwelling in unspeakable bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all
nooooooo no noooooooooo noooo; noo noo noo nooooo no nooooo no nooo noo

the dead; wherefore but the rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a
noo nooo; noooooooo noo noo noooo no n nooooooo no n nooo nooo noooooo n

whole city. All these things are not without their meanings.
noooo nooo. Noo noooo nooooo noo noo noooooo noooo nooooooo.




But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and even from these
Noo Noooo, nooo n nooooo, noooo noooo noo noooo, noo nooo nooo noooo

dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.
nooo nooooo noo noooooo noo nooo noooo nooo.




It needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a
No noooo nooooooo no no nooo, nooo nooo nooooooo, no noo noo no n

Nantucket voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky
Noooooooo nooooo, N nooooooo noooo nooooo noooooo, noo no noo noooo

light of that darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen
noooo no nooo nooooooo, noooooo noo nooo noo nooo no noo nooooooo

who had gone before me. Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine. But
noo noo nooo nooooo no. Noo, Noooooo, noo nooo nooo noo no noooo. Noo

somehow I grew merry again. Delightful inducements to embark, fine
noooooo N nooo noooo noooo. Nooooooooo noooooooooo no nooooo, nooo

chance for promotion, it seems--aye, a stove boat will make me an
nooooo noo noooooooo, no noooo--noo, n noooo nooo nooo nooo no no

immortal by brevet. Yes, there is death in this business of whaling--a
nooooooo no nooooo. Noo, noooo no noooo no nooo nooooooo no noooooo--n

speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into Eternity. But what
nooooooooooo noooo noooooo nooooooo no n noo nooo Nooooooo. Noo nooo

then? Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of Life and Death.
nooo? Nooooooo no nooo nooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo no Nooo noo Noooo.

Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true
Nooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo no nooooo nooo no noooo no no nooo

substance. Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too
noooooooo. Nooooooo nooo no noooooo no nooooo noooooooo, no noo noo

much like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that
nooo nooo noooooo noooooooo noo noo noooooo noo noooo, noo nooooooo nooo

thick water the thinnest of air. Methinks my body is but the lees of my
noooo noooo noo nooooooo no noo. Nooooooo no nooo no noo noo nooo no no

better being. In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not
nooooo noooo. No nooo nooo no nooo noo nooo, nooo no N noo, no no noo

me. And therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat and
no. Noo noooooooo noooo nooooo noo Noooooooo; noo nooo n noooo nooo noo

stove body when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.
noooo nooo nooo nooo nooo, noo noooo no nooo, Nooo noooooo nooooo.










CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit.
NOOOOOO n. Noo Nooooo.







I had not been seated very long ere a man of a certain venerable
N noo noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo noo n noo no n noooooo noooooooo

robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted door flew back upon
nooooooooo noooooo; noooooooooo no noo noooo-nooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo

admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all the congregation,
noooooooo noo, n noooo noooooooo nooooo no noo no noo noo nooooooooooo,

sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the chaplain. Yes, it
nooooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooo noo noo noo noo nooooooo. Noo, no

was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen, among whom he
noo noo nooooo Nooooo Nooooo, no nooooo no noo nooooooo, noooo nooo no

was a very great favourite. He had been a sailor and a harpooneer in his
noo n nooo noooo noooooooo. No noo nooo n nooooo noo n nooooooooo no noo

youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the ministry.
noooo, noo noo nooo noooo nooo noo noooooooo noo nooo no noo nooooooo.

At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter of a
No noo nooo N noo noooo no, Nooooo Nooooo noo no noo noooo nooooo no n

healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging into a second
noooooo noo noo; nooo nooo no noo noo noooo noooo noooooo nooo n nooooo

flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone
noooooooo noooo, noo noooo noo noo nooooooo no noo nooooooo, noooo noooo

certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom--the spring verdure
noooooo nooo nooooo no n noooo nooooooooo noooo--noo nooooo noooooo

peeping forth even beneath February's snow. No one having previously
noooooo noooo nooo noooooo Nooooooo'n nooo. No noo nooooo nooooooooo

heard his history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without
noooo noo noooooo, noooo noo noo noooo nooo nooooo Nooooo Nooooo noooooo

the utmost interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical
noo nooooo nooooooo, noooooo noooo nooo noooooo noooooooo nooooooo

peculiarities about him, imputable to that adventurous maritime life
noooooooooooo noooo noo, noooooooo no nooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooo

he had led. When he entered I observed that he carried no umbrella, and
no noo noo. Nooo no noooooo N nooooooo nooo no noooooo no nooooooo, noo

certainly had not come in his carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down
noooooooo noo noo nooo no noo nooooooo, noo noo noooooooo noo noo nooo

with melting sleet, and his great pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to
nooo noooooo noooo, noo noo noooo noooo noooo nooooo nooooo nooooo no

drag him to the floor with the weight of the water it had absorbed.
nooo noo no noo noooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noooo no noo nooooooo.

However, hat and coat and overshoes were one by one removed, and hung up
Noooooo, noo noo nooo noo noooooooo nooo noo no noo noooooo, noo nooo no

in a little space in an adjacent corner; when, arrayed in a decent suit,
no n nooooo noooo no no nooooooo nooooo; nooo, noooooo no n nooooo nooo,

he quietly approached the pulpit.
no noooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo.




Like most old fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a
Nooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo, no noo n nooo noooo noo, noo noooo n

regular stairs to such a height would, by its long angle with the floor,
noooooo nooooo no nooo n nooooo noooo, no noo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo,

seriously contract the already small area of the chapel, the architect,
noooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo noooo nooo no noo nooooo, noo noooooooo,

it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, and finished the
no nooooo, noo noooo nooo noo nooo no Nooooo Nooooo, noo nooooooo noo

pulpit without a stairs, substituting a perpendicular side ladder, like
nooooo noooooo n nooooo, nooooooooooo n noooooooooooo nooo nooooo, nooo

those used in mounting a ship from a boat at sea. The wife of a whaling
noooo nooo no nooooooo n nooo nooo n nooo no noo. Noo nooo no n noooooo

captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted
noooooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo n nooooooo nooo no noo noooooo

man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely headed, and
noo-noooo noo nooo nooooo, noooo, noooo nooooo nooooo nooooo, noo

stained with a mahogany colour, the whole contrivance, considering what
noooooo nooo n nooooooo nooooo, noo noooo noooooooooo, noooooooooo nooo

manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in bad taste. Halting for
nooooo no nooooo no noo, nooooo no no noooo no noo noooo. Noooooo noo

an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both hands grasping the
no noooooo no noo nooo no noo nooooo, noo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo noo

ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a look upwards,
nooooooooo noooo no noo noo-noooo, Nooooo Nooooo nooo n nooo noooooo,

and then with a truly sailor-like but still reverential dexterity, hand
noo nooo nooo n noooo nooooo-nooo noo noooo noooooooooo noooooooo, nooo

over hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the main-top of his vessel.
nooo nooo, noooooo noo noooo no no noooooooo noo nooo-noo no noo nooooo.




The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the case with
Noo noooooooooooo noooo no nooo nooo nooooo, no no noooooo noo nooo nooo

swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of wood,
nooooooo nooo, nooo no noooo-noooooo nooo, nooo noo nooooo nooo no nooo,

so that at every step there was a joint. At my first glimpse of the
no nooo no noooo nooo noooo noo n noooo. No no noooo noooooo no noo

pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship,
nooooo, no noo noo noooooo no nooo noooooo nooooooooo noo n nooo,

these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was not
noooo nooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo nooooo noooooooooo. Noo N noo noo

prepared to see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn
nooooooo no noo Nooooo Nooooo noooo noooooo noo nooooo, nooooo nooo

round, and stooping over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder
noooo, noo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo, nooooooooooo nooo no noo nooooo

step by step, till the whole was deposited within, leaving him
nooo no nooo, nooo noo noooo noo noooooooo nooooo, noooooo noo

impregnable in his little Quebec.
noooooooooo no noo nooooo Nooooo.




I pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.
N nooooooo nooo nooo noooooo noooo noooooooooooo noo nooooo noo nooo.

Father Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity,
Nooooo Nooooo noooooo nooo n nooo nooooooooo noo noooooooo noo nooooooo,

that I could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks
nooo N noooo noo noooooo noo no nooooooo noooooooo no noo nooo nooooo

of the stage. No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this
no noo noooo. No, noooooo N, noooo nooo no nooo noooo nooooo noo nooo

thing; furthermore, it must symbolize something unseen. Can it be,
noooo; noooooooooo, no nooo noooooooo noooooooo nooooo. Noo no no,

then, that by that act of physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual
nooo, nooo no nooo noo no nooooooo noooooooo, no noooooooo noo noooooooo

withdrawal for the time, from all outward worldly ties and connexions?
nooooooooo noo noo nooo, nooo noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooooo?

Yes, for replenished with the meat and wine of the word, to the faithful
Noo, noo noooooooooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo no noo nooo, no noo nooooooo

man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a self-containing stronghold--a lofty
noo no Noo, nooo nooooo, N noo, no n nooo-nooooooooo nooooooooo--n noooo

Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial well of water within the walls.
Noooooooooooooo, nooo n noooooooo nooo no noooo nooooo noo noooo.




But the side ladder was not the only strange feature of the place,
Noo noo nooo nooooo noo noo noo nooo noooooo noooooo no noo noooo,

borrowed from the chaplain's former sea-farings. Between the marble
nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo'n nooooo noo-noooooo. Noooooo noo nooooo

cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which formed its back
noooooooo no nooooo nooo no noo nooooo, noo nooo noooo nooooo noo nooo

was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship beating
noo noooooo nooo n noooo nooooooo nooooooooooo n noooooo nooo noooooo

against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy
noooooo n nooooooo noooo noo n noo noooo no noooo noooo noo noooo

breakers. But high above the flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there
nooooooo. Noo nooo noooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooo-noooooo nooooo, noooo

floated a little isle of sunlight, from which beamed forth an angel's
noooooo n nooooo nooo no nooooooo, nooo noooo nooooo noooo no noooo'n

face; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon the
nooo; noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo n nooooooo nooo no nooooooo nooo noo

ship's tossed deck, something like that silver plate now inserted into
nooo'n nooooo nooo, noooooooo nooo nooo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo

the Victory's plank where Nelson fell. "Ah, noble ship," the angel
noo Noooooo'n noooo noooo Nooooo nooo. "No, noooo nooo," noo noooo

seemed to say, "beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and bear a hardy
nooooo no noo, "nooo no, nooo no, nooo noooo nooo, noo nooo n noooo

helm; for lo! the sun is breaking through; the clouds are rolling
nooo; noo no! noo noo no nooooooo noooooo; noo nooooo noo noooooo

off--serenest azure is at hand."
noo--nooooooo noooo no no nooo."




Nor was the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea-taste that
Noo noo noo nooooo nooooo noooooo n noooo no noo nooo noo-noooo nooo

had achieved the ladder and the picture. Its panelled front was in
noo nooooooo noo nooooo noo noo noooooo. Noo nooooooo noooo noo no

the likeness of a ship's bluff bows, and the Holy Bible rested on a
noo nooooooo no n nooo'n noooo nooo, noo noo Nooo Noooo nooooo no n

projecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship's fiddle-headed
nooooooooo noooo no nooooo nooo, noooooooo noooo n nooo'n nooooo-nooooo

beak.
nooo.




What could be more full of meaning?--for the pulpit is ever this earth's
Nooo noooo no nooo nooo no noooooo?--noo noo nooooo no nooo nooo noooo'n

foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit leads the
nooooooo nooo; noo noo nooo noooo no noo nooo; noo nooooo noooo noo

world. From thence it is the storm of God's quick wrath is first
noooo. Nooo nooooo no no noo noooo no Noo'n noooo noooo no noooo

descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt. From thence it is
nooooooo, noo noo noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo. Nooo nooooo no no

the God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable winds.
noo Noo no noooooo nooo no nooo no noooo noooooo noo nooooooooo noooo.

Yes, the world's a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete;
Noo, noo noooo'n n nooo no noo noooooo noo, noo noo n nooooo nooooooo;

and the pulpit is its prow.
noo noo nooooo no noo nooo.










CHAPTER 9. The Sermon.
NOOOOOO n. Noo Nooooo.







Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of unassuming authority ordered
Nooooo Nooooo nooo, noo no n nooo noooo no nooooooooo noooooooo noooooo

the scattered people to condense. "Starboard gangway, there! side away
noo noooooooo nooooo no nooooooo. "Noooooooo noooooo, noooo! nooo nooo

to larboard--larboard gangway to starboard! Midships! midships!"
no nooooooo--nooooooo noooooo no noooooooo! Nooooooo! nooooooo!"




There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the benches, and a
Noooo noo n noo nooooooo no noooo noo-noooo noooo noo noooooo, noo n

still slighter shuffling of women's shoes, and all was quiet again, and
noooo nooooooo noooooooo no noooo'n noooo, noo noo noo noooo noooo, noo

every eye on the preacher.
noooo noo no noo nooooooo.




He paused a little; then kneeling in the pulpit's bows, folded his large
No nooooo n nooooo; nooo nooooooo no noo nooooo'n nooo, nooooo noo noooo

brown hands across his chest, uplifted his closed eyes, and offered
noooo noooo nooooo noo noooo, nooooooo noo nooooo nooo, noo noooooo

a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at the
n nooooo no nooooo nooooo nooo no nooooo nooooooo noo noooooo no noo

bottom of the sea.
nooooo no noo noo.




This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the continual tolling of
Nooo noooo, no noooooooo nooooo noooo, nooo noo noooooooo noooooo no

a bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog--in such tones he
n nooo no n nooo nooo no nooooooooo no noo no n noo--no nooo noooo no

commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner towards
noooooooo noooooo noo noooooooo nooo; noo nooooooo noo nooooo noooooo

the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy--
noo nooooooooo noooooo, noooo noooo nooo n noooooo nooooooooo noo noo--




     "The ribs and terrors in the whale,
     "Noo nooo noo noooooo no noo noooo,

     Arched over me a dismal gloom,
     Nooooo nooo no n nooooo noooo,

     While all God's sun-lit waves rolled by,
     Noooo noo Noo'n noo-noo noooo nooooo no,

     And lift me deepening down to doom.
     Noo nooo no noooooooo nooo no nooo.




     "I saw the opening maw of hell,
     "N noo noo noooooo noo no nooo,

     With endless pains and sorrows there;
     Nooo noooooo noooo noo noooooo noooo;

     Which none but they that feel can tell--
     Noooo nooo noo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo--

     Oh, I was plunging to despair.
     No, N noo nooooooo no noooooo.




     "In black distress, I called my God,
     "No noooo nooooooo, N nooooo no Noo,

     When I could scarce believe him mine,
     Nooo N noooo nooooo noooooo noo nooo,

     He bowed his ear to my complaints--
     No noooo noo noo no no nooooooooo--

     No more the whale did me confine.
     No nooo noo noooo noo no noooooo.




     "With speed he flew to my relief,
     "Nooo noooo no nooo no no nooooo,

     As on a radiant dolphin borne;
     No no n noooooo noooooo noooo;

     Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone
     Noooo, noo nooooo, no noooooooo noooo

     The face of my Deliverer God.
     Noo nooo no no Noooooooo Noo.




     "My song for ever shall record
     "No nooo noo nooo noooo nooooo

     That terrible, that joyful hour;
     Nooo nooooooo, nooo nooooo nooo;

     I give the glory to my God,
     N nooo noo noooo no no Noo,

     His all the mercy and the power."
     Noo noo noo noooo noo noo noooo."







Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the
Nooooo noo nooooo no noooooo nooo nooo, noooo noooooo nooo noooo noo

howling of the storm. A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned
noooooo no noo noooo. N noooo noooo nooooo; noo nooooooo nooooo nooooo

over the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon
nooo noo nooooo no noo Noooo, noo no nooo, noooooo noo nooo nooo nooo

the proper page, said: "Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the
noo nooooo nooo, nooo: "Noooooo noooooooo, nooooo noo nooo noooo no noo

first chapter of Jonah--'And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up
noooo noooooo no Noooo--'Noo Noo noo nooooooo n noooo nooo no noooooo no

Jonah.'"
Noooo.'"




"Shipmates, this book, containing only four chapters--four yarns--is one
"Noooooooo, nooo nooo, nooooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo--nooo noooo--no noo

of the smallest strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures. Yet what
no noo nooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo noooo no noo Nooooooooo. Noo nooo

depths of the soul does Jonah's deep sealine sound! what a pregnant
nooooo no noo nooo nooo Noooo'n nooo noooooo noooo! nooo n nooooooo

lesson to us is this prophet! What a noble thing is that canticle in the
nooooo no no no nooo noooooo! Nooo n noooo noooo no nooo nooooooo no noo

fish's belly! How billow-like and boisterously grand! We feel the floods
nooo'n noooo! Noo nooooo-nooo noo nooooooooooo noooo! No nooo noo nooooo

surging over us; we sound with him to the kelpy bottom of the waters;
noooooo nooo no; no noooo nooo noo no noo noooo nooooo no noo nooooo;

sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is about us! But WHAT is this
noo-nooo noo noo noo noooo no noo noo no noooo no! Noo NOOO no nooo

lesson that the book of Jonah teaches? Shipmates, it is a two-stranded
nooooo nooo noo nooo no Noooo noooooo? Noooooooo, no no n noo-nooooooo

lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men, and a lesson to me as a pilot
nooooo; n nooooo no no noo no nooooo noo, noo n nooooo no no no n noooo

of the living God. As sinful men, it is a lesson to us all, because it
no noo nooooo Noo. No nooooo noo, no no n nooooo no no noo, noooooo no

is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness, suddenly awakened fears, the
no n noooo no noo noo, nooo-noooooooooo, nooooooo nooooooo noooo, noo

swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and finally the deliverance and
noooo nooooooooo, nooooooooo, noooooo, noo noooooo noo noooooooooo noo

joy of Jonah. As with all sinners among men, the sin of this son of
noo no Noooo. No nooo noo noooooo noooo noo, noo noo no nooo noo no

Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command of God--never
Noooooo noo no noo nooooo nooooooooooo no noo noooooo no Noo--noooo

mind now what that command was, or how conveyed--which he found a hard
nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo noo, no noo nooooooo--noooo no noooo n nooo

command. But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us to
noooooo. Noo noo noo nooooo nooo Noo noooo nooo no no noo nooo noo no no

do--remember that--and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to
no--nooooooo nooo--noo noooo, no noooooo nooooooo no nooo noooooooo no

persuade. And if we obey God, we must disobey ourselves; and it is in
nooooooo. Noo no no nooo Noo, no nooo noooooo noooooooo; noo no no no

this disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.
nooo nooooooooo noooooooo, noooooo noo nooooooo no noooooo Noo nooooooo.




"With this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts at
"Nooo nooo noo no nooooooooooo no noo, Noooo noooo noooooo nooooo no

God, by seeking to flee from Him. He thinks that a ship made by men will
Noo, no noooooo no nooo nooo Noo. No nooooo nooo n nooo nooo no noo nooo

carry him into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains
noooo noo nooo noooooooo noooo Noo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo noo Nooooooo

of this earth. He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship
no nooo noooo. No nooooo noooo noo noooooo no Noooo, noo noooo n nooo

that's bound for Tarshish. There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded
nooo'n noooo noo Nooooooo. Noooo noooo, noooooo, n nooooooo nooooooo

meaning here. By all accounts Tarshish could have been no other city
noooooo nooo. No noo nooooooo Nooooooo noooo nooo nooo no noooo nooo

than the modern Cadiz. That's the opinion of learned men. And where is
nooo noo nooooo Noooo. Nooo'n noo noooooo no noooooo noo. Noo noooo no

Cadiz, shipmates? Cadiz is in Spain; as far by water, from Joppa,
Noooo, noooooooo? Noooo no no Noooo; no noo no noooo, nooo Noooo,

as Jonah could possibly have sailed in those ancient days, when the
no Noooo noooo nooooooo nooo nooooo no noooo noooooo nooo, nooo noo

Atlantic was an almost unknown sea. Because Joppa, the modern Jaffa,
Nooooooo noo no nooooo noooooo noo. Noooooo Noooo, noo nooooo Noooo,

shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the Mediterranean, the
noooooooo, no no noo nooo nooooooo noooo no noo Noooooooooooo, noo

Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles to the
Nooooo; noo Nooooooo no Noooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo no noo

westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar. See ye
nooooooo nooo nooo, nooo noooooo noo Noooooo no Noooooooo. Noo no

not then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?
noo nooo, noooooooo, nooo Noooo nooooo no nooo noooo-nooo nooo Noo?

Miserable man! Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with
Noooooooo noo! No! nooo nooooooooooo noo nooooo no noo noooo; nooo

slouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the
nooooooo noo noo nooooo noo, nooooooo nooo noo Noo; nooooooo noooo noo

shipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross the seas. So disordered,
nooooooo nooo n nooo noooooo noooooooo no noooo noo nooo. No nooooooooo,

self-condemning is his look, that had there been policemen in those
nooo-nooooooooo no noo nooo, nooo noo noooo nooo noooooooo no noooo

days, Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested
nooo, Noooo, no noo nooo noooooooo no noooooooo noooo, noo nooo nooooooo

ere he touched a deck. How plainly he's a fugitive! no baggage, not a
noo no noooooo n nooo. Noo noooooo no'n n nooooooo! no noooooo, noo n

hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,--no friends accompany him to the wharf
noo-noo, nooooo, no nooooo-noo,--no noooooo noooooooo noo no noo noooo

with their adieux. At last, after much dodging search, he finds the
nooo noooo nooooo. No nooo, noooo nooo noooooo nooooo, no noooo noo

Tarshish ship receiving the last items of her cargo; and as he steps on
Nooooooo nooo noooooooo noo nooo noooo no noo noooo; noo no no noooo no

board to see its Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment
noooo no noo noo Noooooo no noo noooo, noo noo noooooo noo noo nooooo

desist from hoisting in the goods, to mark the stranger's evil eye.
nooooo nooo nooooooo no noo noooo, no nooo noo nooooooo'n nooo noo.

Jonah sees this; but in vain he tries to look all ease and confidence;
Noooo nooo nooo; noo no nooo no noooo no nooo noo nooo noo nooooooooo;

in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of the man assure
no nooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo. Nooooo nooooooooo no noo noo nooooo

the mariners he can be no innocent. In their gamesome but still serious
noo nooooooo no noo no no nooooooo. No noooo nooooooo noo noooo noooooo

way, one whispers to the other--"Jack, he's robbed a widow;" or, "Joe,
noo, noo nooooooo no noo noooo--"Nooo, no'n nooooo n noooo;" no, "Noo,

do you mark him; he's a bigamist;" or, "Harry lad, I guess he's the
no noo nooo noo; no'n n nooooooo;" no, "Noooo noo, N noooo no'n noo

adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of the missing
noooooooo nooo noooo nooo no noo Nooooooo, no nooooo, noo no noo noooooo

murderers from Sodom." Another runs to read the bill that's stuck
noooooooo nooo Noooo." Noooooo nooo no nooo noo nooo nooo'n noooo

against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering
noooooo noo noooo nooo noo noooo no noooo noo nooo no nooooo, nooooooo

five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and
nooo noooooo nooo noooo noo noo nooooooooooo no n noooooooo, noo

containing a description of his person. He reads, and looks from Jonah
nooooooooo n noooooooooo no noo nooooo. No noooo, noo noooo nooo Noooo

to the bill; while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah,
no noo nooo; noooo noo noo noooooooooo noooooooo noo noooo noooo Noooo,

prepared to lay their hands upon him. Frighted Jonah trembles, and
nooooooo no noo noooo noooo nooo noo. Nooooooo Noooo nooooooo, noo

summoning all his boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a
noooooooo noo noo nooooooo no noo nooo, nooo noooo no nooo noo nooo n

coward. He will not confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong
nooooo. No nooo noo noooooo noooooo noooooooo; noo nooo nooooo no nooooo

suspicion. So he makes the best of it; and when the sailors find him
noooooooo. No no noooo noo nooo no no; noo nooo noo noooooo nooo noo

not to be the man that is advertised, they let him pass, and he descends
noo no no noo noo nooo no nooooooooo, nooo noo noo nooo, noo no nooooooo

into the cabin.
nooo noo noooo.




"'Who's there?' cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making
"'Noo'n noooo?' noooo noo Noooooo no noo nooo nooo, noooooooo nooooo

out his papers for the Customs--'Who's there?' Oh! how that harmless
noo noo nooooo noo noo Noooooo--'Noo'n noooo?' No! noo nooo nooooooo

question mangles Jonah! For the instant he almost turns to flee again.
nooooooo noooooo Noooo! Noo noo noooooo no nooooo noooo no nooo noooo.

But he rallies. 'I seek a passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon
Noo no noooooo. 'N nooo n noooooo no nooo nooo no Nooooooo; noo nooo

sail ye, sir?' Thus far the busy Captain had not looked up to Jonah,
nooo no, noo?' Nooo noo noo nooo Noooooo noo noo nooooo no no Noooo,

though the man now stands before him; but no sooner does he hear that
nooooo noo noo noo nooooo nooooo noo; noo no nooooo nooo no nooo nooo

hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing glance. 'We sail with the
nooooo noooo, nooo no noooo n nooooooooooo nooooo. 'No nooo nooo noo

next coming tide,' at last he slowly answered, still intently eyeing
nooo nooooo nooo,' no nooo no nooooo nooooooo, noooo nooooooo nooooo

him. 'No sooner, sir?'--'Soon enough for any honest man that goes a
noo. 'No nooooo, noo?'--'Nooo nooooo noo noo nooooo noo nooo nooo n

passenger.' Ha! Jonah, that's another stab. But he swiftly calls away
noooooooo.' No! Noooo, nooo'n noooooo nooo. Noo no noooooo noooo nooo

the Captain from that scent. 'I'll sail with ye,'--he says,--'the
noo Noooooo nooo nooo noooo. 'N'no nooo nooo no,'--no nooo,--'noo

passage money how much is that?--I'll pay now.' For it is particularly
noooooo noooo noo nooo no nooo?--N'no noo noo.' Noo no no nooooooooooo

written, shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this
noooooo, noooooooo, no no no nooo n noooo noo no no nooooooooo no nooo

history, 'that he paid the fare thereof' ere the craft did sail. And
noooooo, 'nooo no nooo noo nooo noooooo' noo noo noooo noo nooo. Noo

taken with the context, this is full of meaning.
noooo nooo noo noooooo, nooo no nooo no noooooo.




"Now Jonah's Captain, shipmates, was one whose discernment detects crime
"Noo Noooo'n Noooooo, noooooooo, noo noo noooo noooooooooo noooooo noooo

in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the penniless. In this
no noo, noo noooo nooooooo noooooo no nooo no noo noooooooo. No nooo

world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely, and without
noooo, noooooooo, noo nooo nooo noo noo noo nooooo nooooo, noo noooooo

a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all frontiers.
n nooooooo; noooooo Nooooo, no n nooooo, no noooooo no noo noooooooo.

So Jonah's Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah's purse, ere he
No Noooo'n Noooooo nooooooo no nooo noo nooooo no Noooo'n noooo, noo no

judge him openly. He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it's assented
noooo noo nooooo. No noooooo noo nooooo noo noooo noo; noo no'n nooooooo

to. Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the same
no. Nooo noo Noooooo noooo nooo Noooo no n nooooooo; noo no noo nooo

time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold. Yet when
nooo nooooooo no nooo n nooooo nooo noooo noo nooo nooo nooo. Noo nooo

Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the
Noooo nooooo noooo noo noo noooo, noooooo nooooooooo noooo nooooo noo

Captain. He rings every coin to find a counterfeit. Not a forger, any
Noooooo. No noooo noooo nooo no nooo n noooooooooo. Noo n nooooo, noo

way, he mutters; and Jonah is put down for his passage. 'Point out my
noo, no noooooo; noo Noooo no noo nooo noo noo noooooo. 'Noooo noo no

state-room, Sir,' says Jonah now, 'I'm travel-weary; I need sleep.'
noooo-nooo, Noo,' nooo Noooo noo, 'N'n nooooo-noooo; N nooo noooo.'

'Thou lookest like it,' says the Captain, 'there's thy room.' Jonah
'Nooo noooooo nooo no,' nooo noo Noooooo, 'noooo'n noo nooo.' Noooo

enters, and would lock the door, but the lock contains no key. Hearing
nooooo, noo noooo nooo noo nooo, noo noo nooo nooooooo no noo. Noooooo

him foolishly fumbling there, the Captain laughs lowly to himself, and
noo noooooooo nooooooo noooo, noo Noooooo nooooo noooo no noooooo, noo

mutters something about the doors of convicts' cells being never allowed
noooooo noooooooo noooo noo noooo no nooooooo' noooo noooo noooo noooooo

to be locked within. All dressed and dusty as he is, Jonah throws
no no nooooo nooooo. Noo noooooo noo noooo no no no, Noooo nooooo

himself into his berth, and finds the little state-room ceiling almost
noooooo nooo noo noooo, noo noooo noo nooooo noooo-nooo noooooo nooooo

resting on his forehead. The air is close, and Jonah gasps. Then, in
noooooo no noo nooooooo. Noo noo no noooo, noo Noooo noooo. Nooo, no

that contracted hole, sunk, too, beneath the ship's water-line, Jonah
nooo nooooooooo nooo, nooo, noo, noooooo noo nooo'n noooo-nooo, Noooo

feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour, when the whale
noooo noo noooooooo nooooooooooo no nooo nooooooo nooo, nooo noo noooo

shall hold him in the smallest of his bowels' wards.
noooo nooo noo no noo nooooooo no noo nooooo' noooo.




"Screwed at its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly
"Noooooo no noo nooo noooooo noo nooo, n nooooooo nooo nooooooo

oscillates in Jonah's room; and the ship, heeling over towards the wharf
nooooooooo no Noooo'n nooo; noo noo nooo, noooooo nooo noooooo noo noooo

with the weight of the last bales received, the lamp, flame and all,
nooo noo nooooo no noo nooo noooo nooooooo, noo nooo, noooo noo noo,

though in slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquity with
nooooo no nooooo nooooo, noooo noooooooo n noooooooo noooooooo nooo

reference to the room; though, in truth, infallibly straight itself, it
noooooooo no noo nooo; nooooo, no noooo, nooooooooo nooooooo nooooo, no

but made obvious the false, lying levels among which it hung. The lamp
noo nooo noooooo noo noooo, noooo nooooo noooo noooo no nooo. Noo nooo

alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his berth his tormented eyes
nooooo noo noooooooo Noooo; no noooo no noo noooo noo noooooooo nooo

roll round the place, and this thus far successful fugitive finds no
nooo noooo noo noooo, noo nooo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo noooo no

refuge for his restless glance. But that contradiction in the lamp more
nooooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo. Noo nooo noooooooooooo no noo nooo nooo

and more appals him. The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.
noo nooo nooooo noo. Noo noooo, noo noooooo, noo noo nooo, noo noo nooo.

'Oh! so my conscience hangs in me!' he groans, 'straight upwards, so it
'No! no no nooooooooo noooo no no!' no nooooo, 'nooooooo noooooo, no no

burns; but the chambers of my soul are all in crookedness!'
noooo; noo noo nooooooo no no nooo noo noo no noooooooooo!'




"Like one who after a night of drunken revelry hies to his bed, still
"Nooo noo noo noooo n noooo no noooooo noooooo nooo no noo noo, noooo

reeling, but with conscience yet pricking him, as the plungings of the
noooooo, noo nooo nooooooooo noo nooooooo noo, no noo noooooooo no noo

Roman race-horse but so much the more strike his steel tags into him; as
Noooo nooo-noooo noo no nooo noo nooo nooooo noo noooo nooo nooo noo; no

one who in that miserable plight still turns and turns in giddy anguish,
noo noo no nooo noooooooo nooooo noooo noooo noo noooo no noooo noooooo,

praying God for annihilation until the fit be passed; and at last amid
noooooo Noo noo nooooooooooo noooo noo noo no nooooo; noo no nooo nooo

the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals over him, as over the
noo noooo no noo no noooo, n nooo nooooo nooooo nooo noo, no nooo noo

man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound, and there's naught
noo noo nooooo no noooo, noo nooooooooo no noo noooo, noo noooo'n nooooo

to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth, Jonah's prodigy
no noooooo no; no, noooo nooo nooooooooo no noo noooo, Noooo'n noooooo

of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.
no noooooooo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo no noooo.




"And now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and
"Noo noo noo nooo no nooo noo nooo; noo nooo noooo noo noo nooooo; noo

from the deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening,
nooo noo nooooooo noooo noo noooooooo nooo noo Nooooooo, noo noooooooo,

glides to sea. That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded
nooooo no noo. Nooo nooo, no noooooo, noo noo noooo no nooooooo

smugglers! the contraband was Jonah. But the sea rebels; he will not
noooooooo! noo nooooooooo noo Noooo. Noo noo noo nooooo; no nooo noo

bear the wicked burden. A dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to
nooo noo nooooo nooooo. N nooooooo noooo noooo no, noo nooo no nooo no

break. But now when the boatswain calls all hands to lighten her;
noooo. Noo noo nooo noo noooooooo noooo noo noooo no noooooo noo;

when boxes, bales, and jars are clattering overboard; when the wind
nooo noooo, noooo, noo nooo noo nooooooooo noooooooo; nooo noo nooo

is shrieking, and the men are yelling, and every plank thunders with
no noooooooo, noo noo noo noo noooooo, noo noooo noooo nooooooo nooo

trampling feet right over Jonah's head; in all this raging tumult, Jonah
noooooooo nooo noooo nooo Noooo'n nooo; no noo nooo nooooo nooooo, Noooo

sleeps his hideous sleep. He sees no black sky and raging sea, feels not
nooooo noo noooooo noooo. No nooo no noooo noo noo nooooo noo, noooo noo

the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he the far rush of the
noo noooooo noooooo, noo nooooo noooo no no noooo no noo noo nooo no noo

mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving the seas after
nooooo noooo, noooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo no nooooooo noo nooo noooo

him. Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship--a
noo. Noo, noooooooo, Noooo noo nooo nooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooo--n

berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep. But the
noooo no noo noooo no N nooo noooo no, noo noo nooo nooooo. Noo noo

frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, 'What
nooooooooo nooooo noooo no noo, noo noooooo no noo nooo noo, 'Nooo

meanest thou, O, sleeper! arise!' Startled from his lethargy by that
noooooo nooo, N, noooooo! noooo!' Nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo no nooo

direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck,
noooooo noo, Noooo nooooooo no noo nooo, noo noooooooo no noo nooo,

grasps a shroud, to look out upon the sea. But at that moment he is
nooooo n nooooo, no nooo noo nooo noo noo. Noo no nooo nooooo no no

sprung upon by a panther billow leaping over the bulwarks. Wave after
nooooo nooo no n noooooo nooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo. Nooo noooo

wave thus leaps into the ship, and finding no speedy vent runs roaring
nooo nooo noooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooooo no nooooo nooo nooo noooooo

fore and aft, till the mariners come nigh to drowning while yet afloat.
nooo noo noo, nooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo no nooooooo noooo noo nooooo.

And ever, as the white moon shows her affrighted face from the steep
Noo nooo, no noo noooo nooo noooo noo nooooooooo nooo nooo noo noooo

gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees the rearing
noooooo no noo noooooooo nooooooo, nooooo Noooo nooo noo noooooo

bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward again towards the
nooooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooo noooo noooooo noo

tormented deep.
noooooooo nooo.




"Terrors upon terrors run shouting through his soul. In all his cringing
"Noooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo noooooo noo nooo. No noo noo nooooooo

attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly known. The sailors mark
noooooooo, noo Noo-nooooooo no noo noo noooooo noooo. Noo noooooo nooo

him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of him, and at last,
noo; nooo noo nooo noooooo nooo noooo nooooooooo no noo, noo no nooo,

fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to high Heaven,
noooo no nooo noo noooo, no noooooooo noo noooo nooooo no nooo Nooooo,

they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great tempest was
nooo nooo no noooooo nooo, no noo noo noooo noooo nooo noooo noooooo noo

upon them. The lot is Jonah's; that discovered, then how furiously they
nooo nooo. Noo noo no Noooo'n; nooo nooooooooo, nooo noo noooooooo nooo

mob him with their questions. 'What is thine occupation? Whence comest
noo noo nooo noooo noooooooo. 'Nooo no noooo nooooooooo? Nooooo nooooo

thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now, my shipmates, the behavior
nooo? Noo noooooo? Nooo nooooo? Noo nooo noo, no noooooooo, noo nooooooo

of poor Jonah. The eager mariners but ask him who he is, and where
no nooo Noooo. Noo noooo nooooooo noo noo noo noo no no, noo noooo

from; whereas, they not only receive an answer to those questions,
nooo; noooooo, nooo noo nooo noooooo no nooooo no noooo noooooooo,

but likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the
noo nooooooo noooooo nooooo no n nooooooo noo noo no nooo, noo noo

unsolicited answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is
noooooooooo nooooo no nooooo nooo Noooo no noo nooo nooo no Noo nooo no

upon him.
nooo noo.




"'I am a Hebrew,' he cries--and then--'I fear the Lord the God of Heaven
"'N no n Nooooo,' no noooo--noo nooo--'N nooo noo Nooo noo Noo no Nooooo

who hath made the sea and the dry land!' Fear him, O Jonah? Aye, well
noo nooo nooo noo noo noo noo noo nooo!' Nooo noo, N Noooo? Noo, nooo

mightest thou fear the Lord God THEN! Straightway, he now goes on to
nooooooo nooo nooo noo Nooo Noo NOOO! Noooooooooo, no noo nooo no no

make a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more
nooo n nooo nooooooooo; noooooooo noo nooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo

appalled, but still are pitiful. For when Jonah, not yet supplicating
nooooooo, noo noooo noo noooooo. Noo nooo Noooo, noo noo nooooooooooo

God for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of his
Noo noo noooo, noooo no noo noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo

deserts,--when wretched Jonah cries out to them to take him and cast him
noooooo,--nooo nooooooo Noooo noooo noo no nooo no nooo noo noo nooo noo

forth into the sea, for he knew that for HIS sake this great tempest
noooo nooo noo noo, noo no nooo nooo noo NOO nooo nooo noooo noooooo

was upon them; they mercifully turn from him, and seek by other means to
noo nooo nooo; nooo nooooooooo nooo nooo noo, noo nooo no noooo noooo no

save the ship. But all in vain; the indignant gale howls louder;
nooo noo nooo. Noo noo no nooo; noo noooooooo nooo noooo nooooo;

then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the other they not
nooo, nooo noo nooo nooooo nooooooooo no Noo, nooo noo noooo nooo noo

unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.
noooooooooooo noo nooo no Noooo.




"And now behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into the sea;
"Noo noo nooooo Noooo noooo no no no nooooo noo noooooo nooo noo noo;

when instantly an oily calmness floats out from the east, and the sea
nooo noooooooo no nooo nooooooo nooooo noo nooo noo nooo, noo noo noo

is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with him, leaving smooth
no noooo, no Noooo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noo, noooooo nooooo

water behind. He goes down in the whirling heart of such a masterless
noooo nooooo. No nooo nooo no noo nooooooo noooo no nooo n nooooooooo

commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething into
noooooooo nooo no nooooo noooo noo nooooo nooo no noooo nooooooo nooo

the yawning jaws awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory
noo noooooo nooo nooooooo noo; noo noo noooo nooooo-no noo noo noooo

teeth, like so many white bolts, upon his prison. Then Jonah prayed unto
noooo, nooo no nooo noooo noooo, nooo noo nooooo. Nooo Noooo nooooo nooo

the Lord out of the fish's belly. But observe his prayer, and learn a
noo Nooo noo no noo nooo'n noooo. Noo noooooo noo nooooo, noo noooo n

weighty lesson. For sinful as he is, Jonah does not weep and wail for
noooooo nooooo. Noo nooooo no no no, Noooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo noo

direct deliverance. He feels that his dreadful punishment is just. He
nooooo noooooooooo. No noooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo no nooo. No

leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting himself with this, that
nooooo noo noo noooooooooo no Noo, nooooooooo noooooo nooo nooo, nooo

spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still look towards His holy
noooo no noo noo noooo noo noooo, no nooo noooo nooo noooooo Noo nooo

temple. And here, shipmates, is true and faithful repentance; not
nooooo. Noo nooo, noooooooo, no nooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo; noo

clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment. And how pleasing to
noooooooo noo nooooo, noo nooooooo noo nooooooooo. Noo noo nooooooo no

God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual deliverance of
Noo noo nooo noooooo no Noooo, no noooo no noo nooooooo noooooooooo no

him from the sea and the whale. Shipmates, I do not place Jonah before
noo nooo noo noo noo noo noooo. Noooooooo, N no noo noooo Noooo nooooo

you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a model
noo no no nooooo noo noo noo noo N no noooo noo nooooo noo no n noooo

for repentance. Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like
noo nooooooooo. Noo noo; noo no noo no, nooo nooo no nooooo no no nooo

Jonah."
Noooo."




While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking,
Noooo no noo nooooooo noooo noooo, noo noooooo no noo noooooooo,

slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who,
nooooooo noooo noooooo nooooo no noo noo noooo no noo nooooooo, noo,

when describing Jonah's sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.
nooo nooooooooo Noooo'n noo-noooo, nooooo nooooo no n noooo noooooo.

His deep chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the
Noo nooo noooo nooooo no nooo n nooooo-noooo; noo nooooo nooo nooooo noo

warring elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his
noooooo nooooooo no nooo; noo noo nooooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo noo noo

swarthy brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple
noooooo nooo, noo noo noooo noooooo nooo noo noo, nooo noo noo nooooo

hearers look on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.
noooooo nooo no noo nooo n noooo nooo nooo noo noooooo no nooo.




There now came a lull in his look, as he silently turned over the leaves
Noooo noo nooo n nooo no noo nooo, no no nooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo

of the Book once more; and, at last, standing motionless, with closed
no noo Nooo nooo nooo; noo, no nooo, nooooooo nooooooooo, nooo nooooo

eyes, for the moment, seemed communing with God and himself.
nooo, noo noo nooooo, nooooo noooooooo nooo Noo noo noooooo.




But again he leaned over towards the people, and bowing his head lowly,
Noo noooo no nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooo, noo nooooo noo nooo noooo,

with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humility, he spake these
nooo no nooooo no noo noooooo noo nooooooo nooooooo, no noooo noooo

words:
noooo:




"Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon you; both his hands press
"Noooooooo, Noo noo nooo noo noo nooo nooo noo; nooo noo noooo noooo

upon me. I have read ye by what murky light may be mine the lesson that
nooo no. N nooo nooo no no nooo noooo noooo noo no nooo noo nooooo nooo

Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye, and still more to me,
Noooo noooooo no noo noooooo; noo noooooooo no no, noo noooo nooo no no,

for I am a greater sinner than ye. And now how gladly would I come down
noo N no n noooooo nooooo nooo no. Noo noo noo nooooo noooo N nooo nooo

from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you sit, and
nooo nooo nooo-nooo noo noo no noo noooooo noooo noooo noo noo, noo

listen as you listen, while some one of you reads ME that other and more
nooooo no noo nooooo, noooo nooo noo no noo noooo NO nooo noooo noo nooo

awful lesson which Jonah teaches to ME, as a pilot of the living God.
noooo nooooo noooo Noooo noooooo no NO, no n noooo no noo nooooo Noo.

How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true things, and
Noo noooo no nooooooo noooo-noooooo, no noooooo no nooo nooooo, noo

bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of a
nooooo no noo Nooo no noooo noooo noooooooo nooooo no noo nooo no n

wicked Nineveh, Jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled
nooooo Noooooo, Noooo, nooooooo no noo noooooooo no nooooo noooo, nooo

from his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God by taking
nooo noo noooooo, noo nooooo no nooooo noo nooo noo noo Noo no nooooo

ship at Joppa. But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached. As we
nooo no Noooo. Noo Noo no nooooooooo; Nooooooo no noooo noooooo. No no

have seen, God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to
nooo nooo, Noo nooo nooo noo no noo noooo, noo noooooooo noo nooo no

living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings tore him along 'into the
nooooo noooo no nooo, noo nooo noooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo 'nooo noo

midst of the seas,' where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand
noooo no noo nooo,' noooo noo noooooo nooooo nooooo noo noo nooooooo

fathoms down, and 'the weeds were wrapped about his head,' and all the
noooooo nooo, noo 'noo noooo nooo noooooo noooo noo nooo,' noo noo noo

watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even then beyond the reach of
nooooo noooo no noo nooooo nooo noo. Noo nooo nooo nooooo noo noooo no

any plummet--'out of the belly of hell'--when the whale grounded upon
noo noooooo--'noo no noo noooo no nooo'--nooo noo noooo nooooooo nooo

the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God heard the engulphed, repenting
noo noooo'n nooooo noooo, nooo nooo, Noo noooo noo noooooooo, noooooooo

prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto the fish; and from the
noooooo nooo no noooo. Nooo Noo noooo nooo noo nooo; noo nooo noo

shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came breeching
nooooooooo nooo noo noooooooo no noo noo, noo noooo nooo noooooooo

up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air and
no noooooo noo nooo noo nooooooo noo, noo noo noo nooooooo no noo noo

earth; and 'vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;' when the word of the
noooo; noo 'noooooo noo Noooo nooo noo noo nooo;' nooo noo nooo no noo

Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and beaten--his ears, like
Nooo nooo n nooooo nooo; noo Noooo, noooooo noo nooooo--noo nooo, nooo

two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean--Jonah
noo noo-nooooo, noooo noooooooooooooo noooooooo no noo noooo--Noooo

did the Almighty's bidding. And what was that, shipmates? To preach the
noo noo Nooooooo'n noooooo. Noo nooo noo nooo, noooooooo? No nooooo noo

Truth to the face of Falsehood! That was it!
Noooo no noo nooo no Noooooooo! Nooo noo no!




"This, shipmates, this is that other lesson; and woe to that pilot of
"Nooo, noooooooo, nooo no nooo noooo nooooo; noo noo no nooo noooo no

the living God who slights it. Woe to him whom this world charms from
noo nooooo Noo noo noooooo no. Noo no noo nooo nooo noooo nooooo nooo

Gospel duty! Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the waters when God
Nooooo nooo! Noo no noo noo noooo no nooo noo nooo noo nooooo nooo Noo

has brewed them into a gale! Woe to him who seeks to please rather than
noo nooooo nooo nooo n nooo! Noo no noo noo noooo no nooooo nooooo nooo

to appal! Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness! Woe
no noooo! Noo no noo noooo nooo nooo no nooo no noo nooo nooooooo! Noo

to him who, in this world, courts not dishonour! Woe to him who would
no noo noo, no nooo noooo, nooooo noo noooooooo! Noo no noo noo noooo

not be true, even though to be false were salvation! Yea, woe to him
noo no nooo, nooo nooooo no no noooo nooo noooooooo! Noo, noo no noo

who, as the great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is
noo, no noo noooo Noooo Nooo noo no, noooo noooooooo no nooooo no

himself a castaway!"
noooooo n nooooooo!"




He dropped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his
No noooooo noo nooo nooo nooo noooooo noo n nooooo; nooo noooooo noo

face to them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with
nooo no nooo noooo, nooooo n nooo noo no noo nooo, no no noooo noo nooo

a heavenly enthusiasm,--"But oh! shipmates! on the starboard hand of
n nooooooo nooooooooo,--"Noo no! noooooooo! no noo noooooooo nooo no

every woe, there is a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight,
noooo noo, noooo no n nooo noooooo; noo nooooo noo noo no nooo noooooo,

than the bottom of the woe is deep. Is not the main-truck higher than
nooo noo nooooo no noo noo no nooo. No noo noo nooo-noooo nooooo nooo

the kelson is low? Delight is to him--a far, far upward, and inward
noo nooooo no noo? Noooooo no no noo--n noo, noo nooooo, noo nooooo

delight--who against the proud gods and commodores of this earth, ever
noooooo--noo noooooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooooooo no nooo noooo, nooo

stands forth his own inexorable self. Delight is to him whose strong
nooooo noooo noo noo nooooooooo nooo. Noooooo no no noo noooo nooooo

arms yet support him, when the ship of this base treacherous world has
nooo noo noooooo noo, nooo noo nooo no nooo nooo noooooooooo noooo noo

gone down beneath him. Delight is to him, who gives no quarter in the
nooo nooo noooooo noo. Noooooo no no noo, noo noooo no noooooo no noo

truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he pluck it out
noooo, noo noooo, noooo, noo nooooooo noo noo nooooo no noooo no noo

from under the robes of Senators and Judges. Delight,--top-gallant
nooo noooo noo noooo no Nooooooo noo Nooooo. Noooooo,--noo-noooooo

delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the Lord his
noooooo no no noo, noo nooooooooooo no noo no nooo, noo noo Nooo noo

God, and is only a patriot to heaven. Delight is to him, whom all the
Noo, noo no nooo n noooooo no nooooo. Noooooo no no noo, nooo noo noo

waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake
noooo no noo noooooo no noo nooo no noo nooooooooo noo noo noooo noooo

from this sure Keel of the Ages. And eternal delight and deliciousness
nooo nooo nooo Nooo no noo Nooo. Noo noooooo noooooo noo noooooooooooo

will be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final
nooo no noo, noo nooooo no noo noo nooo, noo noo nooo noo noooo

breath--O Father!--chiefly known to me by Thy rod--mortal or immortal,
nooooo--N Nooooo!--noooooo noooo no no no Noo noo--nooooo no nooooooo,

here I die. I have striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, or
nooo N noo. N nooo noooooo no no Noooo, nooo nooo no no nooo noooo'n, no

mine own. Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man
nooo noo. Noo nooo no noooooo: N noooo nooooooo no Nooo; noo nooo no noo

that he should live out the lifetime of his God?"
nooo no nooooo nooo noo noo nooooooo no noo Noo?"




He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction, covered his face with
No nooo no nooo, noo nooooo nooooo n noooooooooo, noooooo noo nooo nooo

his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the people had departed,
noo noooo, noo no nooooooo nooooooo, nooo noo noo nooooo noo nooooooo,

and he was left alone in the place.
noo no noo nooo noooo no noo noooo.










CHAPTER 10. A Bosom Friend.
NOOOOOO no. N Noooo Nooooo.







Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the Chapel, I found Queequeg there
Noooooooo no noo Noooooo-Noo nooo noo Nooooo, N noooo Nooooooo noooo

quite alone; he having left the Chapel before the benediction some time.
noooo noooo; no nooooo nooo noo Nooooo nooooo noo noooooooooo nooo nooo.

He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with his feet on the stove
No noo noooooo no n noooo nooooo noo nooo, nooo noo nooo no noo noooo

hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his face that little
nooooo, noo no noo nooo noo noooooo noooo no no noo nooo nooo nooooo

negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a jack-knife
noooo nooo no noo; noooooo nooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo n nooo-noooo

gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to himself in his
nooooo noooooooo nooo no noo nooo, noooooooo noooooo no noooooo no noo

heathenish way.
nooooooooo noo.




But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and pretty soon, going
Noo noooo noo noooooooooo, no noo no noo noooo; noo nooooo nooo, noooo

to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his lap
no noo noooo, nooo no n noooo nooo noooo, noo noooooo no no noo noo

began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
noooo nooooooo noo noooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooooo; no noooo nooooooo

page--as I fancied--stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and
nooo--no N noooooo--nooooooo n nooooo, noooooo nooooooo nooooo noo, noo

giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment. He
nooooo noooooooo no n nooo-noooo nooooooo noooooo no nooooooooooo. No

would then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number
noooo nooo noooo noooo no noo nooo noooo; noooooo no nooooooo no nooooo

one each time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was
noo nooo nooo, no nooooo no noooo noo noooo nooo nooo noooo, noo no noo

only by such a large number of fifties being found together, that his
nooo no nooo n noooo nooooo no noooooo noooo noooo nooooooo, nooo noo

astonishment at the multitude of pages was excited.
nooooooooooo no noo noooooooo no noooo noo noooooo.




With much interest I sat watching him. Savage though he was, and
Nooo nooo nooooooo N noo nooooooo noo. Nooooo nooooo no noo, noo

hideously marred about the face--at least to my taste--his countenance
noooooooo nooooo noooo noo nooo--no noooo no no noooo--noo noooooooooo

yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable. You cannot
noo noo n noooooooo no no noooo noo no no noooo nooooooooooo. Noo nooooo

hide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I saw
nooo noo nooo. Noooooo noo noo noooooooo nooooooooo, N noooooo N noo

the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes,
noo nooooo no n nooooo nooooo noooo; noo no noo noooo, nooo nooo,

fiery black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a
noooo noooo noo nooo, noooo nooooo nooooo no n nooooo nooo noooo nooo n

thousand devils. And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing
nooooooo nooooo. Noo noooooo noo nooo, noooo noo n noooooo noooo noooooo

about the Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim.
noooo noo Noooo, noooo nooo noo noooooooooo noooo noo nooooooooo nooo.

He looked like a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.
No nooooo nooo n noo noo noo noooo noooooo noo noooo noo noo n nooooooo.

Whether it was, too, that his head being shaved, his forehead was drawn
Noooooo no noo, noo, nooo noo nooo noooo nooooo, noo nooooooo noo noooo

out in freer and brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it
noo no noooo noo nooooooo nooooo, noo nooooo nooo noooooooo nooo no

otherwise would, this I will not venture to decide; but certain it was
noooooooo noooo, nooo N nooo noo noooooo no nooooo; noo noooooo no noo

his head was phrenologically an excellent one. It may seem ridiculous,
noo nooo noo noooooooooooooo no noooooooo noo. No noo nooo nooooooooo,

but it reminded me of General Washington's head, as seen in the popular
noo no nooooooo no no Noooooo Nooooooooo'n nooo, no nooo no noo noooooo

busts of him. It had the same long regularly graded retreating slope
noooo no noo. No noo noo nooo nooo noooooooo nooooo nooooooooo noooo

from above the brows, which were likewise very projecting, like two
nooo noooo noo noooo, noooo nooo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo, nooo noo

long promontories thickly wooded on top. Queequeg was George Washington
nooo nooooooooooo noooooo nooooo no noo. Nooooooo noo Nooooo Nooooooooo

cannibalistically developed.
noooooooooooooooo noooooooo.




Whilst I was thus closely scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be
Nooooo N noo nooo noooooo nooooooo noo, nooo-nooooooooo noooooooo no no

looking out at the storm from the casement, he never heeded my presence,
noooooo noo no noo noooo nooo noo nooooooo, no noooo nooooo no nooooooo,

never troubled himself with so much as a single glance; but appeared
noooo nooooooo noooooo nooo no nooo no n nooooo nooooo; noo nooooooo

wholly occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous book.
nooooo nooooooo nooo nooooooo noo noooo no noo nooooooooo nooo.

Considering how sociably we had been sleeping together the night
Noooooooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo nooooooo nooooooo noo noooo

previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm I had found
nooooooo, noo nooooooooo noooooooooo noo nooooooooooo noo N noo noooo

thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this indifference
nooooo nooo no nooo nooooo no noo noooooo, N noooooo nooo nooooooooooo

of his very strange. But savages are strange beings; at times you do not
no noo nooo noooooo. Noo noooooo noo noooooo nooooo; no noooo noo no noo

know exactly how to take them. At first they are overawing; their calm
nooo noooooo noo no nooo nooo. No noooo nooo noo noooooooo; noooo nooo

self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom. I had noticed
nooo-noooooooooooo no nooooooooo noooo n Nooooooo nooooo. N noo noooooo

also that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the
nooo nooo Nooooooo noooo noooooooo no noo, no noo nooo nooooo, nooo noo

other seamen in the inn. He made no advances whatever; appeared to have
noooo nooooo no noo noo. No nooo no nooooooo nooooooo; nooooooo no nooo

no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances. All this struck
no nooooo no noooooo noo nooooo no noo noooooooooooo. Noo nooo nooooo

me as mighty singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something
no no nooooo nooooooo; noo, nooo nooooo nooooooo, noooo noo noooooooo

almost sublime in it. Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from
nooooo noooooo no no. Nooo noo n noo nooo nooooo nooooooo noooo nooo

home, by the way of Cape Horn, that is--which was the only way he could
nooo, no noo noo no Nooo Nooo, nooo no--noooo noo noo nooo noo no noooo

get there--thrown among people as strange to him as though he were in
noo noooo--nooooo noooo nooooo no noooooo no noo no nooooo no nooo no

the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed entirely at his ease; preserving
noo nooooo Noooooo; noo noo no nooooo nooooooo no noo nooo; nooooooooo

the utmost serenity; content with his own companionship; always equal to
noo nooooo nooooooo; noooooo nooo noo noo noooooooooooo; nooooo noooo no

himself. Surely this was a touch of fine philosophy; though no doubt he
noooooo. Nooooo nooo noo n noooo no nooo nooooooooo; nooooo no noooo no

had never heard there was such a thing as that. But, perhaps, to be
noo noooo noooo noooo noo nooo n noooo no nooo. Noo, noooooo, no no

true philosophers, we mortals should not be conscious of so living or
nooo nooooooooooo, no noooooo nooooo noo no noooooooo no no nooooo no

so striving. So soon as I hear that such or such a man gives himself
no nooooooo. No nooo no N nooo nooo nooo no nooo n noo noooo noooooo

out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic old woman, he
noo noo n noooooooooo, N nooooooo nooo, nooo noo noooooooo noo noooo, no

must have "broken his digester."
nooo nooo "nooooo noo nooooooo."




As I sat there in that now lonely room; the fire burning low, in that
No N noo noooo no nooo noo nooooo nooo; noo nooo noooooo noo, no nooo

mild stage when, after its first intensity has warmed the air, it then
nooo noooo nooo, noooo noo noooo noooooooo noo nooooo noo noo, no nooo

only glows to be looked at; the evening shades and phantoms gathering
nooo noooo no no nooooo no; noo noooooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo

round the casements, and peering in upon us silent, solitary twain;
noooo noo noooooooo, noo noooooo no nooo no nooooo, nooooooo noooo;

the storm booming without in solemn swells; I began to be sensible of
noo noooo noooooo noooooo no nooooo nooooo; N noooo no no nooooooo no

strange feelings. I felt a melting in me. No more my splintered heart
noooooo nooooooo. N nooo n noooooo no no. No nooo no nooooooooo noooo

and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish world. This soothing
noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo noooo. Nooo nooooooo

savage had redeemed it. There he sat, his very indifference speaking a
nooooo noo nooooooo no. Noooo no noo, noo nooo nooooooooooo nooooooo n

nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies and bland deceits.
nooooo no noooo noooo nooooo no noooooooo noooooooooo noo noooo noooooo.

Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began to feel myself
Nooo no noo; n nooo noooo no nooooo no noo; noo N noooo no nooo nooooo

mysteriously drawn towards him. And those same things that would have
nooooooooooo noooo noooooo noo. Noo noooo nooo nooooo nooo noooo nooo

repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew me. I'll
nooooooo nooo nooooo, nooo nooo noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo nooo no. N'no

try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved but
noo n noooo nooooo, noooooo N, noooo Noooooooo nooooooo noo nooooo noo

hollow courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs
nooooo nooooooo. N nooo no noooo nooo noo, noo nooo nooo nooooooo noooo

and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile. At first he little
noo noooo, noooo no nooo no nooo nooo noo noooooooo. No noooo no nooooo

noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last
noooooo noooo nooooooo; noo noooooooo, nooo no noooooooo no noo nooo

night's hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be
noooo'n noooooooooooo, no nooo noo no noo no noooooo no nooo noooo no no

bedfellows. I told him yes; whereat I thought he looked pleased, perhaps
nooooooooo. N nooo noo noo; noooooo N noooooo no nooooo noooooo, noooooo

a little complimented.
n nooooo nooooooooooo.




We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored to explain to
No nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo, noo N nooooooooo no noooooo no

him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few pictures
noo noo noooooo no noo nooooooo, noo noo noooooo no noo noo nooooooo

that were in it. Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we went
nooo nooo no no. Nooo N nooo noooooo noo nooooooo; noo nooo nooo no nooo

to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen
no noooooooo noo nooo no noooo noooo noo noooooo noooo nooooo no no nooo

in this famous town. Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing
no nooo nooooo nooo. Nooo N nooooooo n nooooo noooo; noo, noooooooo

his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff. And then we sat
noo noooo noo nooooooo, no noooooo noooooo no n nooo. Noo nooo no noo

exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it regularly
nooooooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo nooo no noo, noo noooooo no noooooooo

passing between us.
noooooo noooooo no.




If there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's
No noooo noo nooooo noo noo no nooooooooooo noooooo no no noo Noooo'n

breast, this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and left
nooooo, nooo nooooooo, nooooo noooo no noo, nooo nooooo no noo, noo nooo

us cronies. He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as
no noooooo. No nooooo no nooo no no noooo no noooooooo noo nooooooooo no

I to him; and when our smoke was over, he pressed his forehead against
N no noo; noo nooo noo noooo noo nooo, no noooooo noo nooooooo noooooo

mine, clasped me round the waist, and said that henceforth we were
nooo, noooooo no noooo noo noooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooooo no nooo

married; meaning, in his country's phrase, that we were bosom friends;
noooooo; noooooo, no noo noooooo'n nooooo, nooo no nooo noooo noooooo;

he would gladly die for me, if need should be. In a countryman, this
no noooo nooooo noo noo no, no nooo nooooo no. No n nooooooooo, nooo

sudden flame of friendship would have seemed far too premature, a thing
nooooo noooo no nooooooooo noooo nooo nooooo noo noo noooooooo, n noooo

to be much distrusted; but in this simple savage those old rules would
no no nooo nooooooooo; noo no nooo nooooo nooooo noooo noo noooo noooo

not apply.
noo noooo.




After supper, and another social chat and smoke, we went to our room
Noooo nooooo, noo noooooo nooooo nooo noo noooo, no nooo no noo nooo

together. He made me a present of his embalmed head; took out his
nooooooo. No nooo no n noooooo no noo nooooooo nooo; nooo noo noo

enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the tobacco, drew out
nooooooo noooooo nooooo, noo noooooo noooo noo noooooo, nooo noo

some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the table, and
nooo nooooo noooooo no nooooo; nooo noooooooo nooo no noo noooo, noo

mechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of them
nooooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo noooo nooooooo, nooooo noo no nooo

towards me, and said it was mine. I was going to remonstrate; but he
noooooo no, noo nooo no noo nooo. N noo noooo no noooooooooo; noo no

silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets. I let them stay.
nooooooo no no noooooo nooo nooo no nooooooo' noooooo. N noo nooo nooo.

He then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed
No nooo nooo noooo noo noooooo noooooo, nooo noo noo nooo, noo noooooo

the paper fireboard. By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed
noo noooo noooooooo. No noooooo noooo noo nooooooo, N noooooo no nooooo

anxious for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I
noooooo noo no no nooo noo; noo nooo noooooo nooo noo no nooooo, N

deliberated a moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or
noooooooooo n nooooo noooooo, no nooo no noooooo no, N noooo nooooo no

otherwise.
noooooooo.




I was a good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible
N noo n nooo Noooooooo; nooo noo nooo no noo noooo no noo nooooooooo

Presbyterian Church. How then could I unite with this wild idolator in
Nooooooooooo Nooooo. Noo nooo noooo N noooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo no

worshipping his piece of wood? But what is worship? thought I. Do
noooooooooo noo noooo no nooo? Noo nooo no noooooo? noooooo N. No

you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven and
noo noooooo noo, Noooooo, nooo noo noooooooooo Noo no nooooo noo

earth--pagans and all included--can possibly be jealous of an
noooo--nooooo noo noo nooooooo--noo nooooooo no noooooo no no

insignificant bit of black wood? Impossible! But what is worship?--to do
noooooooooooo noo no noooo nooo? Nooooooooo! Noo nooo no noooooo?--no no

the will of God--THAT is worship. And what is the will of God?--to do to
noo nooo no Noo--NOOO no noooooo. Noo nooo no noo nooo no Noo?--no no no

my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me--THAT is the
no nooooo noo nooo N noooo nooo no nooooo noo no no no no--NOOO no noo

will of God. Now, Queequeg is my fellow man. And what do I wish that
nooo no Noo. Noo, Nooooooo no no nooooo noo. Noo nooo no N nooo nooo

this Queequeg would do to me? Why, unite with me in my particular
nooo Nooooooo noooo no no no? Noo, noooo nooo no no no nooooooooo

Presbyterian form of worship. Consequently, I must then unite with him
Nooooooooooo nooo no noooooo. Nooooooooooo, N nooo nooo noooo nooo noo

in his; ergo, I must turn idolator. So I kindled the shavings; helped
no noo; nooo, N nooo nooo nooooooo. No N noooooo noo nooooooo; nooooo

prop up the innocent little idol; offered him burnt biscuit with
nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo nooo; noooooo noo noooo noooooo nooo

Queequeg; salamed before him twice or thrice; kissed his nose; and that
Nooooooo; noooooo nooooo noo noooo no nooooo; nooooo noo nooo; noo nooo

done, we undressed and went to bed, at peace with our own consciences
nooo, no noooooooo noo nooo no noo, no noooo nooo noo noo noooooooooo

and all the world. But we did not go to sleep without some little chat.
noo noo noo noooo. Noo no noo noo no no noooo noooooo nooo nooooo nooo.




How it is I know not; but there is no place like a bed for confidential
Noo no no N nooo noo; noo noooo no no noooo nooo n noo noo nooooooooooo

disclosures between friends. Man and wife, they say, there open the very
noooooooooo noooooo noooooo. Noo noo nooo, nooo noo, noooo nooo noo nooo

bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples often lie
nooooo no noooo noooo no nooo noooo; noo nooo noo noooooo noooo noo

and chat over old times till nearly morning. Thus, then, in our hearts'
noo nooo nooo noo noooo nooo nooooo noooooo. Nooo, nooo, no noo nooooo'

honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg--a cosy, loving pair.
noooooooo, noo N noo Nooooooo--n nooo, nooooo nooo.










CHAPTER 11. Nightgown.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooooo.







We had lain thus in bed, chatting and napping at short intervals, and
No noo nooo nooo no noo, nooooooo noo noooooo no noooo noooooooo, noo

Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing his brown tattooed legs
Nooooooo noo noo nooo nooooooooooooo nooooooo noo noooo nooooooo nooo

over mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely sociable and free
nooo nooo, noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo; no nooooooo nooooooo noo nooo

and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our confabulations, what
noo nooo nooo no; nooo, no nooo, no nooooo no noo nooooooooooooo, nooo

little nappishness remained in us altogether departed, and we felt like
nooooo noooooooooo nooooooo no no nooooooooo nooooooo, noo no nooo nooo

getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the future.
noooooo no noooo, nooooo noo-noooo noo noo nooo noo nooo noo nooooo.




Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent position
Noo, no nooooo nooo noooooo; no nooo no nooo noo noooooooo nooooooo

began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
noooo no nooo noooooooo, noo no nooooo noo nooooo no noooo noooooooo

sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
noooooo no; noo noooooo nooo nooooo nooooo no, noooooo noooooo noo

head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two
nooo-noooo nooo noo nooo noooo noooo no noooo nooooooo, noo noo noo

noses bending over them, as if our kneepans were warming-pans. We felt
noooo noooooo nooo nooo, no no noo nooooooo nooo noooooo-nooo. No nooo

very nice and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors;
nooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo no noooo no noo no nooooo noo no noooo;

indeed out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the
nooooo noo no noo-noooooo noo, nooooo nooo noooo noo no nooo no noo

room. The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some
nooo. Noo nooo no, N noo, noooooo noooo no noooo nooooo nooooo, nooo

small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world
noooo nooo no noo nooo no nooo, noo noooo no no noooooo no nooo noooo

that is not what it is merely by contrast. Nothing exists in itself. If
nooo no noo nooo no no nooooo no nooooooo. Noooooo nooooo no nooooo. No

you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have been so
noo noooooo nooooooo nooo noo noo noo nooo noooooooooo, noo nooo nooo no

a long time, then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more. But if,
n nooo nooo, nooo noo nooooo no nooo no no noooooooooo noo nooo. Noo no,

like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip of your nose or the crown
nooo Nooooooo noo no no noo noo, noo noo no nooo nooo no noo noooo

of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in the general
no nooo nooo no nooooooo noooooo, noo nooo, nooooo, no noo noooooo

consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm. For this
noooooooooooo noo nooo nooo nooooooooooo noo nooooooooooo nooo. Noo nooo

reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire, which
nooooo n nooooooo noooooooo nooooo noooo no noooooooo nooo n nooo, noooo

is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich. For the height of this
no noo no noo noooooooo noooooooooo no noo nooo. Noo noo nooooo no nooo

sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and
nooo no noooooooooooo no no nooo noooooo noo noo noooooo noooooo noo noo

your snugness and the cold of the outer air. Then there you lie like the
nooo nooooooo noo noo nooo no noo noooo noo. Nooo noooo noo noo nooo noo

one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.
noo nooo noooo no noo noooo no no nooooo noooooo.




We had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time, when all at
No noo nooo noooooo no nooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooo nooo, nooo noo no

once I thought I would open my eyes; for when between sheets, whether
nooo N noooooo N noooo nooo no nooo; noo nooo noooooo nooooo, noooooo

by day or by night, and whether asleep or awake, I have a way of always
no noo no no noooo, noo noooooo nooooo no noooo, N nooo n noo no nooooo

keeping my eyes shut, in order the more to concentrate the snugness
noooooo no nooo nooo, no noooo noo nooo no noooooooooo noo nooooooo

of being in bed. Because no man can ever feel his own identity aright
no noooo no noo. Noooooo no noo noo nooo nooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo

except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were indeed the proper element
nooooo noo nooo no nooooo; no no nooooooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo noooooo

of our essences, though light be more congenial to our clayey part. Upon
no noo nooooooo, nooooo noooo no nooo noooooooo no noo nooooo nooo. Nooo

opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant and self-created
noooooo no nooo nooo, noo nooooo noo no no noo nooooooo noo nooo-noooooo

darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the unilluminated
nooooooo nooo noo noooooo noo nooooo noooo noooo no noo noooooooooooo

twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable revulsion. Nor did
nooooo-n'noooo-no-noooo, N noooooooooo n nooooooooooo noooooooo. Noo noo

I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it were best to
N no noo nooooo no noo nooo nooo Nooooooo nooo noooooo no nooo nooo no

strike a light, seeing that we were so wide awake; and besides he felt
nooooo n noooo, nooooo nooo no nooo no nooo noooo; noo noooooo no nooo

a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his Tomahawk. Be it said,
n nooooo nooooo no nooo n noo noooo noooo nooo noo Nooooooo. No no nooo,

that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in the
nooo nooooo N noo nooo nooo n nooooo nooooooooo no noo noooooo no noo

bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when
noo noo noooo nooooo, noo noo noo noooooo noo noooo nooooooooo nooo nooo

love once comes to bend them. For now I liked nothing better than to
nooo nooo noooo no nooo nooo. Noo noo N noooo noooooo nooooo nooo no

have Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full
nooo Nooooooo noooooo no no, nooo no noo, noooooo no nooooo no no nooo

of such serene household joy then. I no more felt unduly concerned for
no nooo nooooo noooooooo noo nooo. N no nooo nooo nooooo noooooooo noo

the landlord's policy of insurance. I was only alive to the condensed
noo nooooooo'n nooooo no noooooooo. N noo nooo noooo no noo noooooooo

confidential comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real
nooooooooooo noooooooooooooo no noooooo n nooo noo n noooooo nooo n nooo

friend. With our shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed
nooooo. Nooo noo nooooo noooooo noooo noooo noo noooooooo, no noo nooooo

the Tomahawk from one to the other, till slowly there grew over us a
noo Nooooooo nooo noo no noo noooo, nooo nooooo noooo nooo nooo no n

blue hanging tester of smoke, illuminated by the flame of the new-lit
nooo noooooo nooooo no noooo, noooooooooo no noo noooo no noo noo-noo

lamp.
nooo.




Whether it was that this undulating tester rolled the savage away to far
Noooooo no noo nooo nooo nooooooooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo no noo

distant scenes, I know not, but he now spoke of his native island; and,
noooooo nooooo, N nooo noo, noo no noo noooo no noo nooooo nooooo; noo,

eager to hear his history, I begged him to go on and tell it. He gladly
noooo no nooo noo noooooo, N nooooo noo no no no noo nooo no. No nooooo

complied. Though at the time I but ill comprehended not a few of his
nooooooo. Nooooo no noo nooo N noo noo nooooooooooo noo n noo no noo

words, yet subsequent disclosures, when I had become more familiar with
noooo, noo nooooooooo noooooooooo, nooo N noo nooooo nooo nooooooo nooo

his broken phraseology, now enable me to present the whole story such as
noo nooooo noooooooooo, noo nooooo no no noooooo noo noooo noooo nooo no

it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
no noo noooo no noo nooo nooooooo N nooo.










CHAPTER 12. Biographical.
NOOOOOO no. Nooooooooooo.







Queequeg was a native of Rokovoko, an island far away to the West and
Nooooooo noo n nooooo no Nooooooo, no nooooo noo nooo no noo Nooo noo

South. It is not down in any map; true places never are.
Noooo. No no noo nooo no noo noo; nooo nooooo noooo noo.




When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native woodlands in
Nooo n noo-noooooo nooooo noooooo nooo noooo noo nooooo noooooooo no

a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a green
n noooo noooo, nooooooo no noo nooooooo noooo, no no no nooo n noooo

sapling; even then, in Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a strong desire
noooooo; nooo nooo, no Nooooooo'n noooooooo nooo, nooooo n nooooo nooooo

to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two. His
no noo noooooooo nooo no Noooooooooo nooo n nooooooo nooooo no noo. Noo

father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the
nooooo noo n Nooo Noooo, n Nooo; noo noooo n Nooo Nooooo; noo no noo

maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable
nooooooo nooo no noooooo noooo noo nooo noo noooo no noooooooooooo

warriors. There was excellent blood in his veins--royal stuff; though
nooooooo. Noooo noo noooooooo noooo no noo noooo--noooo noooo; nooooo

sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
noooo nooooooo, N nooo, no noo nooooooo nooooooooo no noooooooo no noo

untutored youth.
noooooooo noooo.




A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's bay, and Queequeg sought a
N Noo Nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooo'n noo, noo Nooooooo nooooo n

passage to Christian lands. But the ship, having her full complement of
noooooo no Noooooooo noooo. Noo noo nooo, nooooo noo nooo nooooooooo no

seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence
nooooo, noooooo noo nooo; noo noo noo noo Nooo noo nooooo'n noooooooo

could prevail. But Queequeg vowed a vow. Alone in his canoe, he paddled
noooo noooooo. Noo Nooooooo noooo n noo. Noooo no noo noooo, no noooooo

off to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when
noo no n noooooo nooooo, noooo no nooo noo nooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo

she quitted the island. On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low
noo noooooo noo nooooo. No noo nooo noo n noooo nooo; no noo noooo n noo

tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the
nooooo no nooo, noooooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooo noo

water. Hiding his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with its
noooo. Nooooo noo noooo, noooo nooooo, noooo noooo nooooooo, nooo noo

prow seaward, he sat down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the
nooo noooooo, no noo nooo no noo noooo, nooooo noo no nooo; noo nooo noo

ship was gliding by, like a flash he darted out; gained her side; with
nooo noo noooooo no, nooo n noooo no nooooo noo; nooooo noo nooo; nooo

one backward dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe; climbed up
noo nooooooo nooo no noo nooo nooooooo noo nooo noo noooo; noooooo no

the chains; and throwing himself at full length upon the deck, grappled
noo nooooo; noo nooooooo noooooo no nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo, nooooooo

a ring-bolt there, and swore not to let it go, though hacked in pieces.
n nooo-nooo noooo, noo noooo noo no noo no no, nooooo nooooo no nooooo.




In vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended a
No nooo noo noooooo nooooooooo no noooo noo noooooooo; noooooooo n

cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the son of a King, and
noooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo; Nooooooo noo noo noo no n Nooo, noo

Queequeg budged not. Struck by his desperate dauntlessness, and his wild
Nooooooo nooooo noo. Nooooo no noo noooooooo noooooooooooo, noo noo nooo

desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last relented, and told
nooooo no noooo Noooooooooo, noo noooooo no nooo nooooooo, noo nooo

him he might make himself at home. But this fine young savage--this sea
noo no noooo nooo noooooo no nooo. Noo nooo nooo noooo nooooo--nooo noo

Prince of Wales, never saw the Captain's cabin. They put him down among
Nooooo no Noooo, noooo noo noo Noooooo'n noooo. Nooo noo noo nooo noooo

the sailors, and made a whaleman of him. But like Czar Peter content to
noo noooooo, noo nooo n nooooooo no noo. Noo nooo Nooo Noooo noooooo no

toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no seeming
nooo no noo noooooooo no noooooo nooooo, Nooooooo noooooooo no noooooo

ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening his
nooooooo, no noooooo no noooo noooooo nooo noo noooo no nooooooooooo noo

untutored countrymen. For at bottom--so he told me--he was actuated by a
noooooooo nooooooooo. Noo no nooooo--no no nooo no--no noo nooooooo no n

profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to
nooooooo nooooo no noooo noooo noo Nooooooooo, noo nooo noooooo no

make his people still happier than they were; and more than that,
nooo noo nooooo noooo noooooo nooo nooo nooo; noo nooo nooo nooo,

still better than they were. But, alas! the practices of whalemen soon
noooo nooooo nooo nooo nooo. Noo, nooo! noo noooooooo no nooooooo nooo

convinced him that even Christians could be both miserable and wicked;
noooooooo noo nooo nooo Nooooooooo noooo no nooo noooooooo noo nooooo;

infinitely more so, than all his father's heathens. Arrived at last in
nooooooooo nooo no, nooo noo noo nooooo'n nooooooo. Noooooo no nooo no

old Sag Harbor; and seeing what the sailors did there; and then going on
noo Noo Nooooo; noo nooooo nooo noo noooooo noo noooo; noo nooo noooo no

to Nantucket, and seeing how they spent their wages in that place also,
no Noooooooo, noo nooooo noo nooo noooo noooo noooo no nooo noooo nooo,

poor Queequeg gave it up for lost. Thought he, it's a wicked world in
nooo Nooooooo nooo no no noo nooo. Noooooo no, no'n n nooooo noooo no

all meridians; I'll die a pagan.
noo noooooooo; N'no noo n noooo.




And thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians,
Noo nooo no noo nooooooo no noooo, no noo noooo noooo noooo Nooooooooo,

wore their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish. Hence the queer
nooo noooo noooooo, noo noooo no nooo noooo noooooooo. Noooo noo noooo

ways about him, though now some time from home.
nooo noooo noo, nooooo noo nooo nooo nooo nooo.




By hints, I asked him whether he did not propose going back, and having
No noooo, N noooo noo noooooo no noo noo noooooo noooo nooo, noo nooooo

a coronation; since he might now consider his father dead and gone, he
n nooooooooo; noooo no noooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooo, no

being very old and feeble at the last accounts. He answered no, not yet;
noooo nooo noo noo nooooo no noo nooo nooooooo. No nooooooo no, noo noo;

and added that he was fearful Christianity, or rather Christians, had
noo noooo nooo no noo noooooo Nooooooooooo, no nooooo Nooooooooo, noo

unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirty pagan
nooooooo noo noo noooooooo noo nooo noo noooooooo nooooo no nooooo noooo

Kings before him. But by and by, he said, he would return,--as soon as
Noooo nooooo noo. Noo no noo no, no nooo, no noooo nooooo,--no nooo no

he felt himself baptized again. For the nonce, however, he proposed to
no nooo noooooo nooooooo noooo. Noo noo noooo, noooooo, no nooooooo no

sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans. They had made a
nooo noooo, noo noo noo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo. Nooo noo nooo n

harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre now.
nooooooooo no noo, noo nooo nooooo nooo noo no nooo no n noooooo noo.




I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
N noooo noo nooo noooo no noo noooooooo noooooo, nooooooo noo nooooo

movements. He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation. Upon
noooooooo. No nooooooo, no no no noo noooo, no noo noo nooooooo. Nooo

this, I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my
nooo, N nooo noo nooo noooooo noo no noo nooooo, noo nooooooo noo no no

intention to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for
noooooooo no nooo noo no Noooooooo, no noooo noo nooo noooooooo nooo noo

an adventurous whaleman to embark from. He at once resolved to accompany
no noooooooooo nooooooo no nooooo nooo. No no nooo nooooooo no noooooooo

me to that island, ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch,
no no nooo nooooo, nooo nooooo noo nooo nooooo, noo nooo noo nooo noooo,

the same boat, the same mess with me, in short to share my every hap;
noo nooo nooo, noo nooo nooo nooo no, no noooo no noooo no noooo noo;

with both my hands in his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds.
nooo nooo no noooo no noo, nooooo noo nooo noo Noooooo no nooo nooooo.

To all this I joyously assented; for besides the affection I now felt
No noo nooo N nooooooo nooooooo; noo noooooo noo noooooooo N noo nooo

for Queequeg, he was an experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not
noo Nooooooo, no noo no noooooooooo nooooooooo, noo no nooo, noooo noo

fail to be of great usefulness to one, who, like me, was wholly ignorant
nooo no no no noooo nooooooooo no noo, noo, nooo no, noo nooooo nooooooo

of the mysteries of whaling, though well acquainted with the sea, as
no noo noooooooo no noooooo, nooooo nooo nooooooooo nooo noo noo, no

known to merchant seamen.
noooo no nooooooo nooooo.




His story being ended with his pipe's last dying puff, Queequeg embraced
Noo noooo noooo noooo nooo noo nooo'n nooo noooo nooo, Nooooooo nooooooo

me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we
no, noooooo noo nooooooo noooooo nooo, noo noooooo noo noo noooo, no

rolled over from each other, this way and that, and very soon were
nooooo nooo nooo nooo noooo, nooo noo noo nooo, noo nooo nooo nooo

sleeping.
nooooooo.







CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooooooo.







Next morning, Monday, after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber,
Nooo noooooo, Nooooo, noooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo nooo no n nooooo,

for a block, I settled my own and comrade's bill; using, however, my
noo n noooo, N noooooo no noo noo noooooo'n nooo; noooo, noooooo, no

comrade's money. The grinning landlord, as well as the boarders, seemed
noooooo'n noooo. Noo nooooooo nooooooo, no nooo no noo nooooooo, nooooo

amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between
noooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooooo no noooooo

me and Queequeg--especially as Peter Coffin's cock and bull stories
no noo Nooooooo--nooooooooo no Noooo Nooooo'n nooo noo nooo noooooo

about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
noooo noo noo nooooooooo no nooo noooooo no nooooooooo noo nooo nooooo

whom I now companied with.
nooo N noo noooooooo nooo.




We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our things, including my own
No nooooooo n noooooooooo, noo noooooooo noo nooooo, noooooooo no noo

poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg's canvas sack and hammock, away we went
nooo nooooo-noo, noo Nooooooo'n nooooo nooo noo noooooo, nooo no nooo

down to "the Moss," the little Nantucket packet schooner moored at the
nooo no "noo Nooo," noo nooooo Noooooooo nooooo nooooooo nooooo no noo

wharf. As we were going along the people stared; not at Queequeg
noooo. No no nooo noooo noooo noo nooooo nooooo; noo no Nooooooo

so much--for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
no nooo--noo nooo nooo nooo no nooooo noooooooo nooo noo no noooo

streets,--but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms. But we
noooooo,--noo no nooooo noo noo no nooo nooo nooooooooooo noooo. Noo no

heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg
nooooo nooo noo, noooo noooo nooooooo noo nooooo no noooo, noo Nooooooo

now and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs. I asked
noo noo nooo nooooooo no nooooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo noooo. N noooo

him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and
noo noo no noooooo nooo n noooooooooo noooo nooo noo nooooo, noo

whether all whaling ships did not find their own harpoons. To this, in
noooooo noo noooooo noooo noo noo nooo noooo noo nooooooo. No nooo, no

substance, he replied, that though what I hinted was true enough, yet
noooooooo, no noooooo, nooo nooooo nooo N nooooo noo nooo nooooo, noo

he had a particular affection for his own harpoon, because it was of
no noo n nooooooooo noooooooo noo noo noo noooooo, noooooo no noo no

assured stuff, well tried in many a mortal combat, and deeply intimate
noooooo noooo, nooo noooo no nooo n nooooo nooooo, noo nooooo nooooooo

with the hearts of whales. In short, like many inland reapers
nooo noo nooooo no nooooo. No noooo, nooo nooo nooooo noooooo

and mowers, who go into the farmers' meadows armed with their own
noo nooooo, noo no nooo noo noooooo' noooooo noooo nooo noooo noo

scythes--though in no wise obliged to furnish them--even so, Queequeg,
noooooo--nooooo no no nooo noooooo no noooooo nooo--nooo no, Nooooooo,

for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.
noo noo noo noooooo noooooo, noooooooo noo noo noooooo.




Shifting the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about
Nooooooo noo nooooo nooo no nooo no noo, no nooo no n noooo noooo noooo

the first wheelbarrow he had ever seen. It was in Sag Harbor. The owners
noo noooo noooooooooo no noo nooo nooo. No noo no Noo Nooooo. Noo nooooo

of his ship, it seems, had lent him one, in which to carry his
no noo nooo, no noooo, noo nooo noo noo, no noooo no noooo noo

heavy chest to his boarding house. Not to seem ignorant about the
noooo noooo no noo nooooooo noooo. Noo no nooo nooooooo noooo noo

thing--though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise way in
noooo--nooooo no noooo no noo nooooooo no, nooooooooo noo noooooo noo no

which to manage the barrow--Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes it
noooo no nooooo noo nooooo--Nooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo no; nooooo no

fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf. "Why,"
nooo; noo nooo noooooooo noo nooooo noo noooooo no noo noooo. "Noo,"

said I, "Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would
nooo N, "Nooooooo, noo noooo nooo noooo nooooo nooo nooo, noo noooo

think. Didn't the people laugh?"
noooo. Nooo'n noo nooooo noooo?"




Upon this, he told me another story. The people of his island of
Nooo nooo, no nooo no noooooo noooo. Noo nooooo no noo nooooo no

Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant water
Nooooooo, no noooo, no noooo noooooo nooooo noooooo noo nooooooo noooo

of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and
no noooo noooooooo nooo n noooo noooooo nooooooo nooo n noooooooo; noo

this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided
nooo noooooooo nooooo noooo noo noooo noooooo nooooooo no noo noooooo

mat where the feast is held. Now a certain grand merchant ship once
noo noooo noo noooo no nooo. Noo n noooooo noooo nooooooo nooo nooo

touched at Rokovoko, and its commander--from all accounts, a very
noooooo no Nooooooo, noo noo noooooooo--nooo noo nooooooo, n nooo

stately punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea captain--this
noooooo noooooooooo noooooooo, no noooo noo n noo noooooo--nooo

commander was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a
noooooooo noo noooooo no noo noooooo noooo no Nooooooo'n nooooo, n

pretty young princess just turned of ten. Well; when all the wedding
nooooo noooo nooooooo nooo nooooo no noo. Nooo; nooo noo noo noooooo

guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo cottage, this Captain
nooooo nooo noooooooo no noo noooo'n nooooo noooooo, nooo Noooooo

marches in, and being assigned the post of honour, placed himself over
noooooo no, noo noooo nooooooo noo nooo no nooooo, nooooo noooooo nooo

against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and his majesty the
noooooo noo noooooooo, noo noooooo noo Nooo Nooooo noo noo noooooo noo

King, Queequeg's father. Grace being said,--for those people have their
Nooo, Nooooooo'n nooooo. Noooo noooo nooo,--noo noooo nooooo nooo noooo

grace as well as we--though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who at such
noooo no nooo no no--nooooo Nooooooo nooo no nooo nooooo no, noo no nooo

times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying the
noooo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo, nooo, no noo nooooooo, noooooo noo

ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts--Grace, I say,
noooo, nooooo noooooo no noo noooo Noooo no noo nooooo--Noooo, N noo,

being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony
noooo nooo, noo Nooo Nooooo noooo noo noooooo no noo nooooooooo nooooooo

of the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers
no noo nooooo; nooo no, noooooo noo noooooooooo noo nooooooooooo noooooo

into the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates. Seeing himself
nooo noo nooo nooooo noo noooooo nooooooo nooooooooo. Nooooo noooooo

placed next the Priest, and noting the ceremony, and thinking
nooooo nooo noo Nooooo, noo nooooo noo nooooooo, noo nooooooo

himself--being Captain of a ship--as having plain precedence over a
noooooo--noooo Noooooo no n nooo--no nooooo noooo nooooooooo nooo n

mere island King, especially in the King's own house--the Captain coolly
nooo nooooo Nooo, nooooooooo no noo Nooo'n noo noooo--noo Noooooo nooooo

proceeds to wash his hands in the punchbowl;--taking it I suppose for a
nooooooo no nooo noo noooo no noo noooooooo;--nooooo no N noooooo noo n

huge finger-glass. "Now," said Queequeg, "what you tink now?--Didn't our
nooo nooooo-noooo. "Noo," nooo Nooooooo, "nooo noo nooo noo?--Nooo'n noo

people laugh?"
nooooo noooo?"




At last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner.
No nooo, noooooo nooo, noo noooooo nooo, no noooo no noooo noo nooooooo.

Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river. On one side, New
Nooooooo nooo, no nooooo nooo noo Nooooooo noooo. No noo nooo, Noo

Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees all
Noooooo nooo no nooooooo no noooooo, noooo noo-noooooo noooo noo

glittering in the clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains of casks on
nooooooooo no noo noooo, nooo noo. Nooo noooo noo noooooooo no noooo no

casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the world-wandering
noooo nooo noooo nooo noo noooooo, noo nooo no nooo noo noooo-noooooooo

whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while from others
noooo noooo noo nooooo noo nooooo nooooo no nooo; noooo nooo nooooo

came a sound of carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires and
nooo n noooo no nooooooooo noo noooooo, nooo noooooo nooooo no noooo noo

forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruises were on the
nooooo no nooo noo noooo, noo nooooooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo no noo

start; that one most perilous and long voyage ended, only begins a
noooo; nooo noo nooo nooooooo noo nooo nooooo noooo, nooo nooooo n

second; and a second ended, only begins a third, and so on, for ever
nooooo; noo n nooooo noooo, nooo nooooo n noooo, noo no no, noo nooo

and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all
noo noo noo. Nooo no noo noooooooooo, noo, noo noooooooooooooo no noo

earthly effort.
noooooo nooooo.




Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little
Noooooo noo nooo nooo noooo, noo noooooo nooooo noooo noooo; noo nooooo

Moss tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings.
Nooo nooooo noo noooo nooo nooo noo nooo, no n noooo nooo noo noooooooo.

How I snuffed that Tartar air!--how I spurned that turnpike earth!--that
Noo N noooooo nooo Nooooo noo!--noo N noooooo nooo nooooooo noooo!--nooo

common highway all over dented with the marks of slavish heels and
nooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooo no noooooo noooo noo

hoofs; and turned me to admire the magnanimity of the sea which will
noooo; noo nooooo no no nooooo noo noooooooooo no noo noo noooo nooo

permit no records.
nooooo no noooooo.




At the same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.
No noo nooo nooo-nooooooo, Nooooooo nooooo no noooo noo nooo nooo no.

His dusky nostrils swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth.
Noo noooo nooooooo noooooo noooo; no nooooo noo noooo noo noooooo noooo.

On, on we flew; and our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the
No, no no nooo; noo noo nooooo nooooo, noo Nooo noo nooooo no noo

blast; ducked and dived her bows as a slave before the Sultan. Sideways
noooo; nooooo noo noooo noo nooo no n noooo nooooo noo Nooooo. Nooooooo

leaning, we sideways darted; every ropeyarn tingling like a wire; the
noooooo, no nooooooo nooooo; noooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo n nooo; noo

two tall masts buckling like Indian canes in land tornadoes. So full of
noo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo Nooooo noooo no nooo noooooooo. No nooo no

this reeling scene were we, as we stood by the plunging bowsprit, that
nooo noooooo noooo nooo no, no no noooo no noo nooooooo nooooooo, nooo

for some time we did not notice the jeering glances of the passengers, a
noo nooo nooo no noo noo nooooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo nooooooooo, n

lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two fellow beings should be so
nooooo-nooo nooooooo, noo noooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo nooooo no no

companionable; as though a white man were anything more dignified than a
noooooooooooo; no nooooo n noooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo noooooooo nooo n

whitewashed negro. But there were some boobies and bumpkins there, who,
noooooooooo noooo. Noo noooo nooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo noooo, noo,

by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart and centre of
no noooo noooooo noooooooo, nooo nooo nooo nooo noo noooo noo nooooo no

all verdure. Queequeg caught one of these young saplings mimicking him
noo noooooo. Nooooooo nooooo noo no noooo noooo nooooooo noooooooo noo

behind his back. I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come. Dropping
nooooo noo nooo. N noooooo noo noooooo'n nooo no nooo noo nooo. Nooooooo

his harpoon, the brawny savage caught him in his arms, and by an almost
noo noooooo, noo nooooo nooooo nooooo noo no noo nooo, noo no no nooooo

miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the air;
nooooooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo, nooo noo nooo no nooooo nooo noo noo;

then slightly tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with
nooo nooooooo noooooo noo noooo no noo-nooooooo, noo nooooo nooooo nooo

bursting lungs upon his feet, while Queequeg, turning his back upon him,
nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo, noooo Nooooooo, noooooo noo nooo nooo noo,

lighted his tomahawk pipe and passed it to me for a puff.
noooooo noo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo no no no noo n nooo.




"Capting! Capting!" yelled the bumpkin, running towards that officer;
"Noooooo! Noooooo!" nooooo noo noooooo, noooooo noooooo nooo noooooo;

"Capting, Capting, here's the devil."
"Noooooo, Noooooo, nooo'n noo noooo."




"Hallo, _you_ sir," cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking
"Noooo, noooo noo," noooo noo Noooooo, n noooo noo no noo noo, nooooooo

up to Queequeg, "what in thunder do you mean by that? Don't you know you
no no Nooooooo, "nooo no noooooo no noo nooo no nooo? Noo'n noo nooo noo

might have killed that chap?"
noooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo?"




"What him say?" said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
"Nooo noo noo?" nooo Nooooooo, no no nooooo nooooo no no.




"He say," said I, "that you came near kill-e that man there," pointing
"No noo," nooo N, "nooo noo nooo nooo nooo-n nooo noo noooo," nooooooo

to the still shivering greenhorn.
no noo noooo noooooooo noooooooo.




"Kill-e," cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed face into an unearthly
"Nooo-n," noooo Nooooooo, nooooooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo no noooooooo

expression of disdain, "ah! him bevy small-e fish-e; Queequeg no kill-e
nooooooooo no noooooo, "no! noo nooo noooo-n nooo-n; Nooooooo no nooo-n

so small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!"
no noooo-n nooo-n; Nooooooo nooo-n noo noooo!"




"Look you," roared the Captain, "I'll kill-e YOU, you cannibal, if you
"Nooo noo," nooooo noo Noooooo, "N'no nooo-n NOO, noo nooooooo, no noo

try any more of your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye."
noo noo nooo no nooo nooooo nooooo nooo; no nooo nooo noo."




But it so happened just then, that it was high time for the Captain to
Noo no no nooooooo nooo nooo, nooo no noo nooo nooo noo noo Noooooo no

mind his own eye. The prodigious strain upon the main-sail had parted
nooo noo noo noo. Noo nooooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo-nooo noo nooooo

the weather-sheet, and the tremendous boom was now flying from side to
noo noooooo-noooo, noo noo nooooooooo nooo noo noo nooooo nooo nooo no

side, completely sweeping the entire after part of the deck. The poor
nooo, nooooooooo nooooooo noo nooooo noooo nooo no noo nooo. Noo nooo

fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was swept overboard; all
nooooo nooo Nooooooo noo noooooo no noooooo, noo noooo noooooooo; noo

hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the boom to stay it,
noooo nooo no n noooo; noo no noooooo noooooooo no noo nooo no nooo no,

seemed madness. It flew from right to left, and back again, almost
nooooo noooooo. No nooo nooo noooo no nooo, noo nooo noooo, nooooo

in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of
no noo noooooo no n noooo, noo noooo noooooo nooooo no noo noooo no

snapping into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of
nooooooo nooo noooooooo. Noooooo noo nooo, noo noooooo nooooo noooooo no

being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the
noooo nooo; noooo no nooo nooooo noooooo noo nooo, noo noooo nooooo noo

boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In the
nooo no no no nooo noo noooo noo no no noooooooooo noooo. No noo

midst of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and
noooo no nooo noooooooooooo, Nooooooo noooooo nooooo no noo noooo, noo

crawling under the path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one
nooooooo noooo noo nooo no noo nooo, noooooo nooo no n nooo, noooooo noo

end to the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like a lasso, caught it
noo no noo nooooooo, noo nooo nooooooo noo noooo nooo n noooo, nooooo no

round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar
noooo noo nooo no no noooo nooo noo nooo, noo no noo nooo nooo, noo nooo

was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner was run into the
noo nooo noo noooooo, noo noo noo nooo. Noo nooooooo noo noo nooo noo

wind, and while the hands were clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg,
nooo, noo noooo noo noooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo, Nooooooo,

stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a long living arc of
nooooooo no noo noooo, nooooo nooo noo nooo nooo n nooo nooooo noo no

a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog,
n nooo. Noo noooo noooooo no nooo no noo nooo nooooooo nooo n noo,

throwing his long arms straight out before him, and by turns revealing
nooooooo noo nooo nooo nooooooo noo nooooo noo, noo no noooo noooooooo

his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam. I looked at the grand
noo nooooo noooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo nooo. N nooooo no noo noooo

and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved. The greenhorn had gone
noo nooooooo nooooo, noo noo no noo no no noooo. Noo noooooooo noo nooo

down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from the water, Queequeg, now
nooo. Nooooooo noooooo noooooooooooooo nooo noo noooo, Nooooooo, noo

took an instant's glance around him, and seeming to see just how matters
nooo no noooooo'n nooooo nooooo noo, noo noooooo no noo nooo noo noooooo

were, dived down and disappeared. A few minutes more, and he rose again,
nooo, noooo nooo noo noooooooooo. N noo noooooo nooo, noo no nooo noooo,

one arm still striking out, and with the other dragging a lifeless form.
noo noo noooo nooooooo noo, noo nooo noo noooo nooooooo n nooooooo nooo.

The boat soon picked them up. The poor bumpkin was restored. All hands
Noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo no. Noo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo. Noo noooo

voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain begged his pardon. From that
noooo Nooooooo n noooo noooo; noo noooooo nooooo noo nooooo. Nooo nooo

hour I clove to Queequeg like a barnacle; yea, till poor Queequeg took
nooo N noooo no Nooooooo nooo n nooooooo; noo, nooo nooo Nooooooo nooo

his last long dive.
noo nooo nooo nooo.




Was there ever such unconsciousness? He did not seem to think that he at
Noo noooo nooo nooo noooooooooooooo? No noo noo nooo no noooo nooo no no

all deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies. He only
noo nooooooo n noooo nooo noo Nooooo noo Noooooooooo Noooooooo. No nooo

asked for water--fresh water--something to wipe the brine off; that
noooo noo noooo--noooo noooo--noooooooo no nooo noo noooo noo; nooo

done, he put on dry clothes, lighted his pipe, and leaning against the
nooo, no noo no noo noooooo, noooooo noo nooo, noo noooooo noooooo noo

bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those around him, seemed to be saying
nooooooo, noo nooooo nooooo noooo nooooo noo, nooooo no no nooooo

to himself--"It's a mutual, joint-stock world, in all meridians. We
no noooooo--"No'n n nooooo, noooo-noooo noooo, no noo noooooooo. No

cannibals must help these Christians."
noooooooo nooo nooo noooo Nooooooooo."










CHAPTER 14. Nantucket.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooooo.







Nothing more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning; so, after a
Noooooo nooo nooooooo no noo noooooo nooooo noo nooooooooo; no, noooo n

fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.
nooo noo, no nooooo noooooo no Noooooooo.




Nantucket! Take out your map and look at it. See what a real corner of
Noooooooo! Nooo noo nooo noo noo nooo no no. Noo nooo n nooo nooooo no

the world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely
noo noooo no nooooooo; noo no nooooo noooo, nooo noo noooo, nooo nooooo

than the Eddystone lighthouse. Look at it--a mere hillock, and elbow of
nooo noo Noooooooo nooooooooo. Nooo no no--n nooo noooooo, noo noooo no

sand; all beach, without a background. There is more sand there than
nooo; noo noooo, noooooo n nooooooooo. Noooo no nooo nooo noooo nooo

you would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper. Some
noo noooo noo no nooooo noooo no n nooooooooo noo nooooooo noooo. Nooo

gamesome wights will tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they
nooooooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo nooo nooo no noooo noooo noooo, nooo

don't grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have
noo'n nooo noooooooo; nooo nooo nooooo Nooooo nooooooo; nooo nooo nooo

to send beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that
no nooo nooooo nooo noo n noooo no nooo n nooo no no noo nooo; nooo

pieces of wood in Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true
nooooo no nooo no Noooooooo noo noooooo noooo nooo nooo no noo nooo

cross in Rome; that people there plant toadstools before their houses,
noooo no Nooo; nooo nooooo noooo noooo nooooooooo nooooo noooo nooooo,

to get under the shade in summer time; that one blade of grass makes an
no noo noooo noo noooo no nooooo nooo; nooo noo noooo no noooo noooo no

oasis, three blades in a day's walk a prairie; that they wear quicksand
noooo, noooo nooooo no n noo'n nooo n noooooo; nooo nooo nooo noooooooo

shoes, something like Laplander snow-shoes; that they are so shut up,
noooo, noooooooo nooo Noooooooo nooo-noooo; nooo nooo noo no nooo no,

belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and made an utter island
nooooo noooo, noooo noo nooooooo, nooooooooo, noo nooo no noooo nooooo

of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables small clams will
no no noo noooo, nooo no noooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo noooo noooo nooo

sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea turtles. But these
noooooooo no noooo nooooooo, no no noo noooo no noo noooooo. Noo noooo

extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
noooooooooooo nooo nooo nooo Noooooooo no no Nooooooo.




Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was
Nooo noo no noo nooooooo noooooooooo noooo no noo nooo nooooo noo

settled by the red-men. Thus goes the legend. In olden times an eagle
noooooo no noo noo-noo. Nooo nooo noo nooooo. No noooo noooo no noooo

swooped down upon the New England coast, and carried off an infant
noooooo nooo nooo noo Noo Noooooo noooo, noo noooooo noo no nooooo

Indian in his talons. With loud lament the parents saw their child borne
Nooooo no noo nooooo. Nooo nooo nooooo noo noooooo noo noooo noooo noooo

out of sight over the wide waters. They resolved to follow in the same
noo no noooo nooo noo nooo nooooo. Nooo nooooooo no nooooo no noo nooo

direction. Setting out in their canoes, after a perilous passage they
noooooooo. Noooooo noo no noooo nooooo, noooo n nooooooo noooooo nooo

discovered the island, and there they found an empty ivory casket,--the
nooooooooo noo nooooo, noo noooo nooo noooo no noooo noooo nooooo,--noo

poor little Indian's skeleton.
nooo nooooo Nooooo'n nooooooo.




What wonder, then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should take
Nooo nooooo, nooo, nooo noooo Nooooooooooo, nooo no n noooo, nooooo nooo

to the sea for a livelihood! They first caught crabs and quohogs in
no noo noo noo n nooooooooo! Nooo noooo nooooo noooo noo noooooo no

the sand; grown bolder, they waded out with nets for mackerel; more
noo nooo; noooo nooooo, nooo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo; nooo

experienced, they pushed off in boats and captured cod; and at last,
noooooooooo, nooo nooooo noo no noooo noo nooooooo noo; noo no nooo,

launching a navy of great ships on the sea, explored this watery world;
noooooooo n nooo no noooo noooo no noo noo, nooooooo nooo nooooo noooo;

put an incessant belt of circumnavigations round it; peeped in
noo no noooooooo nooo no noooooooooooooooo noooo no; nooooo no

at Behring's Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans declared
no Noooooo'n Noooooo; noo no noo noooooo noo noo nooooo nooooooo

everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the
noooooooooo noo nooo noo noooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo noo

flood; most monstrous and most mountainous! That Himmalehan, salt-sea
noooo; nooo noooooooo noo nooo noooooooooo! Nooo Nooooooooo, nooo-noo

Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that
Nooooooo, noooooo nooo nooo nooooooooooooo no noooooooooo noooo, nooo

his very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and
noo nooo nooooo noo nooo no no noooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo noo

malicious assaults!
noooooooo nooooooo!




And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing from
Noo nooo nooo noooo noooo Nooooooooooo, noooo noo noooooo, noooooo nooo

their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
noooo noo-nooo no noo noo, noooooo noo noooooooo noo nooooo noooo nooo

so many Alexanders; parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific, and
no nooo Nooooooooo; nooooooooo noo noooo nooo noo Nooooooo, Noooooo, noo

Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let America add
Nooooo nooooo, no noo noooo nooooo nooooo noo Nooooo. Noo Noooooo noo

Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the English overswarm
Nooooo no Noooo, noo nooo Nooo nooo Nooooo; noo noo Noooooo noooooooo

all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun; two thirds
noo Noooo, noo nooo noo noooo noooooo nooooo nooo noo noo; noo nooooo

of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's. For the sea is his; he
no nooo noooooooooo noooo noo noo Noooooooooo'n. Noo noo noo no noo; no

owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right of
nooo no, no Nooooooo noo noooooo; noooo nooooo nooooo noo n noooo no

way through it. Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but
noo noooooo no. Nooooooo noooo noo noo noooooooo noooooo; noooo nooo noo

floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though following the sea
nooooooo noooo; nooo noooooo noo nooooooooo, nooooo noooooooo noo noo

as highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, other fragments of
no nooooooooo noo nooo, nooo noo noooooo noooo noooo, noooo noooooooo no

the land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the
noo nooo nooo nooooooooo, noooooo noooooo no nooo noooo nooooo nooo noo

bottomless deep itself. The Nantucketer, he alone resides and riots on
nooooooooo nooo nooooo. Noo Noooooooooo, no noooo noooooo noo noooo no

the sea; he alone, in Bible language, goes down to it in ships; to and
noo noo; no noooo, no Noooo nooooooo, nooo nooo no no no noooo; no noo

fro ploughing it as his own special plantation. THERE is his home; THERE
noo noooooooo no no noo noo noooooo nooooooooo. NOOOO no noo nooo; NOOOO

lies his business, which a Noah's flood would not interrupt, though it
nooo noo nooooooo, noooo n Nooo'n noooo noooo noo noooooooo, nooooo no

overwhelmed all the millions in China. He lives on the sea, as prairie
noooooooooo noo noo nooooooo no Noooo. No noooo no noo noo, no noooooo

cocks in the prairie; he hides among the waves, he climbs them as
noooo no noo noooooo; no noooo noooo noo noooo, no nooooo nooo no

chamois hunters climb the Alps. For years he knows not the land; so
noooooo noooooo noooo noo Nooo. Noo noooo no noooo noo noo nooo; no

that when he comes to it at last, it smells like another world, more
nooo nooo no noooo no no no nooo, no nooooo nooo noooooo noooo, nooo

strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman. With the landless gull,
noooooooo nooo noo nooo noooo no no Noooooooo. Nooo noo nooooooo nooo,

that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to sleep between billows;
nooo no nooooo noooo noo noooo noo no nooooo no noooo noooooo noooooo;

so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight of land, furls his sails,
no no noooooooo, noo Noooooooooo, noo no noooo no nooo, noooo noo noooo,

and lays him to his rest, while under his very pillow rush herds of
noo nooo noo no noo nooo, noooo noooo noo nooo nooooo nooo noooo no

walruses and whales.
nooooooo noo nooooo.










CHAPTER 15. Chowder.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooo.







It was quite late in the evening when the little Moss came snugly
No noo noooo nooo no noo noooooo nooo noo nooooo Nooo nooo nooooo

to anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we could attend to no
no nooooo, noo Nooooooo noo N nooo nooooo; no no noooo nooooo no no

business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed. The landlord of
nooooooo nooo noo, no noooo nooo noo n nooooo noo n noo. Noo nooooooo no

the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey of the
noo Noooooo-Noo noo noooooooooo no no noo nooooo Noooo Nooooo no noo

Try Pots, whom he asserted to be the proprietor of one of the best kept
Noo Nooo, nooo no nooooooo no no noo nooooooooo no noo no noo nooo nooo

hotels in all Nantucket, and moreover he had assured us that Cousin
nooooo no noo Noooooooo, noo nooooooo no noo noooooo no nooo Nooooo

Hosea, as he called him, was famous for his chowders. In short, he
Noooo, no no nooooo noo, noo nooooo noo noo nooooooo. No noooo, no

plainly hinted that we could not possibly do better than try pot-luck at
noooooo nooooo nooo no noooo noo nooooooo no nooooo nooo noo noo-nooo no

the Try Pots. But the directions he had given us about keeping a yellow
noo Noo Nooo. Noo noo nooooooooo no noo noooo no noooo noooooo n nooooo

warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white church to the
noooooooo no noo noooooooo nooo nooo no nooooo n noooo nooooo no noo

larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made a
nooooooo, noo nooo noooooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooo nooo no nooo n

corner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first
nooooo noooo nooooo no noo noooooooo, noo nooo nooo, nooo noo noo noooo

man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very
noo no noo noooo noo noooo noo: noooo noooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo

much puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg
nooo noooooo no no noooo, nooooooooo no, no noo nooooo, Nooooooo

insisted that the yellow warehouse--our first point of departure--must
nooooooo nooo noo nooooo noooooooo--noo noooo noooo no noooooooo--nooo

be left on the larboard hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to
no nooo no noo nooooooo nooo, noooooo N noo nooooooooo Noooo Nooooo no

say it was on the starboard. However, by dint of beating about a little
noo no noo no noo noooooooo. Noooooo, no nooo no noooooo noooo n nooooo

in the dark, and now and then knocking up a peaceable inhabitant
no noo nooo, noo noo noo nooo nooooooo no n noooooooo nooooooooo

to inquire the way, we at last came to something which there was no
no noooooo noo noo, no no nooo nooo no noooooooo noooo noooo noo no

mistaking.
noooooooo.




Two enormous wooden pots painted black, and suspended by asses' ears,
Noo nooooooo nooooo nooo noooooo noooo, noo noooooooo no noooo' nooo,

swung from the cross-trees of an old top-mast, planted in front of an
noooo nooo noo noooo-noooo no no noo noo-nooo, noooooo no noooo no no

old doorway. The horns of the cross-trees were sawed off on the other
noo noooooo. Noo noooo no noo noooo-noooo nooo noooo noo no noo noooo

side, so that this old top-mast looked not a little like a gallows.
nooo, no nooo nooo noo noo-nooo nooooo noo n nooooo nooo n noooooo.

Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at the time, but I
Noooooo N noo nooo noooooooo no nooo noooooooooo no noo nooo, noo N

could not help staring at this gallows with a vague misgiving. A sort of
noooo noo nooo noooooo no nooo noooooo nooo n noooo noooooooo. N nooo no

crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining horns; yes, TWO
noooo noo no no nooo no N noooo no no noo noo noooooooo noooo; noo, NOO

of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me. It's ominous, thinks I. A
no nooo, noo noo Nooooooo, noo noo noo no. No'n noooooo, nooooo N. N

Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port; tombstones
Nooooo no Noooooooo nooo noooooo no no noooo noooooo nooo; nooooooooo

staring at me in the whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows! and a pair
noooooo no no no noo nooooooo'n nooooo; noo nooo n noooooo! noo n nooo

of prodigious black pots too! Are these last throwing out oblique hints
no nooooooooo noooo nooo noo! Noo noooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooo noooo

touching Tophet?
nooooooo Nooooo?




I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman
N noo nooooo nooo noooo noooooooooo no noo noooo no n nooooooo noooo

with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of the inn,
nooo nooooo nooo noo n nooooo nooo, nooooooo no noo noooo no noo noo,

under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an injured
noooo n nooo noo nooo nooooooo noooo, nooo nooooo nooo nooo no noooooo

eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
noo, noo nooooooo no n noooo nooooooo nooo n noo no n nooooo noooooo

shirt.
noooo.




"Get along with ye," said she to the man, "or I'll be combing ye!"
"Noo noooo nooo no," nooo noo no noo noo, "no N'no no noooooo no!"




"Come on, Queequeg," said I, "all right. There's Mrs. Hussey."
"Nooo no, Nooooooo," nooo N, "noo noooo. Noooo'n Noo. Nooooo."




And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving
Noo no no nooooo noo; No. Noooo Nooooo noooo nooo nooo, noo noooooo

Mrs. Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs. Upon
Noo. Nooooo nooooooo noooooooo no nooooo no noo noo noooooo. Nooo

making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing
nooooo noooo noo noooooo noo n nooooo noo n noo, Noo. Nooooo, nooooooooo

further scolding for the present, ushered us into a little room, and
noooooo nooooooo noo noo noooooo, noooooo no nooo n nooooo nooo, noo

seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recently concluded
noooooo no no n noooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo no n nooooooo noooooooo

repast, turned round to us and said--"Clam or Cod?"
nooooo, nooooo noooo no no noo nooo--"Nooo no Noo?"




"What's that about Cods, ma'am?" said I, with much politeness.
"Nooo'n nooo noooo Nooo, no'no?" nooo N, nooo nooo nooooooooo.




"Clam or Cod?" she repeated.
"Nooo no Noo?" noo nooooooo.




"A clam for supper? a cold clam; is THAT what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?"
"N nooo noo nooooo? n nooo nooo; no NOOO nooo noo nooo, Noo. Nooooo?"

says I, "but that's a rather cold and clammy reception in the winter
nooo N, "noo nooo'n n nooooo nooo noo nooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo

time, ain't it, Mrs. Hussey?"
nooo, noo'n no, Noo. Nooooo?"




But being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple
Noo noooo no n noooo noooo no nooooo nooooooo noo noo no noo nooooo

Shirt, who was waiting for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing
Noooo, noo noo noooooo noo no no noo noooo, noo noooooo no nooo noooooo

but the word "clam," Mrs. Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to
noo noo nooo "nooo," Noo. Nooooo noooooo noooooo no nooo nooo noooooo no

the kitchen, and bawling out "clam for two," disappeared.
noo noooooo, noo noooooo noo "nooo noo noo," noooooooooo.




"Queequeg," said I, "do you think that we can make out a supper for us
"Nooooooo," nooo N, "no noo noooo nooo no noo nooo noo n nooooo noo no

both on one clam?"
nooo no noo nooo?"




However, a warm savory steam from the kitchen served to belie the
Noooooo, n nooo nooooo noooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo no noooo noo

apparently cheerless prospect before us. But when that smoking chowder
nooooooooo noooooooo nooooooo nooooo no. Noo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo

came in, the mystery was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet friends!
nooo no, noo noooooo noo nooooooooooo noooooooo. No, noooo noooooo!

hearken to me. It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely bigger than
noooooo no no. No noo nooo no noooo noooo noooo, nooooooo nooooo nooo

hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut up into
noooo nooo, noooo nooo noooooo nooo noooooo, noo nooooo nooo noo no nooo

little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully seasoned
nooooo nooooo; noo noooo nooooooo nooo nooooo, noo noooooooooo nooooooo

with pepper and salt. Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty
nooo nooooo noo nooo. Noo noooooooo noooo noooooooo no noo nooooo

voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favourite fishing food
nooooo, noo no nooooooooo, Nooooooo nooooo noo noooooooo noooooo nooo

before him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we despatched
nooooo noo, noo noo noooooo noooo nooooooooooo noooooooo, no nooooooooo

it with great expedition: when leaning back a moment and bethinking
no nooo noooo nooooooooo: nooo noooooo nooo n nooooo noo nooooooooo

me of Mrs. Hussey's clam and cod announcement, I thought I would try
no no Noo. Nooooo'n nooo noo noo nooooooooooo, N noooooo N noooo noo

a little experiment. Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word
n nooooo nooooooooo. Nooooooo no noo noooooo nooo, N noooooo noo nooo

"cod" with great emphasis, and resumed my seat. In a few moments the
"noo" nooo noooo nooooooo, noo noooooo no nooo. No n noo noooooo noo

savoury steam came forth again, but with a different flavor, and in good
noooooo noooo nooo noooo noooo, noo nooo n noooooooo nooooo, noo no nooo

time a fine cod-chowder was placed before us.
nooo n nooo noo-noooooo noo nooooo nooooo no.




We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the bowl, thinks I
No noooooo nooooooo; noo noooo nooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo, nooooo N

to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the head?
no nooooo, N nooooo noo no nooo nooo noo noo nooooo no noo nooo?

What's that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people? "But look,
Nooo'n nooo noooooooooo nooooo noooo noooooo-nooooo nooooo? "Noo nooo,

Queequeg, ain't that a live eel in your bowl? Where's your harpoon?"
Nooooooo, noo'n nooo n nooo noo no nooo nooo? Noooo'n nooo noooooo?"




Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved
Nooooooo no noo noooo nooooo noo noo Noo Nooo, noooo nooo nooooooo

its name; for the pots there were always boiling chowders. Chowder for
noo nooo; noo noo nooo noooo nooo nooooo noooooo nooooooo. Noooooo noo

breakfast, and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you
noooooooo, noo noooooo noo nooooo, noo noooooo noo nooooo, nooo noo

began to look for fish-bones coming through your clothes. The area
noooo no nooo noo nooo-noooo nooooo noooooo nooo noooooo. Noo nooo

before the house was paved with clam-shells. Mrs. Hussey wore a polished
nooooo noo noooo noo noooo nooo nooo-nooooo. Noo. Nooooo nooo n nooooooo

necklace of codfish vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his account books
nooooooo no noooooo nooooooo; noo Noooo Nooooo noo noo noooooo noooo

bound in superior old shark-skin. There was a fishy flavor to the milk,
noooo no nooooooo noo noooo-nooo. Noooo noo n noooo nooooo no noo nooo,

too, which I could not at all account for, till one morning happening
noo, noooo N noooo noo no noo noooooo noo, nooo noo noooooo noooooooo

to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen's boats, I saw
no nooo n nooooo noooo noo noooo noooo nooo noooooooo'n noooo, N noo

Hosea's brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and marching along the
Noooo'n nooooooo noo noooooo no nooo nooooooo, noo nooooooo noooo noo

sand with each foot in a cod's decapitated head, looking very slip-shod,
nooo nooo nooo nooo no n noo'n noooooooooo nooo, noooooo nooo nooo-nooo,

I assure ye.
N nooooo no.




Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and directions from Mrs. Hussey
Nooooo noooooooo, no nooooooo n nooo, noo nooooooooo nooo Noo. Nooooo

concerning the nearest way to bed; but, as Queequeg was about to precede
nooooooooo noo noooooo noo no noo; noo, no Nooooooo noo noooo no noooooo

me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her arm, and demanded his
no no noo nooooo, noo nooo noooooo noooo noo noo, noo nooooooo noo

harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. "Why not?" said I;
noooooo; noo noooooo no noooooo no noo nooooooo. "Noo noo?" nooo N;

"every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon--but why not?" "Because
"noooo nooo nooooooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo--noo noo noo?" "Noooooo

it's dangerous," says she. "Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
no'n noooooooo," nooo noo. "Nooo noooo noooo Nooooo nooooo nooo nooo

unfort'nt v'y'ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with
nooooo'no n'n'no no noo, nooo no noo nooo nooo noooo noo n nooo, nooo

only three barrels of _ile_, was found dead in my first floor back, with
nooo noooo noooooo no noooo, noo noooo nooo no no noooo noooo nooo, nooo

his harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to take
noo noooooo no noo nooo; nooo noooo nooo N noooo no nooooooo no nooo

sich dangerous weepons in their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg" (for
nooo noooooooo noooooo no noooo noooo no noooo. No, No. Nooooooo" (noo

she had learned his name), "I will just take this here iron, and keep
noo noo noooooo noo nooo), "N nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo, noo nooo

it for you till morning. But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for
no noo noo nooo noooooo. Noo noo noooooo; nooo no noo no-nooooo noo

breakfast, men?"
noooooooo, noo?"




"Both," says I; "and let's have a couple of smoked herring by way of
"Nooo," nooo N; "noo noo'n nooo n nooooo no nooooo noooooo no noo no

variety."
noooooo."










CHAPTER 16. The Ship.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooo.







In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and
No noo no noooooooo noo noooo noo noo nooooo. Noo no no nooooooo noo

no small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand, that he had been
no noooo noooooo, Nooooooo noo nooo no no nooooooooo, nooo no noo nooo

diligently consulting Yojo--the name of his black little god--and Yojo
nooooooooo nooooooooo Nooo--noo nooo no noo noooo nooooo noo--noo Nooo

had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
noo nooo noo noo no noooo noooo nooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo nooo no

everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
nooooooo, nooo noooooo no noo noooo nooooooo noooo noo noooooo-noooo no

harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say, Yojo
nooooo, noo no noooooo noooooooo noo noooo; noooooo no nooo, N noo, Nooo

earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly
noooooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooooo no noo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo

with me, inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order to
nooo no, nooooooo no Nooo nooooooo noooooooooo no; noo, no noooo no

do so, had already pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself, I,
no no, noo noooooo noooooo nooo n nooooo, noooo, no nooo no nooooo, N,

Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it
Noooooo, nooooo nooooooooo noooo nooo, noo noo noo noooo no nooooo no

had turned out by chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship
noo nooooo noo no nooooo; noo no nooo nooooo N nooo noooooooooo nooo

myself, for the present irrespective of Queequeg.
nooooo, noo noo noooooo nooooooooooo no Nooooooo.




I have forgotten to mention that, in many things, Queequeg placed great
N nooo noooooooo no noooooo nooo, no nooo nooooo, Nooooooo nooooo noooo

confidence in the excellence of Yojo's judgment and surprising forecast
nooooooooo no noo nooooooooo no Nooo'n nooooooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo

of things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem, as a rather good
no nooooo; noo noooooooo Nooo nooo nooooooooooo nooooo, no n nooooo nooo

sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole, but in all
nooo no noo, noo noooooo noooo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooo, noo no noo

cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.
noooo noo noo noooooo no noo nooooooooo noooooo.




Now, this plan of Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touching the selection
Noo, nooo nooo no Nooooooo'n, no nooooo Nooo'n, nooooooo noo noooooooo

of our craft; I did not like that plan at all. I had not a little relied
no noo noooo; N noo noo nooo nooo nooo no noo. N noo noo n nooooo nooooo

upon Queequeg's sagacity to point out the whaler best fitted to carry
nooo Nooooooo'n nooooooo no noooo noo noo nooooo nooo nooooo no noooo

us and our fortunes securely. But as all my remonstrances produced
no noo noo nooooooo nooooooo. Noo no noo no noooooooooooo nooooooo

no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to acquiesce; and accordingly
no nooooo nooo Nooooooo, N noo noooooo no noooooooo; noo noooooooooo

prepared to set about this business with a determined rushing sort
nooooooo no noo noooo nooo nooooooo nooo n nooooooooo noooooo nooo

of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that trifling little
no nooooo noo noooo, nooo nooooo noooooo nooooo nooo nooooooo nooooo

affair. Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up with Yojo in our
nooooo. Nooo noooooo noooo, noooooo Nooooooo nooo no nooo Nooo no noo

little bedroom--for it seemed that it was some sort of Lent or Ramadan,
nooooo noooooo--noo no nooooo nooo no noo nooo nooo no Nooo no Noooooo,

or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with Queequeg and Yojo that
no noo no noooooo, noooooooooo, noo nooooo nooo Nooooooo noo Nooo nooo

day; HOW it was I never could find out, for, though I applied myself
noo; NOO no noo N noooo noooo nooo noo, noo, nooooo N noooooo nooooo

to it several times, I never could master his liturgies and XXXIX
no no noooooo noooo, N noooo noooo nooooo noo noooooooo noo NOOOO

Articles--leaving Queequeg, then, fasting on his tomahawk pipe, and Yojo
Nooooooo--noooooo Nooooooo, nooo, noooooo no noo nooooooo nooo, noo Nooo

warming himself at his sacrificial fire of shavings, I sallied out among
noooooo noooooo no noo noooooooooo nooo no nooooooo, N noooooo noo noooo

the shipping. After much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries,
noo nooooooo. Noooo nooo noooooooo nooooooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooooo,

I learnt that there were three ships up for three-years' voyages--The
N nooooo nooo noooo nooo noooo noooo no noo noooo-noooo' noooooo--Noo

Devil-dam, the Tit-bit, and the Pequod. DEVIL-DAM, I do not know the
Noooo-noo, noo Noo-noo, noo noo Nooooo. NOOOO-NOO, N no noo nooo noo

origin of; TIT-BIT is obvious; PEQUOD, you will no doubt remember, was
nooooo no; NOO-NOO no noooooo; NOOOOO, noo nooo no noooo nooooooo, noo

the name of a celebrated tribe of Massachusetts Indians; now extinct
noo nooo no n nooooooooo noooo no Noooooooooooo Noooooo; noo noooooo

as the ancient Medes. I peered and pryed about the Devil-dam; from her,
no noo noooooo Noooo. N nooooo noo noooo noooo noo Noooo-noo; nooo noo,

hopped over to the Tit-bit; and finally, going on board the Pequod,
nooooo nooo no noo Noo-noo; noo noooooo, noooo no noooo noo Nooooo,

looked around her for a moment, and then decided that this was the very
nooooo nooooo noo noo n nooooo, noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo noo noo nooo

ship for us.
nooo noo no.




You may have seen many a quaint craft in your day, for aught I
Noo noo nooo nooo nooo n nooooo noooo no nooo noo, noo noooo N

know;--square-toed luggers; mountainous Japanese junks; butter-box
nooo;--nooooo-nooo noooooo; noooooooooo Nooooooo noooo; nooooo-noo

galliots, and what not; but take my word for it, you never saw such a
nooooooo, noo nooo noo; noo nooo no nooo noo no, noo noooo noo nooo n

rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod. She was a ship of the old
nooo noo noooo no nooo nooo nooo noo Nooooo. Noo noo n nooo no noo noo

school, rather small if anything; with an old-fashioned claw-footed look
nooooo, nooooo noooo no nooooooo; nooo no noo-noooooooo nooo-nooooo nooo

about her. Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons and calms
noooo noo. Nooo nooooooo noo noooooo-noooooo no noo nooooooo noo noooo

of all four oceans, her old hull's complexion was darkened like a French
no noo nooo nooooo, noo noo nooo'n nooooooooo noo nooooooo nooo n Nooooo

grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia. Her venerable
noooooooo'n, noo noo noooo nooooo no Noooo noo Noooooo. Noo noooooooo

bows looked bearded. Her masts--cut somewhere on the coast of Japan,
nooo nooooo noooooo. Noo noooo--noo noooooooo no noo noooo no Noooo,

where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale--her masts stood
noooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooo noooooooo no n nooo--noo noooo noooo

stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Her
noooooo no nooo noo nooooo no noo noooo noo noooo no Noooooo. Noo

ancient decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped
noooooo noooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo, nooo noo noooooo-nooooooooo

flag-stone in Canterbury Cathedral where Becket bled. But to all these
nooo-noooo no Nooooooooo Noooooooo noooo Nooooo nooo. Noo no noo noooo

her old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining
noo noo noooooooooo, nooo noooo noo noo nooooooooo nooooooo, nooooooooo

to the wild business that for more than half a century she had followed.
no noo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo nooo nooo n noooooo noo noo nooooooo.

Old Captain Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he commanded
Noo Noooooo Noooo, nooo noooo noo noooo-nooo, nooooo no noooooooo

another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the
noooooo nooooo no noo noo, noo noo n noooooo nooooo, noo noo no noo

principal owners of the Pequod,--this old Peleg, during the term of his
noooooooo nooooo no noo Nooooo,--nooo noo Noooo, nooooo noo nooo no noo

chief-mateship, had built upon her original grotesqueness, and inlaid
noooo-nooooooo, noo noooo nooo noo nooooooo noooooooooooo, noo nooooo

it, all over, with a quaintness both of material and device, unmatched
no, noo nooo, nooo n nooooooooo nooo no nooooooo noo nooooo, noooooooo

by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake's carved buckler or bedstead. She
no nooooooo nooooo no no Nooooooo-Nooo'n nooooo noooooo no nooooooo. Noo

was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with
noo nooooooooo nooo noo nooooooo Noooooooo noooooo, noo nooo noooo nooo

pendants of polished ivory. She was a thing of trophies. A cannibal of
nooooooo no nooooooo noooo. Noo noo n noooo no nooooooo. N nooooooo no

a craft, tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies. All
n noooo, nooooooo noooooo noooo no noo nooooo noooo no noo noooooo. Noo

round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous
noooo, noo nooooooooo, nooo nooooooo nooo noooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo

jaw, with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for
noo, nooo noo nooo noooo noooo no noo noooo noooo, nooooooo noooo noo

pins, to fasten her old hempen thews and tendons to. Those thews ran not
nooo, no nooooo noo noo nooooo noooo noo noooooo no. Noooo noooo noo noo

through base blocks of land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of
noooooo nooo nooooo no nooo nooo, noo nooooo noooooooo nooo noooooo no

sea-ivory. Scorning a turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported
noo-noooo. Nooooooo n noooooooo noooo no noo nooooooo nooo, noo noooooo

there a tiller; and that tiller was in one mass, curiously carved
noooo n nooooo; noo nooo nooooo noo no noo nooo, noooooooo nooooo

from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditary foe. The helmsman who
nooo noo nooo nooooo noooo noo no noo nooooooooo noo. Noo nooooooo noo

steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt like the Tartar, when he holds
noooooo no nooo nooooo no n noooooo, nooo nooo noo Nooooo, nooo no noooo

back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw. A noble craft, but somehow a
nooo noo noooo noooo no noooooooo noo noo. N noooo noooo, noo noooooo n

most melancholy! All noble things are touched with that.
nooo nooooooooo! Noo noooo nooooo noo noooooo nooo nooo.




Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having authority,
Noo nooo N nooooo noooo noo noooooo-nooo, noo nooo noo nooooo noooooooo,

in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at first I saw
no noooo no noooooo nooooo no n noooooooo noo noo nooooo, no noooo N noo

nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or
nooooo; noo N noooo noo nooo nooooooo n noooooo nooo no nooo, no

rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast. It seemed only
nooooo nooooo, noooooo n nooooo nooooo noo nooo-nooo. No nooooo nooo

a temporary erection used in port. It was of a conical shape, some ten
n noooooooo nooooooo nooo no nooo. No noo no n noooooo noooo, nooo noo

feet high; consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken
nooo nooo; nooooooooo no noo nooo, nooo noooo no nooooo noooo nooo noooo

from the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale.
nooo noo nooooo noo noooooo nooo no noo nooo no noo noooo-noooo.

Planted with their broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced
Noooooo nooo noooo noooo nooo no noo nooo, n nooooo no noooo noooo noooo

together, mutually sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in
nooooooo, nooooooo nooooo noooooo nooo noooo, noo no noo nooo nooooo no

a tufted point, where the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like the
n nooooo noooo, noooo noo noooo noooo nooooo noooo no noo noo nooo noo

top-knot on some old Pottowottamie Sachem's head. A triangular opening
noo-nooo no nooo noo Noooooooooooo Nooooo'n nooo. N nooooooooo noooooo

faced towards the bows of the ship, so that the insider commanded a
noooo noooooo noo nooo no noo nooo, no nooo noo noooooo noooooooo n

complete view forward.
nooooooo nooo noooooo.




And half concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who
Noo nooo noooooooo no nooo noooo nooooooo, N no nooooo noooo noo noo

by his aspect seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and
no noo nooooo nooooo no nooo noooooooo; noo noo, no noooo nooo, noo

the ship's work suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of
noo nooo'n nooo noooooooo, noo noo nooooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo no

command. He was seated on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all
noooooo. No noo nooooo no no noo-noooooooo noooo noooo, noooooooo noo

over with curious carving; and the bottom of which was formed of a
nooo nooo noooooo noooooo; noo noo nooooo no noooo noo nooooo no n

stout interlacing of the same elastic stuff of which the wigwam was
noooo noooooooooo no noo nooo noooooo noooo no noooo noo nooooo noo

constructed.
noooooooooo.




There was nothing so very particular, perhaps, about the appearance of
Noooo noo noooooo no nooo nooooooooo, noooooo, noooo noo nooooooooo no

the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old seamen,
noo noooooo noo N noo; no noo noooo noo nooooo, nooo nooo noo nooooo,

and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style;
noo noooooo nooooo no no nooo noooo-noooo, noo no noo Nooooo noooo;

only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest
nooo noooo noo n nooo noo nooooo noooooooooo noo-nooo no noo nooooooo

wrinkles interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from
nooooooo noooooooooo noooo noo nooo, noooo nooo nooo nooooo nooo

his continual sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to
noo noooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooo noooo, noo nooooo noooooo no

windward;--for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed
nooooooo;--noo nooo nooooo noo noooooo noooo noo nooo no nooooo nooooo

together. Such eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.
nooooooo. Nooo noo-nooooooo noo nooo noooooooo no n noooo.




"Is this the Captain of the Pequod?" said I, advancing to the door of
"No nooo noo Noooooo no noo Nooooo?" nooo N, noooooooo no noo nooo no

the tent.
noo nooo.




"Supposing it be the captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?"
"Noooooooo no no noo noooooo no noo Nooooo, nooo nooo nooo nooo no noo?"

he demanded.
no nooooooo.




"I was thinking of shipping."
"N noo nooooooo no nooooooo."




"Thou wast, wast thou? I see thou art no Nantucketer--ever been in a
"Nooo nooo, nooo nooo? N noo nooo noo no Noooooooooo--nooo nooo no n

stove boat?"
noooo nooo?"




"No, Sir, I never have."
"No, Noo, N noooo nooo."




"Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say--eh?
"Nooo nooo noooooo no noo noooo noooooo, N nooo noo--no?




"Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn. I've been several
"Noooooo, Noo; noo N nooo no noooo N noooo nooo noooo. N'no nooo noooooo

voyages in the merchant service, and I think that--"
noooooo no noo nooooooo noooooo, noo N noooo nooo--"




"Merchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see that
"Nooooooo noooooo no nooooo. Nooo noo nooo noooo no no. Nooo noo nooo

leg?--I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of
noo?--N'no nooo nooo noo nooo nooo noo noooo, no nooo nooo noooooo no

the marchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose now
noo nooooooo noooooo no no noooo. Nooooooo noooooo nooooo! N noooooo noo

ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships.
no nooo nooooooooooo noooo no nooooo nooooo no noooo nooooooo noooo.

But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?--it looks
Noo nooooo! noo, nooo noooo nooo nooo no no n noooooo, no?--no noooo

a little suspicious, don't it, eh?--Hast not been a pirate, hast
n nooooo nooooooooo, noo'n no, no?--Nooo noo nooo n nooooo, nooo

thou?--Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?--Dost not think of
nooo?--Noooo noo noo noo nooo Noooooo, noooo nooo?--Nooo noo noooo no

murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea?"
noooooooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo noooooo no noo?"




I protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask
N noooooooo no noooooooo no noooo nooooo. N noo nooo noooo noo nooo

of these half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated
no noooo nooo nooooooo nooooooooo, nooo noo nooooo, no no noooooooo

Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and rather
Noooooooo Noooooooooo, noo nooo no noo noooooo nooooooooo, noo nooooo

distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
noooooooooo no noo nooooo, nooooo nooo nooooo nooo Nooo Noo no noo

Vineyard.
Nooooooo.




"But what takes thee a-whaling? I want to know that before I think of
"Noo nooo noooo nooo n-noooooo? N nooo no nooo nooo nooooo N noooo no

shipping ye."
nooooooo no."




"Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is. I want to see the world."
"Nooo, noo, N nooo no noo nooo noooooo no. N nooo no noo noo noooo."




"Want to see what whaling is, eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?"
"Nooo no noo nooo noooooo no, no? Nooo no noooooo noo no Noooooo Nooo?"




"Who is Captain Ahab, sir?"
"Noo no Noooooo Nooo, noo?"




"Aye, aye, I thought so. Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship."
"Noo, noo, N noooooo no. Noooooo Nooo no noo Noooooo no nooo nooo."




"I am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself."
"N no nooooooo nooo. N noooooo N noo nooooooo no noo Noooooo noooooo."




"Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg--that's who ye are speaking to,
"Nooo noo nooooooo no Noooooo Noooo--nooo'n noo no noo nooooooo no,

young man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted
noooo noo. No noooooo no no noo Noooooo Nooooo no noo noo Nooooo nooooo

out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew. We
noo noo noo nooooo, noo nooooooo nooo noo noo noooo, noooooooo nooo. No

are part owners and agents. But as I was going to say, if thou wantest
noo nooo nooooo noo nooooo. Noo no N noo noooo no noo, no nooo noooooo

to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way of
no nooo nooo noooooo no, no nooo noooooo no no, N noo noo no no n noo no

finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out. Clap
noooooo no noo nooooo no nooo nooooooo no no, nooo noooooo noo. Nooo

eye on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one
noo no Noooooo Nooo, noooo noo, noo nooo nooo nooo nooo no noo nooo noo

leg."
noo."




"What do you mean, sir? Was the other one lost by a whale?"
"Nooo no noo nooo, noo? Noo noo noooo noo nooo no n noooo?"




"Lost by a whale! Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured,
"Nooo no n noooo! Noooo noo, nooo nooooo no no: no noo nooooooo,

chewed up, crunched by the monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a
nooooo no, nooooooo no noo nooooooooooo nooooooooo nooo nooo noooooo n

boat!--ah, ah!"
nooo!--no, no!"




I was a little alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at
N noo n nooooo noooooo no noo nooooo, noooooo nooo n nooooo noooooo no

the hearty grief in his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I
noo nooooo noooo no noo nooooooooo noooooooooo, noo nooo no nooooo no N

could, "What you say is no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know
noooo, "Nooo noo noo no no noooo nooo nooooo, noo; noo noo noooo N nooo

there was any peculiar ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed
noooo noo noo nooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooooooooo noooo, nooooo nooooo

I might have inferred as much from the simple fact of the accident."
N noooo nooo nooooooo no nooo nooo noo nooooo nooo no noo nooooooo."




"Look ye now, young man, thy lungs are a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou
"Nooo no noo, noooo noo, noo noooo noo n nooo no nooo, n'no noo; nooo

dost not talk shark a bit. SURE, ye've been to sea before now; sure of
nooo noo nooo noooo n noo. NOOO, no'no nooo no noo nooooo noo; nooo no

that?"
nooo?"




"Sir," said I, "I thought I told you that I had been four voyages in the
"Noo," nooo N, "N noooooo N nooo noo nooo N noo nooo nooo noooooo no noo

merchant--"
nooooooo--"




"Hard down out of that! Mind what I said about the marchant
"Nooo nooo noo no nooo! Nooo nooo N nooo noooo noo nooooooo

service--don't aggravate me--I won't have it. But let us understand each
noooooo--noo'n noooooooo no--N noo'n nooo no. Noo noo no nooooooooo nooo

other. I have given thee a hint about what whaling is; do ye yet feel
noooo. N nooo noooo nooo n nooo noooo nooo noooooo no; no no noo nooo

inclined for it?"
nooooooo noo no?"




"I do, sir."
"N no, noo."




"Very good. Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's
"Nooo nooo. Noo, noo nooo noo noo no noooo n noooooo nooo n nooo noooo'n

throat, and then jump after it? Answer, quick!"
nooooo, noo nooo nooo noooo no? Nooooo, noooo!"




"I am, sir, if it should be positively indispensable to do so; not to be
"N no, noo, no no nooooo no nooooooooo noooooooooooo no no no; noo no no

got rid of, that is; which I don't take to be the fact."
noo noo no, nooo no; noooo N noo'n nooo no no noo nooo."




"Good again. Now then, thou not only wantest to go a-whaling, to find
"Nooo noooo. Noo nooo, nooo noo nooo noooooo no no n-noooooo, no nooo

out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to go in order to
noo no nooooooooo nooo noooooo no, noo no nooo nooo no no no noooo no

see the world? Was not that what ye said? I thought so. Well then, just
noo noo noooo? Noo noo nooo nooo no nooo? N noooooo no. Nooo nooo, nooo

step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and then back
nooo noooooo noooo, noo nooo n nooo nooo noo noooooo-noo, noo nooo nooo

to me and tell me what ye see there."
no no noo nooo no nooo no noo noooo."




For a moment I stood a little puzzled by this curious request, not
Noo n nooooo N noooo n nooooo noooooo no nooo noooooo noooooo, noo

knowing exactly how to take it, whether humorously or in earnest. But
noooooo noooooo noo no nooo no, noooooo nooooooooo no no noooooo. Noo

concentrating all his crow's feet into one scowl, Captain Peleg started
noooooooooooo noo noo nooo'n nooo nooo noo noooo, Noooooo Noooo noooooo

me on the errand.
no no noo nooooo.




Going forward and glancing over the weather bow, I perceived that the
Noooo noooooo noo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo noo, N noooooooo nooo noo

ship swinging to her anchor with the flood-tide, was now obliquely
nooo nooooooo no noo nooooo nooo noo noooo-nooo, noo noo noooooooo

pointing towards the open ocean. The prospect was unlimited, but
nooooooo noooooo noo nooo noooo. Noo nooooooo noo noooooooo, noo

exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the slightest variety that I
noooooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooooo; noo noo noooooooo noooooo nooo N

could see.
noooo noo.




"Well, what's the report?" said Peleg when I came back; "what did ye
"Nooo, nooo'n noo nooooo?" nooo Noooo nooo N nooo nooo; "nooo noo no

see?"
noo?"




"Not much," I replied--"nothing but water; considerable horizon though,
"Noo nooo," N noooooo--"noooooo noo noooo; nooooooooooo noooooo nooooo,

and there's a squall coming up, I think."
noo noooo'n n nooooo nooooo no, N noooo."




"Well, what does thou think then of seeing the world? Do ye wish to go
"Nooo, nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo no nooooo noo noooo? No no nooo no no

round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh? Can't ye see the world where
noooo Nooo Nooo no noo noo nooo no no, no? Noo'n no noo noo noooo noooo

you stand?"
noo noooo?"




I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would; and the
N noo n nooooo noooooooo, noo no n-noooooo N nooo, noo N noooo; noo noo

Pequod was as good a ship as any--I thought the best--and all this I now
Nooooo noo no nooo n nooo no noo--N noooooo noo nooo--noo noo nooo N noo

repeated to Peleg. Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness
nooooooo no Noooo. Nooooo no no nooooooooo, no noooooooo noo noooooooooo

to ship me.
no nooo no.




"And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off," he added--"come
"Noo nooo nooooo no nooo nooo noo nooooo noooo noo," no noooo--"nooo

along with ye." And so saying, he led the way below deck into the cabin.
noooo nooo no." Noo no nooooo, no noo noo noo noooo nooo nooo noo noooo.




Seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
Nooooo no noo noooooo noo nooo nooooo no no n nooo nooooooo noo

surprising figure. It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
nooooooooo nooooo. No nooooo noo no no Noooooo Nooooo, noo noooo nooo

Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other
Noooooo Noooo noo noo no noo noooooo nooooo no noo nooooo; noo noooo

shares, as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd
nooooo, no no noooooooo noo nooo no noooo noooo, noooo nooo no n noooo

of old annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; each
no noo nooooooooo; nooooo, nooooooooo nooooooo, noo nooooooo noooo; nooo

owning about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail
nooooo noooo noo noooo no n nooooo nooo, no n nooo no noooo, no n nooo

or two in the ship. People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling
no noo no noo nooo. Nooooo no Noooooooo nooooo noooo noooo no noooooo

vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved state stocks
noooooo, noo nooo noo nooo noo no noooo no nooooooo noooo nooooo

bringing in good interest.
nooooooo no nooo nooooooo.




Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers, was a
Noo, Nooooo, nooo Noooo, noo nooooo nooo noooo Nooooooooooo, noo n

Quaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to
Nooooo, noo nooooo nooooo nooo nooooooooo noooooo no nooo nooo; noo no

this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the
nooo noo noo noooooooooo no noooooo nooooo no no nooooooo noooooo noo

peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified
noooooooooooo no noo Nooooo, nooo noooooooo noo noooooooooo nooooooo

by things altogether alien and heterogeneous. For some of these same
no nooooo nooooooooo noooo noo noooooooooooo. Noo nooo no noooo nooo

Quakers are the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters. They
Noooooo noo noo nooo nooooooooo no noo noooooo noo noooo-noooooo. Nooo

are fighting Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.
noo nooooooo Noooooo; nooo noo Noooooo nooo n noooooooo.




So that there are instances among them of men, who, named with Scripture
No nooo noooo noo noooooooo noooo nooo no noo, noo, noooo nooo Noooooooo

names--a singularly common fashion on the island--and in childhood
noooo--n nooooooooo nooooo noooooo no noo nooooo--noo no noooooooo

naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and thou of the Quaker
noooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo no noo Nooooo

idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless adventure
noooo; noooo, nooo noo noooooooo, nooooo, noo noooooooo noooooooo

of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these unoutgrown
no noooo nooooooooo noooo, noooooooo noooo nooo noooo nooooooooo

peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not unworthy a
noooooooooooo, n nooooooo nooo nooooo no noooooooo, noo nooooooo n

Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman. And when these things
Nooooooooooo noo-nooo, no n nooooooo Noooo Noooo. Noo nooo noooo nooooo

unite in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a globular brain
noooo no n noo no noooooo nooooooo noooooo noooo, nooo n nooooooo noooo

and a ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and seclusion
noo n noooooooo noooo; noo noo nooo no noo noooooooo noo noooooooo

of many long night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath
no nooo nooo noooo-noooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo, noo noooooo

constellations never seen here at the north, been led to think
nooooooooooooo noooo nooo nooo no noo noooo, nooo noo no noooo

untraditionally and independently; receiving all nature's sweet or
noooooooooooooo noo noooooooooooo; noooooooo noo nooooo'n noooo no

savage impressions fresh from her own virgin voluntary and confiding
nooooo noooooooooo noooo nooo noo noo nooooo noooooooo noo noooooooo

breast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help from accidental
nooooo, noo noooooo noooooo, noo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooooo

advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language--that man makes
nooooooooo, no noooo n nooo noo noooooo noooo nooooooo--nooo noo noooo

one in a whole nation's census--a mighty pageant creature, formed for
noo no n noooo nooooo'n nooooo--n nooooo noooooo nooooooo, nooooo noo

noble tragedies. Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically
noooo noooooooo. Noo nooo no no noo noooooo nooo noo, nooooooooooo

regarded, if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems
nooooooo, no nooooo no noooo no noooo noooooooooooo, no nooo nooo noooo

a half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature. For all
n nooo nooooo nooooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo no noo nooooo. Noo noo

men tragically great are made so through a certain morbidness. Be sure
noo nooooooooo noooo noo nooo no noooooo n noooooo nooooooooo. No nooo

of this, O young ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease. But,
no nooo, N noooo nooooooo, noo nooooo noooooooo no noo noooooo. Noo,

as yet we have not to do with such an one, but with quite another; and
no noo no nooo noo no no nooo nooo no noo, noo nooo noooo noooooo; noo

still a man, who, if indeed peculiar, it only results again from another
noooo n noo, noo, no nooooo nooooooo, no nooo noooooo noooo nooo noooooo

phase of the Quaker, modified by individual circumstances.
noooo no noo Nooooo, nooooooo no nooooooooo noooooooooooo.




Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do, retired whaleman.
Nooo Noooooo Noooo, Noooooo Nooooo noo n nooo-no-no, noooooo nooooooo.

But unlike Captain Peleg--who cared not a rush for what are called
Noo nooooo Noooooo Noooo--noo noooo noo n nooo noo nooo noo nooooo

serious things, and indeed deemed those self-same serious things the
noooooo nooooo, noo nooooo nooooo noooo nooo-nooo noooooo nooooo noo

veriest of all trifles--Captain Bildad had not only been originally
noooooo no noo noooooo--Noooooo Nooooo noo noo nooo nooo nooooooooo

educated according to the strictest sect of Nantucket Quakerism, but all
nooooooo noooooooo no noo noooooooo nooo no Noooooooo Noooooooo, noo noo

his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many unclad, lovely island
noo nooooooooo noooo nooo, noo noo noooo no nooo nooooo, nooooo nooooo

creatures, round the Horn--all that had not moved this native born
noooooooo, noooo noo Nooo--noo nooo noo noo noooo nooo nooooo nooo

Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of his
Nooooo noo nooooo noo, noo noo no nooo no noooooo noo noooo no noo

vest. Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of
nooo. Noooo, noo noo nooo noooooooooooo, noo noooo nooo nooo no

common consistency about worthy Captain Peleg. Though refusing, from
nooooo noooooooooo noooo nooooo Noooooo Noooo. Nooooo nooooooo, nooo

conscientious scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself
noooooooooooo nooooooo, no nooo nooo noooooo nooo nooooooo, noo noooooo

had illimitably invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn foe
noo noooooooooo noooooo noo Nooooooo noo Noooooo; noo nooooo n noooo noo

to human bloodshed, yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled tuns
no noooo noooooooo, noo noo no no noo nooooooo-nooooo nooo, noooooo nooo

upon tuns of leviathan gore. How now in the contemplative evening of his
nooo nooo no noooooooo nooo. Noo noo no noo noooooooooooo noooooo no noo

days, the pious Bildad reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do
nooo, noo noooo Nooooo nooooooooo noooo nooooo no noo nooooooooooo, N no

not know; but it did not seem to concern him much, and very probably
noo nooo; noo no noo noo nooo no noooooo noo nooo, noo nooo nooooooo

he had long since come to the sage and sensible conclusion that a man's
no noo nooo noooo nooo no noo nooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo nooo n noo'n

religion is one thing, and this practical world quite another. This
nooooooo no noo noooo, noo nooo noooooooo noooo noooo noooooo. Nooo

world pays dividends. Rising from a little cabin-boy in short clothes
noooo nooo noooooooo. Nooooo nooo n nooooo noooo-noo no noooo noooooo

of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a broad shad-bellied waistcoat;
no noo nooooooo nooo, no n nooooooooo no n noooo nooo-noooooo noooooooo;

from that becoming boat-header, chief-mate, and captain, and finally a
nooo nooo nooooooo nooo-nooooo, noooo-nooo, noo noooooo, noo noooooo n

ship owner; Bildad, as I hinted before, had concluded his adventurous
nooo noooo; Nooooo, no N nooooo nooooo, noo noooooooo noo noooooooooo

career by wholly retiring from active life at the goodly age of
nooooo no nooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo nooo no noo nooooo noo no

sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his
noooo, noo nooooooooo noo noooooooo nooo no noo noooo noooooooo no noo

well-earned income.
nooo-nooooo nooooo.




Now, Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of being an
Noo, Nooooo, N no noooo no noo, noo noo nooooooooo no noooo no

incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
nooooooooooo noo noooo, noo no noo noo-noooo nooo, n nooooo, nooo

task-master. They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a
nooo-nooooo. Nooo nooo no no Noooooooo, nooooo no noooooooo noooo n

curious story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew,
noooooo noooo, nooo nooo no nooooo noo noo Noooooo nooooooo, noo nooo,

upon arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore
nooo nooooooo nooo, nooo nooooo noo noooooo nooooo no noo nooooooo, nooo

exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was
noooooooo noo nooo noo. Noo n noooo noo, nooooooooo noo n Nooooo, no noo

certainly rather hard-hearted, to say the least. He never used to swear,
noooooooo nooooo nooo-noooooo, no noo noo noooo. No noooo nooo no noooo,

though, at his men, they said; but somehow he got an inordinate
nooooo, no noo noo, nooo nooo; noo noooooo no noo no nooooooooo

quantity of cruel, unmitigated hard work out of them. When Bildad was a
nooooooo no noooo, noooooooooo nooo nooo noo no nooo. Nooo Nooooo noo n

chief-mate, to have his drab-coloured eye intently looking at you, made
noooo-nooo, no nooo noo nooo-nooooooo noo nooooooo noooooo no noo, nooo

you feel completely nervous, till you could clutch something--a hammer
noo nooo nooooooooo noooooo, nooo noo noooo nooooo noooooooo--n nooooo

or a marling-spike, and go to work like mad, at something or other,
no n noooooo-noooo, noo no no nooo nooo noo, no noooooooo no noooo,

never mind what. Indolence and idleness perished before him. His own
noooo nooo nooo. Noooooooo noo nooooooo nooooooo nooooo noo. Noo noo

person was the exact embodiment of his utilitarian character. On his
nooooo noo noo noooo nooooooooo no noo noooooooooo noooooooo. No noo

long, gaunt body, he carried no spare flesh, no superfluous beard,
nooo, noooo nooo, no noooooo no noooo noooo, no noooooooooo noooo,

his chin having a soft, economical nap to it, like the worn nap of his
noo nooo nooooo n nooo, nooooooooo noo no no, nooo noo nooo noo no noo

broad-brimmed hat.
noooo-noooooo noo.




Such, then, was the person that I saw seated on the transom when I
Nooo, nooo, noo noo nooooo nooo N noo nooooo no noo noooooo nooo N

followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin. The space between the decks
nooooooo Noooooo Noooo nooo nooo noo noooo. Noo noooo noooooo noo noooo

was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old Bildad, who always sat so,
noo noooo; noo noooo, nooo-noooooo, noo noo Nooooo, noo nooooo noo no,

and never leaned, and this to save his coat tails. His broad-brim was
noo noooo nooooo, noo nooo no nooo noo nooo noooo. Noo noooo-nooo noo

placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed; his drab vesture was
nooooo nooooo noo; noo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo; noo nooo noooooo noo

buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he seemed absorbed in
nooooooo no no noo nooo; noo nooooooooo no nooo, no nooooo nooooooo no

reading from a ponderous volume.
noooooo nooo n noooooooo nooooo.




"Bildad," cried Captain Peleg, "at it again, Bildad, eh? Ye have been
"Nooooo," noooo Noooooo Noooo, "no no noooo, Nooooo, no? No nooo nooo

studying those Scriptures, now, for the last thirty years, to my certain
nooooooo noooo Nooooooooo, noo, noo noo nooo nooooo noooo, no no noooooo

knowledge. How far ye got, Bildad?"
noooooooo. Noo noo no noo, Nooooo?"




As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,
No no nooo nooooooooo no nooo noooooo nooo nooo noo noo nooooooo,

Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, and
Nooooo, noooooo nooooooo noo noooooo noooooooooo, noooooo nooooo no, noo

seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.
nooooo no, noooooo noooo noooooooooo noooooo Noooo.




"He says he's our man, Bildad," said Peleg, "he wants to ship."
"No nooo no'n noo noo, Nooooo," nooo Noooo, "no noooo no nooo."




"Dost thee?" said Bildad, in a hollow tone, and turning round to me.
"Nooo nooo?" nooo Nooooo, no n nooooo nooo, noo noooooo noooo no no.




"I dost," said I unconsciously, he was so intense a Quaker.
"N nooo," nooo N noooooooooooo, no noo no noooooo n Nooooo.




"What do ye think of him, Bildad?" said Peleg.
"Nooo no no noooo no noo, Nooooo?" nooo Noooo.




"He'll do," said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at
"No'no no," nooo Nooooo, nooooo no, noo nooo nooo no nooooooo nooo no

his book in a mumbling tone quite audible.
noo nooo no n nooooooo nooo noooo noooooo.




I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw, especially as Peleg,
N noooooo noo noo nooooooo noo Nooooo N nooo noo, nooooooooo no Noooo,

his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer. But I said
noo nooooo noo noo nooooooo, nooooo nooo n noooooooo. Noo N nooo

nothing, only looking round me sharply. Peleg now threw open a chest,
noooooo, nooo noooooo noooo no noooooo. Noooo noo noooo nooo n noooo,

and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him,
noo noooooo noooo noo nooo'n nooooooo, nooooo noo noo noo nooooo noo,

and seated himself at a little table. I began to think it was high time
noo nooooo noooooo no n nooooo noooo. N noooo no noooo no noo nooo nooo

to settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the
no nooooo nooo nooooo no nooo noooo N noooo no noooooo no nooooo noo noo

voyage. I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no
nooooo. N noo noooooo noooo nooo no noo noooooo nooooooo nooo nooo no

wages; but all hands, including the captain, received certain shares of
noooo; noo noo noooo, noooooooo noo noooooo, nooooooo noooooo nooooo no

the profits called lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the
noo noooooo nooooo nooo, noo nooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooooooo no noo

degree of importance pertaining to the respective duties of the ship's
nooooo no nooooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooooooo nooooo no noo nooo'n

company. I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my own
noooooo. N noo nooo noooo nooo noooo n noooo nooo no noooooo, no noo

lay would not be very large; but considering that I was used to the sea,
noo noooo noo no nooo noooo; noo noooooooooo nooo N noo nooo no noo noo,

could steer a ship, splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt that
noooo noooo n nooo, nooooo n nooo, noo noo nooo, N nooo no noooo nooo

from all I had heard I should be offered at least the 275th lay--that
nooo noo N noo noooo N nooooo no noooooo no noooo noo noooo noo--nooo

is, the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage, whatever
no, noo noooo nooo no noo noooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooo, nooooooo

that might eventually amount to. And though the 275th lay was what they
nooo noooo nooooooooo nooooo no. Noo nooooo noo noooo noo noo nooo nooo

call a rather LONG LAY, yet it was better than nothing; and if we had a
nooo n nooooo NOOO NOO, noo no noo nooooo nooo noooooo; noo no no noo n

lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for the clothing I would wear out
noooo nooooo, noooo nooooo nooooo noo noo noo nooooooo N noooo nooo noo

on it, not to speak of my three years' beef and board, for which I would
no no, noo no noooo no no noooo noooo' nooo noo noooo, noo noooo N noooo

not have to pay one stiver.
noo nooo no noo noo nooooo.




It might be thought that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely
No noooo no noooooo nooo nooo noo n nooo noo no nooooooooo n nooooooo

fortune--and so it was, a very poor way indeed. But I am one of those
noooooo--noo no no noo, n nooo nooo noo nooooo. Noo N no noo no noooo

that never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if the
nooo noooo nooo no noooo nooooooo nooooooo, noo no noooo noooooo no noo

world is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at this grim
noooo no noooo no noooo noo noooo no, noooo N no noooooo no no nooo nooo

sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the whole, I thought that the 275th lay
nooo no noo Noooooo Noooo. Nooo noo noooo, N noooooo nooo noo noooo noo

would be about the fair thing, but would not have been surprised had I
noooo no noooo noo nooo noooo, noo noooo noo nooo nooo noooooooo noo N

been offered the 200th, considering I was of a broad-shouldered make.
nooo noooooo noo noooo, noooooooooo N noo no n noooo-nooooooooo nooo.




But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little distrustful about
Noo noo noooo, nooooooooooo, nooo nooo no n nooooo noooooooooo noooo

receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore, I had heard
noooooooo n nooooooo noooo no noo noooooo noo nooo: Nooooo, N noo noooo

something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony Bildad;
noooooooo no nooo Noooooo Noooo noo noo noooooooooooo noo noooo Nooooo;

how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod, therefore
noo nooo nooo noooo noo noooooooo noooooooooo no noo Nooooo, noooooooo

the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly the
noo noooo noo nooo nooooooooooooo noo noooooooo nooooo, nooo nooooo noo

whole management of the ship's affairs to these two. And I did not know
noooo nooooooooo no noo nooo'n noooooo no noooo noo. Noo N noo noo nooo

but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about
noo nooo noo nooooo noo Nooooo noooo nooo n nooooo nooo no noo noooo

shipping hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod,
nooooooo noooo, nooooooooo no N noo noooo noo no noooo noo Nooooo,

quite at home there in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his
noooo no nooo noooo no noo noooo, noo noooooo noo Noooo no no no noo

own fireside. Now while Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his
noo nooooooo. Noo noooo Noooo noo nooooo nooooo no nooo n noo nooo noo

jack-knife, old Bildad, to my no small surprise, considering that he was
nooo-noooo, noo Nooooo, no no no noooo nooooooo, noooooooooo nooo no noo

such an interested party in these proceedings; Bildad never heeded
nooo no nooooooooo noooo no noooo noooooooooo; Nooooo noooo nooooo

us, but went on mumbling to himself out of his book, "LAY not up for
no, noo nooo no nooooooo no noooooo noo no noo nooo, "NOO noo no noo

yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth--"
nooooooooo noooooooo nooo noooo, noooo nooo--"




"Well, Captain Bildad," interrupted Peleg, "what d'ye say, what lay
"Nooo, Noooooo Nooooo," noooooooooo Noooo, "nooo n'no noo, nooo noo

shall we give this young man?"
noooo no nooo nooo noooo noo?"




"Thou knowest best," was the sepulchral reply, "the seven hundred and
"Nooo noooooo nooo," noo noo nooooooooo noooo, "noo noooo noooooo noo

seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would it?--'where moth and rust do
noooooo-noooooo nooooo'n no noo nooo, noooo no?--'noooo nooo noo nooo no

corrupt, but LAY--'"
noooooo, noo NOO--'"




LAY, indeed, thought I, and such a lay! the seven hundred and
NOO, nooooo, noooooo N, noo nooo n noo! noo noooo noooooo noo

seventy-seventh! Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I, for one,
noooooo-noooooo! Nooo, noo Nooooo, noo noo nooooooooo nooo N, noo noo,

shall not LAY up many LAYS here below, where moth and rust do corrupt.
noooo noo NOO no nooo NOOO nooo noooo, noooo nooo noo nooo no noooooo.

It was an exceedingly LONG LAY that, indeed; and though from the
No noo no noooooooooo NOOO NOO nooo, nooooo; noo nooooo nooo noo

magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet
noooooooo no noo nooooo no noooo no noooo noooooo n nooooooo, noo

the slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and
noo noooooooo noooooooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo noooo noooooo noo

seventy-seven is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make
noooooo-noooo no n nooooo noooo nooooo, noo, nooo noo nooo no nooo

a TEENTH of it, you will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and
n NOOOOO no no, noo nooo nooo noo, N noo, nooo noo noooo noooooo noo

seventy-seventh part of a farthing is a good deal less than seven
noooooo-noooooo nooo no n nooooooo no n nooo nooo nooo nooo noooo

hundred and seventy-seven gold doubloons; and so I thought at the time.
noooooo noo noooooo-noooo nooo noooooooo; noo no N noooooo no noo nooo.




"Why, blast your eyes, Bildad," cried Peleg, "thou dost not want to
"Noo, noooo nooo nooo, Nooooo," noooo Noooo, "nooo nooo noo nooo no

swindle this young man! he must have more than that."
noooooo nooo noooo noo! no nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo."




"Seven hundred and seventy-seventh," again said Bildad, without lifting
"Noooo noooooo noo noooooo-noooooo," noooo nooo Nooooo, noooooo noooooo

his eyes; and then went on mumbling--"for where your treasure is, there
noo nooo; noo nooo nooo no nooooooo--"noo noooo nooo nooooooo no, noooo

will your heart be also."
nooo nooo noooo no nooo."




"I am going to put him down for the three hundredth," said Peleg, "do ye
"N no noooo no noo noo nooo noo noo noooo noooooooo," nooo Noooo, "no no

hear that, Bildad! The three hundredth lay, I say."
nooo nooo, Nooooo! Noo noooo noooooooo noo, N noo."




Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly towards him said,
Nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooooo nooooooo noooooo noo nooo,

"Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must consider the
"Noooooo Noooo, nooo nooo n nooooooo noooo; noo nooo nooo nooooooo noo

duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship--widows and orphans,
nooo nooo noooo no noo noooo nooooo no nooo nooo--nooooo noo noooooo,

many of them--and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
nooo no nooo--noo nooo no no noo nooooooooo nooooo noo nooooo no nooo

young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those
noooo noo, no noo no nooooo noo noooo nooo noooo nooooo noo noooo

orphans. The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg."
noooooo. Noo noooo noooooo noo noooooo-noooooo noo, Noooooo Noooo."




"Thou Bildad!" roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the
"Nooo Nooooo!" nooooo Noooo, nooooooo no noo nooooooooo noooo noo

cabin. "Blast ye, Captain Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these
noooo. "Noooo no, Noooooo Nooooo, no N noo nooooooo noo nooooo no noooo

matters, I would afore now had a conscience to lug about that would be
noooooo, N noooo noooo noo noo n nooooooooo no noo noooo nooo noooo no

heavy enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round Cape
noooo nooooo no noooooo noo noooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo noooo Nooo

Horn."
Nooo."




"Captain Peleg," said Bildad steadily, "thy conscience may be drawing
"Noooooo Noooo," nooo Nooooo nooooooo, "noo nooooooooo noo no noooooo

ten inches of water, or ten fathoms, I can't tell; but as thou art still
noo nooooo no noooo, no noo noooooo, N noo'n nooo; noo no nooo noo noooo

an impenitent man, Captain Peleg, I greatly fear lest thy conscience be
no nooooooooo noo, Noooooo Noooo, N noooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooooo no

but a leaky one; and will in the end sink thee foundering down to the
noo n noooo noo; noo nooo no noo noo nooo nooo nooooooooo nooo no noo

fiery pit, Captain Peleg."
noooo noo, Noooooo Noooo."




"Fiery pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
"Noooo noo! noooo noo! no nooooo no, noo; nooo noo noooooo noooooo, no

insult me. It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that
nooooo no. No'n no noo-noooo noooooo no nooo noo noooo nooooooo nooo

he's bound to hell. Flukes and flames! Bildad, say that again to me, and
no'n noooo no nooo. Nooooo noo nooooo! Nooooo, noo nooo noooo no no, noo

start my soul-bolts, but I'll--I'll--yes, I'll swallow a live goat with
noooo no nooo-noooo, noo N'no--N'no--noo, N'no noooooo n nooo nooo nooo

all his hair and horns on. Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-coloured
noo noo nooo noo noooo no. Noo no noo noooo, no noooooo, nooo-nooooooo

son of a wooden gun--a straight wake with ye!"
noo no n nooooo noo--n nooooooo nooo nooo no!"




As he thundered out this he made a rush at Bildad, but with a marvellous
No no noooooooo noo nooo no nooo n nooo no Nooooo, noo nooo n nooooooooo

oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that time eluded him.
noooooo, noooooo nooooooo, Nooooo noo nooo nooo nooooo noo.




Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal and
Noooooo no nooo nooooooo nooooooo noooooo noo noo noooooooo noo

responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up
noooooooooo nooooo no noo nooo, noo noooooo nooo n nooo no nooo no

all idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily
noo nooo no noooooo no n nooooo no nooooooooooo noooo noo noooooooooo

commanded, I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who,
noooooooo, N noooooo noooo nooo noo nooo no nooo nooooo no Nooooo, noo,

I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened
N nooo no noooo, noo noo noooooooo no nooooo nooo nooooo noo nooooooo

wrath of Peleg. But to my astonishment, he sat down again on the
noooo no Noooo. Noo no no nooooooooooo, no noo nooo noooo no noo

transom very quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest intention of
noooooo nooo noooooo, noo nooooo no nooo noo noo noooooooo noooooooo no

withdrawing. He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways. As
noooooooooo. No nooooo noooo nooo no nooooooooo Noooo noo noo nooo. No

for Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, there seemed no more
noo Noooo, noooo noooooo noo noo nooo no no noo, noooo nooooo no nooo

left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb, though he twitched a
nooo no noo, noo no, noo, noo nooo nooo n nooo, nooooo no nooooooo n

little as if still nervously agitated. "Whew!" he whistled at last--"the
nooooo no no noooo noooooooo nooooooo. "Nooo!" no nooooooo no nooo--"noo

squall's gone off to leeward, I think. Bildad, thou used to be good at
nooooo'n nooo noo no noooooo, N noooo. Nooooo, nooo nooo no no nooo no

sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye. My jack-knife here needs
nooooooooo n noooo, nooo nooo noo, nooo no. No nooo-noooo nooo noooo

the grindstone. That's he; thank ye, Bildad. Now then, my young man,
noo nooooooooo. Nooo'n no; noooo no, Nooooo. Noo nooo, no noooo noo,

Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say? Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael,
Noooooo'n noo nooo, nooo'n no noo? Nooo nooo, nooo no no nooo, Noooooo,

for the three hundredth lay."
noo noo noooo noooooooo noo."




"Captain Peleg," said I, "I have a friend with me who wants to ship
"Noooooo Noooo," nooo N, "N nooo n nooooo nooo no noo noooo no nooo

too--shall I bring him down to-morrow?"
noo--noooo N noooo noo nooo no-nooooo?"




"To be sure," said Peleg. "Fetch him along, and we'll look at him."
"No no nooo," nooo Noooo. "Noooo noo noooo, noo no'no nooo no noo."




"What lay does he want?" groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in
"Nooo noo nooo no nooo?" noooooo Nooooo, nooooooo no nooo noo nooo no

which he had again been burying himself.
noooo no noo noooo nooo noooooo noooooo.




"Oh! never thee mind about that, Bildad," said Peleg. "Has he ever
"No! noooo nooo nooo noooo nooo, Nooooo," nooo Noooo. "Noo no nooo

whaled it any?" turning to me.
nooooo no noo?" noooooo no no.




"Killed more whales than I can count, Captain Peleg."
"Nooooo nooo nooooo nooo N noo noooo, Noooooo Noooo."




"Well, bring him along then."
"Nooo, noooo noo noooo nooo."




And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I
Noo, noooo noooooo noo nooooo, noo N nooo; noooooo nooooooo noo nooo N

had done a good morning's work, and that the Pequod was the identical
noo nooo n nooo noooooo'n nooo, noo nooo noo Nooooo noo noo noooooooo

ship that Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.
nooo nooo Nooo noo nooooooo no noooo Nooooooo noo no noooo noo Nooo.




But I had not proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the Captain
Noo N noo noo noooooooo noo, nooo N noooo no noooooo no nooo noo Noooooo

with whom I was to sail yet remained unseen by me; though, indeed, in
nooo nooo N noo no nooo noo nooooooo nooooo no no; nooooo, nooooo, no

many cases, a whale-ship will be completely fitted out, and receive all
nooo noooo, n noooo-nooo nooo no nooooooooo nooooo noo, noo noooooo noo

her crew on board, ere the captain makes himself visible by arriving
noo nooo no noooo, noo noo noooooo noooo noooooo noooooo no nooooooo

to take command; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged, and the
no nooo noooooo; noo noooooooo noooo noooooo noo no noooooooo, noo noo

shore intervals at home so exceedingly brief, that if the captain have
noooo noooooooo no nooo no noooooooooo noooo, nooo no noo noooooo nooo

a family, or any absorbing concernment of that sort, he does not trouble
n nooooo, no noo noooooooo noooooooooo no nooo nooo, no nooo noo noooooo

himself much about his ship in port, but leaves her to the owners till
noooooo nooo noooo noo nooo no nooo, noo nooooo noo no noo nooooo nooo

all is ready for sea. However, it is always as well to have a look at
noo no noooo noo noo. Noooooo, no no nooooo no nooo no nooo n nooo no

him before irrevocably committing yourself into his hands. Turning back
noo nooooo noooooooooo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo. Noooooo nooo

I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab was to be found.
N nooooooo Noooooo Noooo, noooooooo noooo Noooooo Nooo noo no no noooo.




"And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab? It's all right enough; thou
"Noo nooo nooo nooo nooo no Noooooo Nooo? No'n noo noooo nooooo; nooo

art shipped."
noo noooooo."




"Yes, but I should like to see him."
"Noo, noo N nooooo nooo no noo noo."




"But I don't think thou wilt be able to at present. I don't know exactly
"Noo N noo'n noooo nooo nooo no nooo no no noooooo. N noo'n nooo noooooo

what's the matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort
nooo'n noo nooooo nooo noo; noo no noooo noooo nooooo noo noooo; n nooo

of sick, and yet he don't look so. In fact, he ain't sick; but no, he
no nooo, noo noo no noo'n nooo no. No nooo, no noo'n nooo; noo no, no

isn't well either. Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I
noo'n nooo nooooo. Noo noo, noooo noo, no noo'n nooooo noo no, no N

don't suppose he will thee. He's a queer man, Captain Ahab--so some
noo'n noooooo no nooo nooo. No'n n noooo noo, Noooooo Nooo--no nooo

think--but a good one. Oh, thou'lt like him well enough; no fear, no
noooo--noo n nooo noo. No, nooo'no nooo noo nooo nooooo; no nooo, no

fear. He's a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak
nooo. No'n n noooo, noooooo, noo-nooo noo, Noooooo Nooo; noooo'n noooo

much; but, when he does speak, then you may well listen. Mark ye, be
nooo; noo, nooo no nooo noooo, nooo noo noo nooo nooooo. Nooo no, no

forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been in colleges, as well as
nooooooooo; Nooo'n noooo noo nooooo; Nooo'n nooo no nooooooo, no nooo no

'mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than the waves; fixed
'nooo noo noooooooo; nooo nooo no nooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo; noooo

his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes than whales. His lance!
noo noooo noooo no nooooooo, nooooooo nooo nooo nooooo. Noo noooo!

aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle! Oh! he ain't
noo, noo noooooo noo noo nooooo nooo noo no noo noo nooo! No! no noo'n

Captain Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; HE'S AHAB, boy; and Ahab
Noooooo Nooooo; no, noo no noo'n Noooooo Noooo; NO'N NOOO, noo; noo Nooo

of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!"
no noo, nooo noooooo, noo n noooooo nooo!"




"And a very vile one. When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did
"Noo n nooo nooo noo. Nooo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo, noo

they not lick his blood?"
nooo noo nooo noo noooo?"




"Come hither to me--hither, hither," said Peleg, with a significance in
"Nooo nooooo no no--nooooo, nooooo," nooo Noooo, nooo n nooooooooooo no

his eye that almost startled me. "Look ye, lad; never say that on board
noo noo nooo nooooo nooooooo no. "Nooo no, noo; noooo noo nooo no noooo

the Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself.
noo Nooooo. Noooo noo no nooooooo. Noooooo Nooo noo noo nooo noooooo.

'Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died
'Nooo n noooooo, nooooooo nooo no noo noooo, noooooo nooooo, noo nooo

when he was only a twelvemonth old. And yet the old squaw Tistig, at
nooo no noo nooo n noooooooooo noo. Noo noo noo noo noooo Nooooo, no

Gayhead, said that the name would somehow prove prophetic. And, perhaps,
Noooooo, nooo nooo noo nooo noooo noooooo noooo noooooooo. Noo, noooooo,

other fools like her may tell thee the same. I wish to warn thee. It's a
noooo noooo nooo noo noo nooo nooo noo nooo. N nooo no nooo nooo. No'n n

lie. I know Captain Ahab well; I've sailed with him as mate years ago;
noo. N nooo Noooooo Nooo nooo; N'no nooooo nooo noo no nooo noooo noo;

I know what he is--a good man--not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but
N nooo nooo no no--n nooo noo--noo n noooo, nooo noo, nooo Nooooo, noo

a swearing good man--something like me--only there's a good deal more of
n nooooooo nooo noo--noooooooo nooo no--nooo noooo'n n nooo nooo nooo no

him. Aye, aye, I know that he was never very jolly; and I know that on
noo. Noo, noo, N nooo nooo no noo noooo nooo noooo; noo N nooo nooo no

the passage home, he was a little out of his mind for a spell; but it
noo noooooo nooo, no noo n nooooo noo no noo nooo noo n noooo; noo no

was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that
noo noo noooo nooooooo noooo no noo nooooooo noooo nooo noooooo nooo

about, as any one might see. I know, too, that ever since he lost
noooo, no noo noo noooo noo. N nooo, noo, nooo nooo noooo no nooo

his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he's been a kind of
noo noo nooo nooooo no nooo nooooooo noooo, no'n nooo n nooo no

moody--desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will all pass
noooo--noooooooo noooo, noo nooooo noooooooo; noo nooo nooo noo nooo

off. And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man, it's
noo. Noo nooo noo noo, noo no nooo nooo noo nooooo nooo, noooo noo, no'n

better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one. So
nooooo no nooo nooo n noooo nooo noooooo nooo n nooooooo noo noo. No

good-bye to thee--and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to
nooo-noo no nooo--noo noooo noo Noooooo Nooo, noooooo no noooooo no

have a wicked name. Besides, my boy, he has a wife--not three voyages
nooo n nooooo nooo. Noooooo, no noo, no noo n nooo--noo noooo noooooo

wedded--a sweet, resigned girl. Think of that; by that sweet girl that
nooooo--n noooo, nooooooo nooo. Noooo no nooo; no nooo noooo nooo nooo

old man has a child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless
noo noo noo n noooo: nooo no nooo noooo noo no noo noooo, nooooooo

harm in Ahab? No, no, my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his
nooo no Nooo? No, no, no noo; nooooooo, noooooo, no no no, Nooo noo noo

humanities!"
nooooooooo!"




As I walked away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been
No N nooooo nooo, N noo nooo no nooooooooooooo; nooo noo nooo

incidentally revealed to me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain
nooooooooooo nooooooo no no no Noooooo Nooo, nooooo no nooo n noooooo

wild vagueness of painfulness concerning him. And somehow, at the time,
nooo noooooooo no noooooooooo nooooooooo noo. Noo noooooo, no noo nooo,

I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for him, but for I don't know what,
N nooo n nooooooo noo n nooooo noo noo, noo noo N noo'n nooo nooo,

unless it was the cruel loss of his leg. And yet I also felt a strange
nooooo no noo noo noooo nooo no noo noo. Noo noo N nooo nooo n noooooo

awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at all describe, was
noo no noo; noo nooo nooo no noo, noooo N nooooo no noo nooooooo, noo

not exactly awe; I do not know what it was. But I felt it; and it did
noo noooooo noo; N no noo nooo nooo no noo. Noo N nooo no; noo no noo

not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at what seemed
noo nooooooooo no noooooo noo; nooooo N nooo nooooooooo no nooo nooooo

like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then. However,
nooo noooooo no noo, no noooooooooo no no noo noooo no no nooo. Noooooo,

my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for the
no nooooooo nooo no nooooo noooooo no noooo nooooooooo, no nooo noo noo

present dark Ahab slipped my mind.
noooooo nooo Nooo noooooo no nooo.










CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooo.







As Queequeg's Ramadan, or Fasting and Humiliation, was to continue all
No Nooooooo'n Noooooo, no Noooooo noo Noooooooooo, noo no nooooooo noo

day, I did not choose to disturb him till towards night-fall; for I
noo, N noo noo nooooo no noooooo noo nooo noooooo noooo-nooo; noo N

cherish the greatest respect towards everybody's religious obligations,
noooooo noo nooooooo noooooo noooooo noooooooo'n noooooooo noooooooooo,

never mind how comical, and could not find it in my heart to undervalue
noooo nooo noo noooooo, noo noooo noo nooo no no no noooo no nooooooooo

even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or those other
nooo n nooooooooooo no nooo noooooooooo n nooo-noooo; no noooo noooo

creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of footmanism
noooooooo no noooooo noooo no noo noooo, noo nooo n nooooo no nooooooooo

quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso of
noooo noooooooooooo no noooo noooooo, noo nooo nooooo noo noooo no

a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate
n nooooooo nooooo nooooooooo nooooo no noooooo no noo nooooooooo

possessions yet owned and rented in his name.
noooooooooo noo noooo noo nooooo no noo nooo.




I say, we good Presbyterian Christians should be charitable in these
N noo, no nooo Nooooooooooo Nooooooooo nooooo no nooooooooo no noooo

things, and not fancy ourselves so vastly superior to other mortals,
nooooo, noo noo noooo noooooooo no nooooo nooooooo no noooo noooooo,

pagans and what not, because of their half-crazy conceits on these
nooooo noo nooo noo, noooooo no noooo nooo-noooo nooooooo no noooo

subjects. There was Queequeg, now, certainly entertaining the most
nooooooo. Noooo noo Nooooooo, noo, noooooooo nooooooooooo noo nooo

absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan;--but what of that? Queequeg
nooooo noooooo noooo Nooo noo noo Noooooo;--noo nooo no nooo? Nooooooo

thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be content;
noooooo no nooo nooo no noo noooo, N noooooo; no nooooo no no noooooo;

and there let him rest. All our arguing with him would not avail; let
noo noooo noo noo nooo. Noo noo noooooo nooo noo noooo noo noooo; noo

him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all--Presbyterians and Pagans
noo no, N noo: noo Nooooo nooo noooo no no noo--Noooooooooooo noo Nooooo

alike--for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and
noooo--noo no noo noo noooooo nooooooooo noooooo noooo noo nooo, noo

sadly need mending.
noooo nooo noooooo.




Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances and
Noooooo noooooo, nooo N nooo noooooo nooo noo noo nooooooooooo noo

rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but
noooooo nooo no nooo, N nooo no no noo nooo noo noooooo no noo nooo; noo

no answer. I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside. "Queequeg,"
no nooooo. N noooo no nooo no, noo no noo nooooooo nooooo. "Nooooooo,"

said I softly through the key-hole:--all silent. "I say, Queequeg! why
nooo N nooooo noooooo noo noo-nooo:--noo nooooo. "N noo, Nooooooo! noo

don't you speak? It's I--Ishmael." But all remained still as before. I
noo'n noo noooo? No'n N--Noooooo." Noo noo nooooooo noooo no nooooo. N

began to grow alarmed. I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought
noooo no nooo noooooo. N noo noooooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo; N noooooo

he might have had an apoplectic fit. I looked through the key-hole; but
no noooo nooo noo no nooooooooo noo. N nooooo noooooo noo noo-nooo; noo

the door opening into an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect
noo nooo noooooo nooo no noo nooooo no noo nooo, noo noo-nooo nooooooo

was but a crooked and sinister one. I could only see part of the
noo noo n noooooo noo nooooooo noo. N noooo nooo noo nooo no noo

foot-board of the bed and a line of the wall, but nothing more. I
nooo-noooo no noo noo noo n nooo no noo nooo, noo noooooo nooo. N

was surprised to behold resting against the wall the wooden shaft of
noo noooooooo no nooooo noooooo noooooo noo nooo noo nooooo noooo no

Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening previous had taken
Nooooooo'n noooooo, noooo noo nooooooo noo noooooo nooooooo noo noooo

from him, before our mounting to the chamber. That's strange, thought I;
nooo noo, nooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooooo. Nooo'n noooooo, noooooo N;

but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he seldom or
noo no noo nooo, noooo noo noooooo nooooo nooooo, noo no nooooo no

never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here, and no
noooo nooo nooooo noooooo no, noooooooo no nooo no nooooo nooo, noo no

possible mistake.
nooooooo noooooo.




"Queequeg!--Queequeg!"--all still. Something must have happened.
"Nooooooo!--Nooooooo!"--noo noooo. Noooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo.

Apoplexy! I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted.
Nooooooo! N noooo no noooo nooo noo nooo; noo no nooooooooo nooooooo.

Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first person
Noooooo nooo nooooo, N noooooo nooooo no nooooooooo no noo noooo nooooo

I met--the chamber-maid. "La! la!" she cried, "I thought something must
N noo--noo noooooo-nooo. "No! no!" noo noooo, "N noooooo noooooooo nooo

be the matter. I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door was
no noo nooooo. N nooo no nooo noo noo noooo noooooooo, noo noo nooo noo

locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it's been just so silent ever
nooooo; noo noo n noooo no no noooo; noo no'n nooo nooo no nooooo nooo

since. But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your
noooo. Noo N noooooo, noo no, noo noo nooo nooo noo noo nooooo nooo

baggage in for safe keeping. La! la, ma'am!--Mistress! murder! Mrs.
noooooo no noo nooo noooooo. No! no, no'no!--Nooooooo! nooooo! Noo.

Hussey! apoplexy!"--and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I
Nooooo! nooooooo!"--noo nooo noooo noooo, noo noo noooooo noo noooooo, N

following.
noooooooo.




Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a
Noo. Nooooo nooo nooooooo, nooo n noooooo-noo no noo nooo noo n

vinegar-cruet in the other, having just broken away from the occupation
noooooo-noooo no noo noooo, nooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooooo

of attending to the castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime.
no noooooooo no noo noooooo, noo nooooooo noo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo.




"Wood-house!" cried I, "which way to it? Run for God's sake, and fetch
"Nooo-noooo!" noooo N, "noooo noo no no? Noo noo Noo'n nooo, noo noooo

something to pry open the door--the axe!--the axe! he's had a stroke;
noooooooo no noo nooo noo nooo--noo noo!--noo noo! no'n noo n nooooo;

depend upon it!"--and so saying I was unmethodically rushing up stairs
nooooo nooo no!"--noo no nooooo N noo nooooooooooooo noooooo no nooooo

again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey interposed the mustard-pot and
noooo noooo-nooooo, nooo Noo. Nooooo nooooooooo noo noooooo-noo noo

vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her countenance.
noooooo-noooo, noo noo nooooo nooooo no noo noooooooooo.




"What's the matter with you, young man?"
"Nooo'n noo nooooo nooo noo, noooo noo?"




"Get the axe! For God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry
"Noo noo noo! Noo Noo'n nooo, noo noo noo nooooo, nooo noo, noooo N noo

it open!"
no nooo!"




"Look here," said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet,
"Nooo nooo," nooo noo nooooooo, noooooo noooooo nooo noo noooooo-noooo,

so as to have one hand free; "look here; are you talking about prying
no no no nooo noo nooo nooo; "nooo nooo; noo noo noooooo noooo nooooo

open any of my doors?"--and with that she seized my arm. "What's the
nooo noo no no noooo?"--noo nooo nooo noo nooooo no noo. "Nooo'n noo

matter with you? What's the matter with you, shipmate?"
nooooo nooo noo? Nooo'n noo nooooo nooo noo, nooooooo?"




In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I gave her to understand the
No no nooo, noo noooo n nooooo no nooooooo, N nooo noo no nooooooooo noo

whole case. Unconsciously clapping the vinegar-cruet to one side of her
noooo nooo. Noooooooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo-noooo no noo nooo no noo

nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed--"No! I haven't seen
nooo, noo noooooooo noo no noooooo; nooo noooooooo--"No! N noooo'n nooo

it since I put it there." Running to a little closet under the landing
no noooo N noo no noooo." Noooooo no n nooooo nooooo noooo noo noooooo

of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's
no noo nooooo, noo noooooo no, noo noooooooo, nooo no nooo Nooooooo'n

harpoon was missing. "He's killed himself," she cried. "It's unfort'nate
noooooo noo noooooo. "No'n nooooo noooooo," noo noooo. "No'n nooooo'nooo

Stiggs done over again there goes another counterpane--God pity his poor
Nooooo nooo nooo noooo noooo nooo noooooo noooooooooo--Noo nooo noo nooo

mother!--it will be the ruin of my house. Has the poor lad a sister?
nooooo!--no nooo no noo nooo no no noooo. Noo noo nooo noo n nooooo?

Where's that girl?--there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell
Noooo'n nooo nooo?--noooo, Noooo, no no Noooooo noo Noooooo, noo nooo

him to paint me a sign, with--"no suicides permitted here, and no
noo no noooo no n nooo, nooo--"no nooooooo noooooooo nooo, noo no

smoking in the parlor;"--might as well kill both birds at once. Kill?
noooooo no noo nooooo;"--noooo no nooo nooo nooo noooo no nooo. Nooo?

The Lord be merciful to his ghost! What's that noise there? You, young
Noo Nooo no nooooooo no noo noooo! Nooo'n nooo noooo noooo? Noo, noooo

man, avast there!"
noo, noooo noooo!"




And running up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force
Noo noooooo no noooo no, noo nooooo no no N noo noooo nooooo no noooo

open the door.
nooo noo nooo.




"I don't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled. Go for the
"N noo'n noooo no; N noo'n nooo no nooooooo noooooo. No noo noo

locksmith, there's one about a mile from here. But avast!" putting her
noooooooo, noooo'n noo noooo n nooo nooo nooo. Noo noooo!" noooooo noo

hand in her side-pocket, "here's a key that'll fit, I guess; let's
nooo no noo nooo-nooooo, "nooo'n n noo nooo'no noo, N noooo; noo'n

see." And with that, she turned it in the lock; but, alas! Queequeg's
noo." Noo nooo nooo, noo nooooo no no noo nooo; noo, nooo! Nooooooo'n

supplemental bolt remained unwithdrawn within.
nooooooooooo nooo nooooooo noooooooooo nooooo.




"Have to burst it open," said I, and was running down the entry a
"Nooo no noooo no nooo," nooo N, noo noo noooooo nooo noo noooo n

little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again vowing
nooooo, noo n nooo noooo, nooo noo nooooooo nooooo no no, noooo nooooo

I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
N nooooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooooo; noo N nooo nooo noo, noo nooo n

sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.
nooooo nooooo nooo nooooo nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooo.




With a prodigious noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming
Nooo n nooooooooo noooo noo nooo nooo nooo, noo noo nooo nooooooo

against the wall, sent the plaster to the ceiling; and there, good
noooooo noo nooo, nooo noo noooooo no noo noooooo; noo noooo, nooo

heavens! there sat Queequeg, altogether cool and self-collected; right
noooooo! noooo noo Nooooooo, nooooooooo nooo noo nooo-noooooooo; noooo

in the middle of the room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on
no noo nooooo no noo nooo; noooooooo no noo nooo, noo noooooo Nooo no

top of his head. He looked neither one way nor the other way, but sat
noo no noo nooo. No nooooo noooooo noo noo noo noo noooo noo, noo noo

like a carved image with scarce a sign of active life.
nooo n nooooo noooo nooo nooooo n nooo no nooooo nooo.




"Queequeg," said I, going up to him, "Queequeg, what's the matter with
"Nooooooo," nooo N, noooo no no noo, "Nooooooo, nooo'n noo nooooo nooo

you?"
noo?"




"He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?" said the landlady.
"No nooo'n nooo n nooooo' no noo noo, noo no?" nooo noo nooooooo.




But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost felt
Noo noo no nooo, noo n nooo noooo no nooo noo no noo; N nooooo nooo

like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
nooo noooooo noo nooo, no no no nooooo noo nooooooo, noo no noo nooooo

intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained;
noooooooooo, no nooooo no noooooooo noo noooooooooo noooooooooo;

especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for upwards of
nooooooooo, no no noo noooooooooo no noo nooo noooooo no noo noooooo no

eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.
noooo no noo noooo, noooo noo noooooo noo noooooo noooo.




"Mrs. Hussey," said I, "he's ALIVE at all events; so leave us, if you
"Noo. Nooooo," nooo N, "no'n NOOOO no noo nooooo; no noooo no, no noo

please, and I will see to this strange affair myself."
nooooo, noo N nooo noo no nooo noooooo nooooo nooooo."




Closing the door upon the landlady, I endeavored to prevail upon
Noooooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo, N nooooooooo no noooooo nooo

Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain. There he sat; and all he could
Nooooooo no nooo n noooo; noo no nooo. Noooo no noo; noo noo no noooo

do--for all my polite arts and blandishments--he would not move a peg,
no--noo noo no nooooo nooo noo noooooooooooo--no noooo noo nooo n noo,

nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor notice my presence in
noo noo n nooooo nooo, noo nooo nooo no no, noo nooooo no nooooooo no

the slightest way.
noo noooooooo noo.




I wonder, thought I, if this can possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do
N nooooo, noooooo N, no nooo noo nooooooo no n nooo no noo Noooooo; no

they fast on their hams that way in his native island. It must be so;
nooo nooo no noooo nooo nooo noo no noo nooooo nooooo. No nooo no no;

yes, it's part of his creed, I suppose; well, then, let him rest; he'll
noo, no'n nooo no noo noooo, N noooooo; nooo, nooo, noo noo nooo; no'no

get up sooner or later, no doubt. It can't last for ever, thank God,
noo no nooooo no noooo, no noooo. No noo'n nooo noo nooo, noooo Noo,

and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I don't believe it's very
noo noo Noooooo nooo noooo nooo n nooo; noo N noo'n noooooo no'n nooo

punctual then.
nooooooo nooo.




I went down to supper. After sitting a long time listening to the long
N nooo nooo no nooooo. Noooo noooooo n nooo nooo noooooooo no noo nooo

stories of some sailors who had just come from a plum-pudding voyage, as
noooooo no nooo noooooo noo noo nooo nooo nooo n nooo-noooooo nooooo, no

they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in a schooner or brig,
nooo nooooo no (nooo no, n noooo noooooo-nooooo no n nooooooo no nooo,

confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean only); after
nooooooo no noo noooo no noo nooo, no noo Nooooooo Noooo nooo); noooo

listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o'clock, I went
noooooooo no noooo nooo-nooooooooo nooo nooooo nooooo n'noooo, N nooo

up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must
no nooooo no no no noo, noooooo noooo nooo no nooo nooo Nooooooo nooo

certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination. But no; there he
noooooooo nooo noooooo noo Noooooo no n noooooooooo. Noo no; noooo no

was just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch. I began to
noo nooo noooo N noo nooo noo; no noo noo noooooo no nooo. N noooo no

grow vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to be
nooo noooo nooo noo; no nooooo no noooooooo noooooooo noo nooooo no no

sitting there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room,
noooooo noooo noo noo noo nooo noo noooo no noo nooo no n nooo nooo,

holding a piece of wood on his head.
noooooo n noooo no nooo no noo nooo.




"For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself; get up and have
"Noo nooooo'n nooo, Nooooooo, noo no noo noooo nooooooo; noo no noo nooo

some supper. You'll starve; you'll kill yourself, Queequeg." But not a
nooo nooooo. Noo'no nooooo; noo'no nooo nooooooo, Nooooooo." Noo noo n

word did he reply.
nooo noo no noooo.




Despairing of him, therefore, I determined to go to bed and to sleep;
Nooooooooo no noo, noooooooo, N nooooooooo no no no noo noo no noooo;

and no doubt, before a great while, he would follow me. But previous to
noo no noooo, nooooo n noooo noooo, no noooo nooooo no. Noo nooooooo no

turning in, I took my heavy bearskin jacket, and threw it over him, as
noooooo no, N nooo no noooo nooooooo nooooo, noo noooo no nooo noo, no

it promised to be a very cold night; and he had nothing but his ordinary
no nooooooo no no n nooo nooo noooo; noo no noo noooooo noo noo nooooooo

round jacket on. For some time, do all I would, I could not get into
noooo nooooo no. Noo nooo nooo, no noo N noooo, N noooo noo noo nooo

the faintest doze. I had blown out the candle; and the mere thought
noo nooooooo nooo. N noo noooo noo noo nooooo; noo noo nooo noooooo

of Queequeg--not four feet off--sitting there in that uneasy position,
no Nooooooo--noo nooo nooo noo--noooooo noooo no nooo nooooo nooooooo,

stark alone in the cold and dark; this made me really wretched. Think of
noooo noooo no noo nooo noo nooo; nooo nooo no nooooo nooooooo. Noooo no

it; sleeping all night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his
no; nooooooo noo noooo no noo nooo nooo nooo n nooo noooo noooo no noo

hams in this dreary, unaccountable Ramadan!
nooo no nooo nooooo, noooooooooooo Noooooo!




But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing more till break of
Noo noooooo N noooooo noo no nooo, noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo noooo no

day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted Queequeg, as if he
noo; nooo, noooooo nooo noo noooooo, noooo nooooooo Nooooooo, no no no

had been screwed down to the floor. But as soon as the first glimpse of
noo nooo noooooo nooo no noo noooo. Noo no nooo no noo noooo noooooo no

sun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating joints,
noo noooooo noo nooooo, no no noo, nooo noooo noo noooooo nooooo,

but with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed his
noo nooo n nooooooo nooo; nooooo noooooo no noooo N noo; noooooo noo

forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.
nooooooo noooo noooooo nooo; noo nooo noo Noooooo noo nooo.




Now, as I before hinted, I have no objection to any person's religion,
Noo, no N nooooo nooooo, N nooo no noooooooo no noo nooooo'n nooooooo,

be it what it may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any
no no nooo no noo, no nooo no nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo no nooooo noo

other person, because that other person don't believe it also. But when
noooo nooooo, noooooo nooo noooo nooooo noo'n noooooo no nooo. Noo nooo

a man's religion becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment
n noo'n nooooooo noooooo nooooo noooooo; nooo no no n nooooooo noooooo

to him; and, in fine, makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to
no noo; noo, no nooo, noooo nooo noooo no nooo no noooooooooooo noo no

lodge in; then I think it high time to take that individual aside and
noooo no; nooo N noooo no nooo nooo no nooo nooo nooooooooo noooo noo

argue the point with him.
noooo noo noooo nooo noo.




And just so I now did with Queequeg. "Queequeg," said I, "get into bed
Noo nooo no N noo noo nooo Nooooooo. "Nooooooo," nooo N, "noo nooo noo

now, and lie and listen to me." I then went on, beginning with the rise
noo, noo noo noo nooooo no no." N nooo nooo no, noooooooo nooo noo nooo

and progress of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various
noo nooooooo no noo noooooooo noooooooo, noo nooooo nooo no noo noooooo

religions of the present time, during which time I labored to show
noooooooo no noo noooooo nooo, nooooo noooo nooo N noooooo no nooo

Queequeg that all these Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings in
Nooooooo nooo noo noooo Noooo, Nooooooo, noo noooooooo noo-nooooooooo no

cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless
nooo, noooooooo noooo nooo noooo nooooooo; noo noo noo nooooo; noooooo

for the soul; opposed, in short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and
noo noo nooo; noooooo, no noooo, no noo noooooo nooo no Noooooo noo

common sense. I told him, too, that he being in other things such an
nooooo noooo. N nooo noo, noo, nooo no noooo no noooo nooooo nooo no

extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me, very badly pained
noooooooo nooooooo noo noooooooo nooooo, no nooooo no, nooo noooo nooooo

me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculous Ramadan
no, no noo noo noo no nooooooooo noooooo noooo nooo nooooooooo Noooooo

of his. Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body cave in; hence the
no noo. Noooooo, nooooo N, noooooo noooo noo nooo nooo no; noooo noo

spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must necessarily be
nooooo noooo no; noo noo nooooooo nooo no n nooo nooo noooooooooo no

half-starved. This is the reason why most dyspeptic religionists cherish
nooo-noooooo. Nooo no noo nooooo noo nooo noooooooo nooooooooooo noooooo

such melancholy notions about their hereafters. In one word, Queequeg,
nooo nooooooooo noooooo noooo noooo nooooooooo. No noo nooo, Nooooooo,

said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on an undigested
nooo N, nooooo nooooooooooo; nooo no no nooo noooo nooo no no nooooooooo

apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the hereditary
noooo-nooooooo; noo noooo nooo noooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooooo

dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.
nooooooooo nooooooo no Nooooooo.




I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with
N nooo noooo Nooooooo noooooo no noooooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo

dyspepsia; expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it
noooooooo; nooooooooo noo nooo nooo noooooo, no nooo no noooo nooo no

in. He said no; only upon one memorable occasion. It was after a great
no. No nooo no; nooo nooo noo noooooooo nooooooo. No noo noooo n noooo

feast given by his father the king, on the gaining of a great battle
noooo noooo no noo nooooo noo nooo, no noo noooooo no n noooo nooooo

wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o'clock in the
noooooo noooo no noo noooo noo nooo nooooo no noooo noo n'noooo no noo

afternoon, and all cooked and eaten that very evening.
noooooooo, noo noo nooooo noo noooo nooo nooo noooooo.




"No more, Queequeg," said I, shuddering; "that will do;" for I knew the
"No nooo, Nooooooo," nooo N, nooooooooo; "nooo nooo no;" noo N nooo noo

inferences without his further hinting them. I had seen a sailor who had
nooooooooo noooooo noo noooooo noooooo nooo. N noo nooo n nooooo noo noo

visited that very island, and he told me that it was the custom, when
noooooo nooo nooo nooooo, noo no nooo no nooo no noo noo nooooo, nooo

a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain in the
n noooo nooooo noo nooo nooooo noooo, no nooooooo noo noo noooo no noo

yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were placed
nooo no nooooo no noo nooooo; noo nooo, noo no noo, nooo nooo nooooo

in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, with
no noooo nooooo noooooooo, noo noooooooo noooo nooo n noooo, nooo

breadfruit and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, were
nooooooooo noo noooooooo; noo nooo nooo noooooo no noooo nooooo, nooo

sent round with the victor's compliments to all his friends, just as
nooo noooo nooo noo nooooo'n noooooooooo no noo noo noooooo, nooo no

though these presents were so many Christmas turkeys.
nooooo noooo nooooooo nooo no nooo Noooooooo noooooo.




After all, I do not think that my remarks about religion made much
Noooo noo, N no noo noooo nooo no noooooo noooo nooooooo nooo nooo

impression upon Queequeg. Because, in the first place, he somehow seemed
nooooooooo nooo Nooooooo. Noooooo, no noo noooo noooo, no noooooo nooooo

dull of hearing on that important subject, unless considered from his
nooo no noooooo no nooo noooooooo noooooo, nooooo nooooooooo nooo noo

own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not more than one
noo noooo no nooo; noo, no noo nooooo noooo, no noo noo nooo nooo noo

third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and, finally, he
noooo nooooooooo no, noooo no noooo nooooo no N noooo; noo, noooooo, no

no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion than
no noooo noooooo no nooo n nooo nooo nooo noooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo

I did. He looked at me with a sort of condescending concern and
N noo. No nooooo no no nooo n nooo no noooooooooooo noooooo noo

compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible
nooooooooo, no nooooo no noooooo no n noooo nooo nooo nooo n nooooooo

young man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan piety.
noooo noo nooooo no no nooooooooo nooo no noooooooooo noooo noooo.




At last we rose and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty
No nooo no nooo noo noooooo; noo Nooooooo, nooooo n nooooooooooo nooooo

breakfast of chowders of all sorts, so that the landlady should not
noooooooo no nooooooo no noo noooo, no nooo noo nooooooo nooooo noo

make much profit by reason of his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the
nooo nooo nooooo no nooooo no noo Noooooo, no noooooo noo no noooo noo

Pequod, sauntering along, and picking our teeth with halibut bones.
Nooooo, nooooooooo noooo, noo noooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo noooo.










CHAPTER 18. His Mark.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooo.







As we were walking down the end of the wharf towards the ship, Queequeg
No no nooo noooooo nooo noo noo no noo noooo noooooo noo nooo, Nooooooo

carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff voice loudly hailed us
nooooooo noo noooooo, Noooooo Noooo no noo noooo noooo nooooo nooooo no

from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal,
nooo noo nooooo, nooooo no noo noo noooooooo no nooooo noo n nooooooo,

and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board that craft,
noo noooooooooo nooooooooo nooo no noo no noooooooo no noooo nooo noooo,

unless they previously produced their papers.
nooooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo noooo nooooo.




"What do you mean by that, Captain Peleg?" said I, now jumping on the
"Nooo no noo nooo no nooo, Noooooo Noooo?" nooo N, noo noooooo no noo

bulwarks, and leaving my comrade standing on the wharf.
nooooooo, noo noooooo no noooooo nooooooo no noo noooo.




"I mean," he replied, "he must show his papers."
"N nooo," no noooooo, "no nooo nooo noo nooooo."




"Yes," said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head from
"Noo," nooo Noooooo Nooooo no noo nooooo noooo, nooooooo noo nooo nooo

behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam. "He must show that he's converted.
nooooo Noooo'n, noo no noo nooooo. "No nooo nooo nooo no'n noooooooo.

Son of darkness," he added, turning to Queequeg, "art thou at present in
Noo no nooooooo," no noooo, noooooo no Nooooooo, "noo nooo no noooooo no

communion with any Christian church?"
noooooooo nooo noo Noooooooo nooooo?"




"Why," said I, "he's a member of the first Congregational Church." Here
"Noo," nooo N, "no'n n nooooo no noo noooo Nooooooooooooo Nooooo." Nooo

be it said, that many tattooed savages sailing in Nantucket ships at
no no nooo, nooo nooo nooooooo noooooo noooooo no Noooooooo noooo no

last come to be converted into the churches.
nooo nooo no no noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo.




"First Congregational Church," cried Bildad, "what! that worships in
"Noooo Nooooooooooooo Nooooo," noooo Nooooo, "nooo! nooo nooooooo no

Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?" and so saying, taking
Nooooo Noooooooooo Noooooo'n noooooo-noooo?" noo no nooooo, nooooo

out his spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana
noo noo nooooooooo, no nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo nooooo noooooo

handkerchief, and putting them on very carefully, came out of the
nooooooooooo, noo noooooo nooo no nooo noooooooo, nooo noo no noo

wigwam, and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good long look at
nooooo, noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo, nooo n nooo nooo nooo no

Queequeg.
Nooooooo.




"How long hath he been a member?" he then said, turning to me; "not very
"Noo nooo nooo no nooo n nooooo?" no nooo nooo, noooooo no no; "noo nooo

long, I rather guess, young man."
nooo, N nooooo noooo, noooo noo."




"No," said Peleg, "and he hasn't been baptized right either, or it would
"No," nooo Noooo, "noo no nooo'n nooo nooooooo noooo nooooo, no no noooo

have washed some of that devil's blue off his face."
nooo nooooo nooo no nooo noooo'n nooo noo noo nooo."




"Do tell, now," cried Bildad, "is this Philistine a regular member of
"No nooo, noo," noooo Nooooo, "no nooo Nooooooooo n noooooo nooooo no

Deacon Deuteronomy's meeting? I never saw him going there, and I pass it
Nooooo Noooooooooo'n noooooo? N noooo noo noo noooo noooo, noo N nooo no

every Lord's day."
noooo Nooo'n noo."




"I don't know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeting," said
"N noo'n nooo nooooooo noooo Nooooo Noooooooooo no noo noooooo," nooo

I; "all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First
N; "noo N nooo no, nooo Nooooooo nooo no n nooo nooooo no noo Noooo

Congregational Church. He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is."
Nooooooooooooo Nooooo. No no n nooooo noooooo, Nooooooo no."




"Young man," said Bildad sternly, "thou art skylarking with me--explain
"Noooo noo," nooo Nooooo noooooo, "nooo noo nooooooooo nooo no--noooooo

thyself, thou young Hittite. What church dost thee mean? answer me."
noooooo, nooo noooo Noooooo. Nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooo? nooooo no."




Finding myself thus hard pushed, I replied. "I mean, sir, the same
Noooooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooo, N noooooo. "N nooo, noo, noo nooo

ancient Catholic Church to which you and I, and Captain Peleg there,
noooooo Nooooooo Nooooo no noooo noo noo N, noo Noooooo Noooo noooo,

and Queequeg here, and all of us, and every mother's son and soul of
noo Nooooooo nooo, noo noo no no, noo noooo nooooo'n noo noo nooo no

us belong; the great and everlasting First Congregation of this whole
no nooooo; noo noooo noo noooooooooo Noooo Nooooooooooo no nooo noooo

worshipping world; we all belong to that; only some of us cherish some
noooooooooo noooo; no noo nooooo no nooo; nooo nooo no no noooooo nooo

queer crotchets no ways touching the grand belief; in THAT we all join
noooo noooooooo no nooo nooooooo noo noooo nooooo; no NOOO no noo nooo

hands."
noooo."




"Splice, thou mean'st SPLICE hands," cried Peleg, drawing nearer. "Young
"Nooooo, nooo nooo'no NOOOOO noooo," noooo Noooo, noooooo nooooo. "Noooo

man, you'd better ship for a missionary, instead of a fore-mast hand;
noo, noo'n nooooo nooo noo n nooooooooo, noooooo no n nooo-nooo nooo;

I never heard a better sermon. Deacon Deuteronomy--why Father Mapple
N noooo noooo n nooooo nooooo. Nooooo Noooooooooo--noo Nooooo Nooooo

himself couldn't beat it, and he's reckoned something. Come aboard, come
noooooo nooooo'n nooo no, noo no'n nooooooo noooooooo. Nooo nooooo, nooo

aboard; never mind about the papers. I say, tell Quohog there--what's
nooooo; noooo nooo noooo noo nooooo. N noo, nooo Nooooo noooo--nooo'n

that you call him? tell Quohog to step along. By the great anchor, what
nooo noo nooo noo? nooo Nooooo no nooo noooo. No noo noooo nooooo, nooo

a harpoon he's got there! looks like good stuff that; and he handles it
n noooooo no'n noo noooo! noooo nooo nooo noooo nooo; noo no noooooo no

about right. I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did you ever stand
noooo noooo. N noo, Nooooo, no nooooooo nooo nooo no, noo noo nooo noooo

in the head of a whale-boat? did you ever strike a fish?"
no noo nooo no n noooo-nooo? noo noo nooo nooooo n nooo?"




Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon
Noooooo nooooo n nooo, Nooooooo, no noo nooo nooo no noo, nooooo nooo

the bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats
noo nooooooo, nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo no noo no noo noooo-noooo

hanging to the side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his
noooooo no noo nooo; noo nooo noooooo noo nooo nooo, noo noooooo noo

harpoon, cried out in some such way as this:--
noooooo, noooo noo no nooo nooo noo no nooo:--




"Cap'ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere? You see him? well,
"Noo'noo, noo noo noo noooo nooo noo no noooo nooo? Noo noo noo? nooo,

spose him one whale eye, well, den!" and taking sharp aim at it, he
noooo noo noo noooo noo, nooo, noo!" noo nooooo noooo noo no no, no

darted the iron right over old Bildad's broad brim, clean across the
nooooo noo nooo noooo nooo noo Nooooo'n noooo nooo, noooo nooooo noo

ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.
nooo'n noooo, noo nooooo noo nooooooooo noo nooo noo no noooo.




"Now," said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, "spos-ee him whale-e
"Noo," nooo Nooooooo, noooooo noooooo no noo nooo, "nooo-no noo noooo-n

eye; why, dad whale dead."
noo; noo, noo noooo nooo."




"Quick, Bildad," said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the close
"Noooo, Nooooo," nooo Noooo, noo noooooo, noo, nooooo no noo noooo

vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway.
nooooooo no noo nooooo noooooo, noo noooooooo noooooo noo noooo noooooo.

"Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers. We must have
"Noooo, N noo, noo Nooooo, noo noo noo nooo'n nooooo. No nooo nooo

Hedgehog there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats. Look ye, Quohog,
Nooooooo noooo, N nooo Nooooo, no noo no noo noooo. Nooo no, Nooooo,

we'll give ye the ninetieth lay, and that's more than ever was given a
no'no nooo no noo noooooooo noo, noo nooo'n nooo nooo nooo noo noooo n

harpooneer yet out of Nantucket."
nooooooooo noo noo no Noooooooo."




So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg was soon
No nooo no nooo nooo noo noooo, noo no no noooo noo Nooooooo noo nooo

enrolled among the same ship's company to which I myself belonged.
nooooooo noooo noo nooo nooo'n noooooo no noooo N nooooo nooooooo.




When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
Nooo noo noooooooooooo nooo nooo noo Noooo noo noo nooooooooo noooo noo

signing, he turned to me and said, "I guess, Quohog there don't know how
noooooo, no nooooo no no noo nooo, "N noooo, Nooooo noooo noo'n nooo noo

to write, does he? I say, Quohog, blast ye! dost thou sign thy name or
no noooo, nooo no? N noo, Nooooo, noooo no! nooo nooo nooo noo nooo no

make thy mark?"
nooo noo nooo?"




But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
Noo no nooo nooooooo, Nooooooo, noo noo noooo no nooooo nooooo noooo

part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the
nooo no noooooo nooooooooo, nooooo no nooo noooooo; noo nooooo noo

offered pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact
noooooo noo, nooooo nooo noo noooo, no noo nooooo noooo, no noooo

counterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so
noooooooooo no n noooo noooo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo noo noo; no

that through Captain Peleg's obstinate mistake touching his appellative,
nooo noooooo Noooooo Noooo'n noooooooo noooooo nooooooo noo noooooooooo,

it stood something like this:--
no noooo noooooooo nooo nooo:--




Quohog. his X mark.
Nooooo. noo N nooo.




Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing Queequeg,
Noooooooo Noooooo Nooooo noo noooooooo noo noooooooooo nooooo Nooooooo,

and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the huge pockets of his
noo no nooo nooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo noooooo no noo

broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting
noooo-noooooo nooo nooo, nooo noo n nooooo no nooooo, noo noooooooo

one entitled "The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose," placed it in
noo nooooooo "Noo Nooooo Noo Nooooo; no No Nooo no Nooo," nooooo no no

Queequeg's hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
Nooooooo'n noooo, noo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noo nooo nooo nooo noo,

looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, "Son of darkness, I must do my
nooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo, "Noo no nooooooo, N nooo no no

duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the
nooo no nooo; N no nooo noooo no nooo nooo, noo nooo noooooooo noo noo

souls of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, which I
noooo no noo noo nooo; no nooo noooo nooooooo no noo Noooo nooo, noooo N

sadly fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman. Spurn
noooo nooo, N noooooo nooo, nooooo noo noo noo n Nooooo nooooooo. Noooo

the idol Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the wrath to come; mind
noo nooo Nooo, noo noo noooooo nooooo; nooo nooo noo noooo no nooo; nooo

thine eye, I say; oh! goodness gracious! steer clear of the fiery pit!"
noooo noo, N noo; no! nooooooo nooooooo! noooo noooo no noo noooo noo!"




Something of the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's language,
Noooooooo no noo nooo noo noo nooooooo no noo Nooooo'n nooooooo,

heterogeneously mixed with Scriptural and domestic phrases.
noooooooooooooo noooo nooo Nooooooooo noo nooooooo noooooo.




"Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now spoiling our harpooneer,"
"Noooo noooo, noooo noooo, Nooooo, noooo noo nooooooo noo nooooooooo,"

cried Peleg. "Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers--it takes the shark
noooo Noooo. "Noooo noooooooooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo--no noooo noo noooo

out of 'em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.
noo no 'no; no nooooooooo no noooo n noooo noo nooo nooooo nooooooo.

There was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all
Noooo noo noooo Noo Nooooo, nooo noo noooooo nooo-nooooo noo no noo

Nantucket and the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to
Noooooooo noo noo Nooooooo; no nooooo noo noooooo, noo noooo nooo no

good. He got so frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and
nooo. No noo no nooooooooo noooo noo nooooo nooo, nooo no nooooooo noo

sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps, in case he got stove
noooooo nooo nooo nooooo, noo nooo no noooo-noooo, no nooo no noo noooo

and went to Davy Jones."
noo nooo no Nooo Noooo."




"Peleg! Peleg!" said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, "thou thyself,
"Noooo! Noooo!" nooo Nooooo, noooooo noo nooo noo noooo, "nooo noooooo,

as I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what
no N nooooo, nooo nooo nooo n nooooooo nooo; nooo noooooo, Noooo, nooo

it is to have the fear of death; how, then, can'st thou prate in this
no no no nooo noo nooo no noooo; noo, nooo, noo'no nooo noooo no nooo

ungodly guise. Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg. Tell me, when this
noooooo noooo. Nooo noooooo noooo noo noooo, Noooo. Nooo no, nooo nooo

same Pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan,
nooo Nooooo nooo noo noo noooo noooo noooooooo no nooo noooooo no Noooo,

that same voyage when thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did'st thou not
nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo Noooooo Nooo, noo'no nooo noo

think of Death and the Judgment then?"
noooo no Noooo noo noo Nooooooo nooo?"




"Hear him, hear him now," cried Peleg, marching across the cabin, and
"Nooo noo, nooo noo noo," noooo Noooo, nooooooo nooooo noo noooo, noo

thrusting his hands far down into his pockets,--"hear him, all of ye.
noooooooo noo noooo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo,--"nooo noo, noo no no.

Think of that! When every moment we thought the ship would sink!
Noooo no nooo! Nooo noooo nooooo no noooooo noo nooo noooo nooo!

Death and the Judgment then? What? With all three masts making such an
Noooo noo noo Nooooooo nooo? Nooo? Nooo noo noooo noooo nooooo nooo no

everlasting thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us,
noooooooooo nooooooooo noooooo noo nooo; noo noooo noo nooooooo nooo no,

fore and aft. Think of Death and the Judgment then? No! no time to think
nooo noo noo. Noooo no Noooo noo noo Nooooooo nooo? No! no nooo no noooo

about Death then. Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking of;
noooo Noooo nooo. Nooo noo nooo Noooooo Nooo noo N noo nooooooo no;

and how to save all hands--how to rig jury-masts--how to get into the
noo noo no nooo noo noooo--noo no noo nooo-noooo--noo no noo nooo noo

nearest port; that was what I was thinking of."
noooooo nooo; nooo noo nooo N noo nooooooo no."




Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on deck,
Nooooo nooo no nooo, noo noooooooo no noo nooo, noooooo no nooo,

where we followed him. There he stood, very quietly overlooking some
noooo no nooooooo noo. Noooo no noooo, nooo noooooo noooooooooo nooo

sailmakers who were mending a top-sail in the waist. Now and then
nooooooooo noo nooo noooooo n noo-nooo no noo noooo. Noo noo nooo

he stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which
no noooooo no nooo no n noooo, no nooo no noo no nooooo noooo, noooo

otherwise might have been wasted.
noooooooo noooo nooo nooo nooooo.










CHAPTER 19. The Prophet.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooo.







"Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?"
"Noooooooo, nooo no noooooo no nooo nooo?"




Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from
Nooooooo noo N noo nooo nooo noo Nooooo, noo nooo nooooooooo nooo nooo

the water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when
noo noooo, noo noo nooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noo nooooooo, nooo

the above words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us,
noo noooo noooo nooo noo no no no n nooooooo, noo, noooooo nooooo no,

levelled his massive forefinger at the vessel in question. He was but
nooooooo noo noooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo no nooooooo. No noo noo

shabbily apparelled in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a
nooooooo nooooooooo no noooo nooooo noo noooooo nooooooo; n noo no n

black handkerchief investing his neck. A confluent small-pox had in all
noooo nooooooooooo noooooooo noo nooo. N noooooooo noooo-noo noo no noo

directions flowed over his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed
nooooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo no nooo noo noooooooooo nooooo

bed of a torrent, when the rushing waters have been dried up.
noo no n noooooo, nooo noo noooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo no.




"Have ye shipped in her?" he repeated.
"Nooo no noooooo no noo?" no nooooooo.




"You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose," said I, trying to gain a little
"Noo nooo noo nooo Nooooo, N noooooo," nooo N, nooooo no nooo n nooooo

more time for an uninterrupted look at him.
nooo nooo noo no noooooooooooo nooo no noo.




"Aye, the Pequod--that ship there," he said, drawing back his whole
"Noo, noo Nooooo--nooo nooo noooo," no nooo, noooooo nooo noo noooo

arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with the fixed
noo, noo nooo noooooo noooooo no nooooooo noo nooo noo, nooo noo noooo

bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the object.
noooooo no noo noooooo nooooo nooooo nooo no noo nooooo.




"Yes," said I, "we have just signed the articles."
"Noo," nooo N, "no nooo nooo nooooo noo nooooooo."




"Anything down there about your souls?"
"Nooooooo nooo noooo noooo nooo noooo?"




"About what?"
"Noooo nooo?"




"Oh, perhaps you hav'n't got any," he said quickly. "No matter though,
"No, noooooo noo noo'n'n noo noo," no nooo noooooo. "No nooooo nooooo,

I know many chaps that hav'n't got any,--good luck to 'em; and they are
N nooo nooo noooo nooo noo'n'n noo noo,--nooo nooo no 'no; noo nooo noo

all the better off for it. A soul's a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon."
noo noo nooooo noo noo no. N nooo'n n nooo no n noooo noooo no n noooo."




"What are you jabbering about, shipmate?" said I.
"Nooo noo noo noooooooo noooo, nooooooo?" nooo N.




"HE'S got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort
"NO'N noo nooooo, nooooo, no nooo no noo noo nooooooooooo no nooo nooo

in other chaps," abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis
no noooo noooo," nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo, noooooo n noooooo nooooooo

upon the word HE.
nooo noo nooo NO.




"Queequeg," said I, "let's go; this fellow has broken loose from
"Nooooooo," nooo N, "noo'n no; nooo nooooo noo nooooo noooo nooo

somewhere; he's talking about something and somebody we don't know."
noooooooo; no'n noooooo noooo noooooooo noo nooooooo no noo'n nooo."




"Stop!" cried the stranger. "Ye said true--ye hav'n't seen Old Thunder
"Nooo!" noooo noo nooooooo. "No nooo nooo--no noo'n'n nooo Noo Noooooo

yet, have ye?"
noo, nooo no?"




"Who's Old Thunder?" said I, again riveted with the insane earnestness
"Noo'n Noo Noooooo?" nooo N, noooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo noooooooooo

of his manner.
no noo nooooo.




"Captain Ahab."
"Noooooo Nooo."




"What! the captain of our ship, the Pequod?"
"Nooo! noo noooooo no noo nooo, noo Nooooo?"




"Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name. Ye
"Noo, noooo nooo no no noo nooooo noooo, no nooo no nooo nooo. No

hav'n't seen him yet, have ye?"
noo'n'n nooo noo noo, nooo no?"




"No, we hav'n't. He's sick they say, but is getting better, and will be
"No, no noo'n'n. No'n nooo nooo noo, noo no noooooo nooooo, noo nooo no

all right again before long."
noo noooo noooo nooooo nooo."




"All right again before long!" laughed the stranger, with a solemnly
"Noo noooo noooo nooooo nooo!" noooooo noo nooooooo, nooo n nooooooo

derisive sort of laugh. "Look ye; when Captain Ahab is all right, then
nooooooo nooo no noooo. "Nooo no; nooo Noooooo Nooo no noo noooo, nooo

this left arm of mine will be all right; not before."
nooo nooo noo no nooo nooo no noo noooo; noo nooooo."




"What do you know about him?"
"Nooo no noo nooo noooo noo?"




"What did they TELL you about him? Say that!"
"Nooo noo nooo NOOO noo noooo noo? Noo nooo!"




"They didn't tell much of anything about him; only I've heard that he's
"Nooo nooo'n nooo nooo no nooooooo noooo noo; nooo N'no noooo nooo no'n

a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew."
n nooo noooo-nooooo, noo n nooo noooooo no noo nooo."




"That's true, that's true--yes, both true enough. But you must jump when
"Nooo'n nooo, nooo'n nooo--noo, nooo nooo nooooo. Noo noo nooo nooo nooo

he gives an order. Step and growl; growl and go--that's the word with
no noooo no noooo. Nooo noo noooo; noooo noo no--nooo'n noo nooo nooo

Captain Ahab. But nothing about that thing that happened to him off Cape
Noooooo Nooo. Noo noooooo noooo nooo noooo nooo nooooooo no noo noo Nooo

Horn, long ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights;
Nooo, nooo noo, nooo no noo nooo nooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooo;

nothing about that deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in
noooooo noooo nooo nooooo noooooooo nooo noo Nooooooo noooo noo noooo no

Santa?--heard nothing about that, eh? Nothing about the silver calabash
Noooo?--noooo noooooo noooo nooo, no? Noooooo noooo noo nooooo nooooooo

he spat into? And nothing about his losing his leg last voyage,
no nooo nooo? Noo noooooo noooo noo nooooo noo noo nooo nooooo,

according to the prophecy. Didn't ye hear a word about them matters and
noooooooo no noo nooooooo. Nooo'n no nooo n nooo noooo nooo noooooo noo

something more, eh? No, I don't think ye did; how could ye? Who knows
noooooooo nooo, no? No, N noo'n noooo no noo; noo noooo no? Noo noooo

it? Not all Nantucket, I guess. But hows'ever, mayhap, ye've heard tell
no? Noo noo Noooooooo, N noooo. Noo nooo'nooo, nooooo, no'no noooo nooo

about the leg, and how he lost it; aye, ye have heard of that, I dare
noooo noo noo, noo noo no nooo no; noo, no nooo noooo no nooo, N nooo

say. Oh yes, THAT every one knows a'most--I mean they know he's only one
noo. No noo, NOOO noooo noo noooo n'nooo--N nooo nooo nooo no'n nooo noo

leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off."
noo; noo nooo n nooooooooo nooo noo noooo noo."




"My friend," said I, "what all this gibberish of yours is about, I
"No nooooo," nooo N, "nooo noo nooo noooooooo no noooo no noooo, N

don't know, and I don't much care; for it seems to me that you must be a
noo'n nooo, noo N noo'n nooo nooo; noo no noooo no no nooo noo nooo no n

little damaged in the head. But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, of
nooooo noooooo no noo nooo. Noo no noo noo nooooooo no Noooooo Nooo, no

that ship there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about
nooo nooo noooo, noo Nooooo, nooo noo no nooo noo, nooo N nooo noo noooo

the loss of his leg."
noo nooo no noo noo."




"ALL about it, eh--sure you do?--all?"
"NOO noooo no, no--nooo noo no?--noo?"




"Pretty sure."
"Nooooo nooo."




With finger pointed and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like
Nooo nooooo noooooo noo noo nooooooo no noo Nooooo, noo nooooo-nooo

stranger stood a moment, as if in a troubled reverie; then starting a
nooooooo noooo n nooooo, no no no n nooooooo noooooo; nooo nooooooo n

little, turned and said:--"Ye've shipped, have ye? Names down on the
nooooo, nooooo noo nooo:--"No'no noooooo, nooo no? Noooo nooo no noo

papers? Well, well, what's signed, is signed; and what's to be, will be;
nooooo? Nooo, nooo, nooo'n nooooo, no nooooo; noo nooo'n no no, nooo no;

and then again, perhaps it won't be, after all. Anyhow, it's all fixed
noo nooo noooo, noooooo no noo'n no, noooo noo. Nooooo, no'n noo noooo

and arranged a'ready; and some sailors or other must go with him, I
noo nooooooo n'noooo; noo nooo noooooo no noooo nooo no nooo noo, N

suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity 'em! Morning to ye,
noooooo; no nooo noooo no noo noooo noo, Noo nooo 'no! Noooooo no no,

shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I'm sorry I stopped
noooooooo, noooooo; noo noooooooo noooooo noooo no; N'n noooo N noooooo

ye."
no."




"Look here, friend," said I, "if you have anything important to tell
"Nooo nooo, nooooo," nooo N, "no noo nooo nooooooo noooooooo no nooo

us, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle us, you are
no, noo nooo no; noo no noo noo nooo nooooo no noooooooo no, noo noo

mistaken in your game; that's all I have to say."
nooooooo no nooo nooo; nooo'n noo N nooo no noo."




"And it's said very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way;
"Noo no'n nooo nooo nooo, noo N nooo no nooo n nooo nooo no nooo noo;

you are just the man for him--the likes of ye. Morning to ye, shipmates,
noo noo nooo noo noo noo noo--noo noooo no no. Noooooo no no, noooooooo,

morning! Oh! when ye get there, tell 'em I've concluded not to make one
noooooo! No! nooo no noo noooo, nooo 'no N'no noooooooo noo no nooo noo

of 'em."
no 'no."




"Ah, my dear fellow, you can't fool us that way--you can't fool us. It
"No, no nooo nooooo, noo noo'n nooo no nooo noo--noo noo'n nooo no. No

is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great
no noo noooooo noooo no noo noooo noo n noo no nooo no no no noo n noooo

secret in him."
nooooo no noo."




"Morning to ye, shipmates, morning."
"Noooooo no no, noooooooo, noooooo."




"Morning it is," said I. "Come along, Queequeg, let's leave this crazy
"Noooooo no no," nooo N. "Nooo noooo, Nooooooo, noo'n noooo nooo noooo

man. But stop, tell me your name, will you?"
noo. Noo nooo, nooo no nooo nooo, nooo noo?"




"Elijah."
"Nooooo."




Elijah! thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after each
Nooooo! noooooo N, noo no nooooo nooo, nooo nooooooooo, noooo nooo

other's fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
noooo'n noooooo, nooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo; noo nooooo nooo no noo

nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear. But we had not gone
noooooo noo n nooooo, nooooo no no n noooooo. Noo no noo noo nooo

perhaps above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and
noooooo noooo n noooooo noooo, nooo nooooooo no nooo n nooooo, noo

looking back as I did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us,
noooooo nooo no N noo no, noo nooooo no nooo noo Nooooo noooooooo no,

though at a distance. Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I
nooooo no n nooooooo. Noooooo, noo noooo no noo nooooo no no, nooo N

said nothing to Queequeg of his being behind, but passed on with my
nooo noooooo no Nooooooo no noo noooo nooooo, noo nooooo no nooo no

comrade, anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner
noooooo, noooooo no noo noooooo noo nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo nooooo

that we did. He did; and then it seemed to me that he was dogging
nooo no noo. No noo; noo nooo no nooooo no no nooo no noo noooooo

us, but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine. This
no, noo nooo nooo nooooo N noooo noo noo noo nooo no no noooooo. Nooo

circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting, half-revealing,
nooooooooooo, noooooo nooo noo noooooooo, nooo-noooooo, nooo-noooooooo,

shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments
nooooooo nooo no nooo, noo noooo no no noo noooo no noooo noooooooooo

and half-apprehensions, and all connected with the Pequod; and Captain
noo nooo-noooooooooooo, noo noo noooooooo nooo noo Nooooo; noo Noooooo

Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn fit; and the silver
Nooo; noo noo noo no noo nooo; noo noo Nooo Nooo noo; noo noo nooooo

calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left the ship
nooooooo; noo nooo Noooooo Noooo noo nooo no noo, nooo N nooo noo nooo

the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig; and the voyage
noo noo nooooooo; noo noo nooooooooo no noo noooo Nooooo; noo noo nooooo

we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy things.
no noo noooo noooooooo no nooo; noo n noooooo noooo noooooo nooooo.




I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was really
N noo nooooooo no noooooo nooooo noooooo nooo nooooo Nooooo noo nooooo

dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg,
noooooo no no noo, noo nooo nooo nooooo noooooo noo noo nooo Nooooooo,

and on that side of it retraced our steps. But Elijah passed on, without
noo no nooo nooo no no nooooooo noo noooo. Noo Nooooo nooooo no, noooooo

seeming to notice us. This relieved me; and once more, and finally as it
noooooo no nooooo no. Nooo nooooooo no; noo nooo nooo, noo noooooo no no

seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.
nooooo no no, N nooooooooo noo no no noooo, n nooooo.










CHAPTER 20. All Astir.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo.







A day or two passed, and there was great activity aboard the Pequod.
N noo no noo nooooo, noo noooo noo noooo nooooooo nooooo noo Nooooo.

Not only were the old sails being mended, but new sails were coming on
Noo nooo nooo noo noo noooo noooo nooooo, noo noo noooo nooo nooooo no

board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging; in short, everything
noooo, noo noooo no nooooo, noo noooo no noooooo; no noooo, nooooooooo

betokened that the ship's preparations were hurrying to a close. Captain
noooooooo nooo noo nooo'n nooooooooooo nooo nooooooo no n noooo. Noooooo

Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam keeping a sharp
Noooo nooooo no noooo nooo nooooo, noo noo no noo nooooo noooooo n noooo

look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing and providing
nooo-noo nooo noo noooo: Nooooo noo noo noo nooooooooo noo noooooooo

at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging were
no noo nooooo; noo noo noo nooooooo no noo nooo noo no noo noooooo nooo

working till long after night-fall.
noooooo nooo nooo noooo noooo-nooo.




On the day following Queequeg's signing the articles, word was given at
No noo noo noooooooo Nooooooo'n noooooo noo nooooooo, nooo noo noooo no

all the inns where the ship's company were stopping, that their chests
noo noo nooo noooo noo nooo'n noooooo nooo nooooooo, nooo noooo nooooo

must be on board before night, for there was no telling how soon
nooo no no noooo nooooo noooo, noo noooo noo no noooooo noo nooo

the vessel might be sailing. So Queequeg and I got down our traps,
noo nooooo noooo no noooooo. No Nooooooo noo N noo nooo noo noooo,

resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last. But it seems they
noooooooo, noooooo, no noooo nooooo nooo noo nooo. Noo no noooo nooo

always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not sail
nooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo no noooo noooo, noo noo nooo noo noo nooo

for several days. But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and
noo noooooo nooo. Noo no nooooo; noooo noo n nooo nooo no no nooo, noo

there is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod
noooo no no noooooo noo nooo nooooo no no noooooo no, nooooo noo Nooooo

was fully equipped.
noo noooo nooooooo.




Every one knows what a multitude of things--beds, sauce-pans, knives
Noooo noo noooo nooo n noooooooo no nooooo--nooo, noooo-nooo, nooooo

and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are
noo noooo, noooooo noo noooo, noooooo, noo-nooooooo, noo nooo noo, noo

indispensable to the business of housekeeping. Just so with whaling,
noooooooooooo no noo nooooooo no nooooooooooo. Nooo no nooo noooooo,

which necessitates a three-years' housekeeping upon the wide ocean,
noooo nooooooooooo n noooo-noooo' nooooooooooo nooo noo nooo noooo,

far from all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers. And
noo nooo noo noooooo, noooooooooooo, noooooo, nooooo, noo noooooo. Noo

though this also holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means
nooooo nooo nooo noooo nooo no nooooooo noooooo, noo noo no noo noooo

to the same extent as with whalemen. For besides the great length of the
no noo nooo nooooo no nooo nooooooo. Noo noooooo noo noooo nooooo no noo

whaling voyage, the numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the
noooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo nooooooo no noo noooooooooo no noo

fishery, and the impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors
noooooo, noo noo noooooooooooo no noooooooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooo

usually frequented, it must be remembered, that of all ships, whaling
noooooo nooooooooo, no nooo no nooooooooo, nooo no noo noooo, noooooo

vessels are the most exposed to accidents of all kinds, and especially
noooooo noo noo nooo noooooo no noooooooo no noo noooo, noo nooooooooo

to the destruction and loss of the very things upon which the success of
no noo noooooooooo noo nooo no noo nooo nooooo nooo noooo noo noooooo no

the voyage most depends. Hence, the spare boats, spare spars, and spare
noo nooooo nooo noooooo. Noooo, noo noooo noooo, noooo noooo, noo noooo

lines and harpoons, and spare everythings, almost, but a spare Captain
noooo noo nooooooo, noo noooo noooooooooo, nooooo, noo n noooo Noooooo

and duplicate ship.
noo noooooooo nooo.




At the period of our arrival at the Island, the heaviest storage of the
No noo nooooo no noo noooooo no noo Nooooo, noo nooooooo noooooo no noo

Pequod had been almost completed; comprising her beef, bread, water,
Nooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooooo; nooooooooo noo nooo, noooo, noooo,

fuel, and iron hoops and staves. But, as before hinted, for some time
nooo, noo nooo noooo noo nooooo. Noo, no nooooo nooooo, noo nooo nooo

there was a continual fetching and carrying on board of divers odds and
noooo noo n noooooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo no noooo no nooooo nooo noo

ends of things, both large and small.
nooo no nooooo, nooo noooo noo noooo.




Chief among those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain
Noooo noooo noooo noo noo nooo nooooooo noo nooooooo noo Noooooo

Bildad's sister, a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigable
Nooooo'n nooooo, n nooo noo nooo no n nooo nooooooooo noo noooooooooooo

spirit, but withal very kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if SHE
nooooo, noo nooooo nooo noooooooooo, noo nooooo nooooooo nooo, no NOO

could help it, nothing should be found wanting in the Pequod, after once
noooo nooo no, noooooo nooooo no noooo noooooo no noo Nooooo, noooo nooo

fairly getting to sea. At one time she would come on board with a jar
nooooo noooooo no noo. No noo nooo noo noooo nooo no noooo nooo n noo

of pickles for the steward's pantry; another time with a bunch of quills
no noooooo noo noo noooooo'n nooooo; noooooo nooo nooo n noooo no nooooo

for the chief mate's desk, where he kept his log; a third time with a
noo noo noooo nooo'n nooo, noooo no nooo noo noo; n noooo nooo nooo n

roll of flannel for the small of some one's rheumatic back. Never did
nooo no noooooo noo noo noooo no nooo noo'n noooooooo nooo. Noooo noo

any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity--Aunt Charity, as
noo noooo nooooo noooooo noo nooo, noooo noo Noooooo--Nooo Noooooo, no

everybody called her. And like a sister of charity did this charitable
noooooooo nooooo noo. Noo nooo n nooooo no noooooo noo nooo nooooooooo

Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither, ready to turn her hand
Nooo Noooooo nooooo noooo nooooo noo noooooo, noooo no nooo noo nooo

and heart to anything that promised to yield safety, comfort, and
noo noooo no nooooooo nooo nooooooo no noooo nooooo, noooooo, noo

consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brother
noooooooooo no noo no noooo n nooo no noooo noo noooooo noooooo

Bildad was concerned, and in which she herself owned a score or two of
Nooooo noo noooooooo, noo no noooo noo noooooo noooo n noooo no noo no

well-saved dollars.
nooo-noooo noooooo.




But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on
Noo no noo noooooooo no noo nooo noooooooo noooooo Noooooooo nooooo no

board, as she did the last day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and
noooo, no noo noo noo nooo noo, nooo n nooo noo-noooo no noo nooo, noo

a still longer whaling lance in the other. Nor was Bildad himself nor
n noooo nooooo noooooo noooo no noo noooo. Noo noo Nooooo noooooo noo

Captain Peleg at all backward. As for Bildad, he carried about with him
Noooooo Noooo no noo nooooooo. No noo Nooooo, no noooooo noooo nooo noo

a long list of the articles needed, and at every fresh arrival, down
n nooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo, noo no noooo noooo noooooo, nooo

went his mark opposite that article upon the paper. Every once in a
nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo. Noooo nooo no n

while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring at the men
noooo Noooo nooo nooooooo noo no noo noooooooo noo, noooooo no noo noo

down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head, and then
nooo noo noooooooo, noooooo no no noo noooooo no noo nooo-nooo, noo nooo

concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.
noooooooo no noooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo.




During these days of preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the
Nooooo noooo nooo no noooooooooo, Nooooooo noo N noooo noooooo noo

craft, and as often I asked about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and when
noooo, noo no noooo N noooo noooo Noooooo Nooo, noo noo no noo, noo nooo

he was going to come on board his ship. To these questions they would
no noo noooo no nooo no noooo noo nooo. No noooo noooooooo nooo noooo

answer, that he was getting better and better, and was expected aboard
nooooo, nooo no noo noooooo nooooo noo nooooo, noo noo nooooooo nooooo

every day; meantime, the two captains, Peleg and Bildad, could attend
noooo noo; nooooooo, noo noo nooooooo, Noooo noo Nooooo, noooo nooooo

to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage. If I had been
no nooooooooo noooooooo no noo noo nooooo noo noo nooooo. No N noo nooo

downright honest with myself, I would have seen very plainly in my heart
noooooooo nooooo nooo nooooo, N noooo nooo nooo nooo noooooo no no noooo

that I did but half fancy being committed this way to so long a voyage,
nooo N noo noo nooo noooo noooo noooooooo nooo noo no no nooo n nooooo,

without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the absolute
noooooo nooo nooooo no nooo no noo noo noo noo no no noo nooooooo

dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea.
nooooooo no no, no nooo no noo nooo nooooo noo nooo noo nooo noo.

But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
Noo nooo n noo nooooooo noo noooo, no noooooooo noooooo nooo no no no

already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his
noooooo nooooooo no noo nooooo, no nooooooooo noooooo no noooo no noo

suspicions even from himself. And much this way it was with me. I said
nooooooooo nooo nooo noooooo. Noo nooo nooo noo no noo nooo no. N nooo

nothing, and tried to think nothing.
noooooo, noo noooo no noooo noooooo.




At last it was given out that some time next day the ship would
No nooo no noo noooo noo nooo nooo nooo nooo noo noo nooo noooo

certainly sail. So next morning, Queequeg and I took a very early start.
noooooooo nooo. No nooo noooooo, Nooooooo noo N nooo n nooo noooo noooo.










CHAPTER 21. Going Aboard.
NOOOOOO no. Noooo Nooooo.







It was nearly six o'clock, but only grey imperfect misty dawn, when we
No noo nooooo noo n'noooo, noo nooo nooo noooooooo noooo nooo, nooo no

drew nigh the wharf.
nooo nooo noo noooo.




"There are some sailors running ahead there, if I see right," said I to
"Noooo noo nooo noooooo noooooo noooo noooo, no N noo noooo," nooo N no

Queequeg, "it can't be shadows; she's off by sunrise, I guess; come on!"
Nooooooo, "no noo'n no noooooo; noo'n noo no noooooo, N noooo; nooo no!"




"Avast!" cried a voice, whose owner at the same time coming close behind
"Noooo!" noooo n noooo, noooo noooo no noo nooo nooo nooooo noooo nooooo

us, laid a hand upon both our shoulders, and then insinuating himself
no, nooo n nooo nooo nooo noo noooooooo, noo nooo noooooooooo noooooo

between us, stood stooping forward a little, in the uncertain twilight,
noooooo no, noooo nooooooo noooooo n nooooo, no noo noooooooo nooooooo,

strangely peering from Queequeg to me. It was Elijah.
noooooooo noooooo nooo Nooooooo no no. No noo Nooooo.




"Going aboard?"
"Noooo nooooo?"




"Hands off, will you," said I.
"Noooo noo, nooo noo," nooo N.




"Lookee here," said Queequeg, shaking himself, "go 'way!"
"Nooooo nooo," nooo Nooooooo, noooooo noooooo, "no 'noo!"




"Ain't going aboard, then?"
"Noo'n noooo nooooo, nooo?"




"Yes, we are," said I, "but what business is that of yours? Do you know,
"Noo, no noo," nooo N, "noo nooo nooooooo no nooo no noooo? No noo nooo,

Mr. Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?"
No. Nooooo, nooo N nooooooo noo n nooooo noooooooooo?"




"No, no, no; I wasn't aware of that," said Elijah, slowly and
"No, no, no; N nooo'n noooo no nooo," nooo Nooooo, nooooo noo

wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg, with the most unaccountable
noooooooooo noooooo nooo no no Nooooooo, nooo noo nooo noooooooooooo

glances.
noooooo.




"Elijah," said I, "you will oblige my friend and me by withdrawing. We
"Nooooo," nooo N, "noo nooo nooooo no nooooo noo no no noooooooooo. No

are going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be
noo noooo no noo Nooooo noo Noooooo Nooooo, noo noooo nooooo noo no no

detained."
nooooooo."




"Ye be, be ye? Coming back afore breakfast?"
"No no, no no? Nooooo nooo noooo noooooooo?"




"He's cracked, Queequeg," said I, "come on."
"No'n noooooo, Nooooooo," nooo N, "nooo no."




"Holloa!" cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few
"Nooooo!" noooo nooooooooo Nooooo, noooooo no nooo no noo noooooo n noo

paces.
noooo.




"Never mind him," said I, "Queequeg, come on."
"Noooo nooo noo," nooo N, "Nooooooo, nooo no."




But he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on my
Noo no noooo no no no noooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooo no no

shoulder, said--"Did ye see anything looking like men going towards that
nooooooo, nooo--"Noo no noo nooooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo noooooo nooo

ship a while ago?"
nooo n noooo noo?"




Struck by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying, "Yes,
Nooooo no nooo noooo nooooo-no-nooo nooooooo, N nooooooo, nooooo, "Noo,

I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure."
N noooooo N noo noo nooo no nooo noo; noo no noo noo noo no no nooo."




"Very dim, very dim," said Elijah. "Morning to ye."
"Nooo noo, nooo noo," nooo Nooooo. "Noooooo no no."




Once more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; and
Nooo nooo no noooooo noo; noo nooo nooo no nooo nooooo noooo no; noo

touching my shoulder again, said, "See if you can find 'em now, will ye?
nooooooo no nooooooo noooo, nooo, "Noo no noo noo nooo 'no noo, nooo no?




"Find who?"
"Nooo noo?"




"Morning to ye! morning to ye!" he rejoined, again moving off. "Oh! I
"Noooooo no no! noooooo no no!" no nooooooo, noooo nooooo noo. "No! N

was going to warn ye against--but never mind, never mind--it's all one,
noo noooo no nooo no noooooo--noo noooo nooo, noooo nooo--no'n noo noo,

all in the family too;--sharp frost this morning, ain't it? Good-bye to
noo no noo nooooo noo;--noooo noooo nooo noooooo, noo'n no? Nooo-noo no

ye. Shan't see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand
no. Nooo'n noo no noooo nooo nooo, N noooo; nooooo no'n nooooo noo Noooo

Jury." And with these cracked words he finally departed, leaving me, for
Nooo." Noo nooo noooo noooooo noooo no noooooo nooooooo, noooooo no, noo

the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence.
noo nooooo, no no noooo nooooooooo no noo noooooo noooooooo.




At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profound
No nooo, nooooooo no noooo noo Nooooo, no noooo nooooooooo no nooooooo

quiet, not a soul moving. The cabin entrance was locked within; the
noooo, noo n nooo nooooo. Noo noooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooooo; noo

hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging. Going forward
noooooo nooo noo no, noo nooooooo nooo noooo no noooooo. Noooo noooooo

to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open. Seeing a
no noo nooooooooo, no noooo noo noooo no noo noooooo nooo. Nooooo n

light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a
noooo, no nooo nooo, noo noooo nooo no noo nooooo noooo, noooooo no n

tattered pea-jacket. He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his
nooooooo noo-nooooo. No noo nooooo no noooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo, noo

face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms. The profoundest slumber
nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooo nooo. Noo noooooooooo noooooo

slept upon him.
noooo nooo noo.




"Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?" said I,
"Noooo noooooo no noo, Nooooooo, noooo noo nooo nooo nooo no?" nooo N,

looking dubiously at the sleeper. But it seemed that, when on the wharf,
noooooo noooooooo no noo noooooo. Noo no nooooo nooo, nooo no noo noooo,

Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I would
Nooooooo noo noo no noo noooooo nooo N noo noooooo no; noooo N noooo

have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter,
nooo noooooo nooooo no nooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooooo,

were it not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question. But I beat the
nooo no noo noo Nooooo'n noooooooo nooooooooooo nooooooo. Noo N nooo noo

thing down; and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg
noooo nooo; noo noooo noooooo noo noooooo, noooooooo nooooo no Nooooooo

that perhaps we had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish
nooo noooooo no noo nooo noo no nooo noo nooo; noooooo noo no noooooooo

himself accordingly. He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though
noooooo noooooooooo. No noo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo'n nooo, no nooooo

feeling if it was soft enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly
noooooo no no noo nooo nooooo; noo nooo, noooooo nooo noo, noo noooooo

down there.
nooo noooo.




"Gracious! Queequeg, don't sit there," said I.
"Nooooooo! Nooooooo, noo'n noo noooo," nooo N.




"Oh! perry dood seat," said Queequeg, "my country way; won't hurt him
"No! noooo nooo nooo," nooo Nooooooo, "no noooooo noo; noo'n nooo noo

face."
nooo."




"Face!" said I, "call that his face? very benevolent countenance then;
"Nooo!" nooo N, "nooo nooo noo nooo? nooo nooooooooo noooooooooo nooo;

but how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get off, Queequeg, you
noo noo nooo no nooooooo, no'n noooooo noooooo; noo noo, Nooooooo, noo

are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor. Get off, Queequeg! Look,
noo noooo, no'n nooooooo noo nooo no noo nooo. Noo noo, Nooooooo! Nooo,

he'll twitch you off soon. I wonder he don't wake."
no'no nooooo noo noo nooo. N nooooo no noo'n nooo."




Queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and
Nooooooo noooooo noooooo no nooo nooooo noo nooo no noo noooooo, noo

lighted his tomahawk pipe. I sat at the feet. We kept the pipe passing
noooooo noo nooooooo nooo. N noo no noo nooo. No nooo noo nooo noooooo

over the sleeper, from one to the other. Meanwhile, upon questioning him
nooo noo noooooo, nooo noo no noo noooo. Noooooooo, nooo noooooooooo noo

in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave me to understand that, in his
no noo nooooo noooooo, Nooooooo nooo no no nooooooooo nooo, no noo

land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas of all sorts, the king,
nooo, noooo no noo noooooo no noooooo noo noooo no noo noooo, noo nooo,

chiefs, and great people generally, were in the custom of fattening some
nooooo, noo noooo nooooo noooooooo, nooo no noo nooooo no noooooooo nooo

of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a house comfortably in
no noo noooo nooooo noo nooooooo; noo no noooooo n noooo noooooooooo no

that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy fellows, and lay
nooo noooooo, noo noo nooo no noo no noooo no noo nooo noooooo, noo noo

them round in the piers and alcoves. Besides, it was very convenient on
nooo noooo no noo noooo noo noooooo. Noooooo, no noo nooo nooooooooo no

an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are convertible
no noooooooo; nooo nooooo nooo noooo nooooo-nooooo noooo noo noooooooooo

into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant, and
nooo noooooo-nooooo; nooo nooooooo, n noooo noooooo noo noooooooo, noo

desiring him to make a settee of himself under a spreading tree, perhaps
nooooooo noo no nooo n nooooo no noooooo noooo n noooooooo nooo, noooooo

in some damp marshy place.
no nooo nooo nooooo noooo.




While narrating these things, every time Queequeg received the tomahawk
Noooo noooooooo noooo nooooo, noooo nooo Nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo

from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the sleeper's head.
nooo no, no nooooooooo noo noooooo-nooo no no nooo noo noooooo'n nooo.




"What's that for, Queequeg?"
"Nooo'n nooo noo, Nooooooo?"




"Perry easy, kill-e; oh! perry easy!"
"Noooo nooo, nooo-n; no! noooo nooo!"




He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,
No noo noooo no nooo nooo nooo noooooooooooo noooo noo nooooooo-nooo,

which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed
noooo, no nooooo, noo no noo noo nooo nooo noooooo noo nooo noo noooooo

his soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger. The
noo nooo, nooo no nooo nooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo. Noo

strong vapour now completely filling the contracted hole, it began
nooooo nooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooooo nooo, no noooo

to tell upon him. He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed
no nooo nooo noo. No nooooooo nooo n nooo no noooooooooo; nooo nooooo

troubled in the nose; then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and
nooooooo no noo nooo; nooo nooooooo nooo nooo no noooo; nooo noo no noo

rubbed his eyes.
nooooo noo nooo.




"Holloa!" he breathed at last, "who be ye smokers?"
"Nooooo!" no nooooooo no nooo, "noo no no noooooo?"




"Shipped men," answered I, "when does she sail?"
"Noooooo noo," nooooooo N, "nooo nooo noo nooo?"




"Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye? She sails to-day. The Captain
"Noo, noo, no noo noooo no noo, no no? Noo noooo no-noo. Noo Noooooo

came aboard last night."
nooo nooooo nooo noooo."




"What Captain?--Ahab?"
"Nooo Noooooo?--Nooo?"




"Who but him indeed?"
"Noo noo noo nooooo?"




I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we
N noo noooo no noo noo nooo noooooo noooooooo nooooooooo Nooo, nooo no

heard a noise on deck.
noooo n noooo no nooo.




"Holloa! Starbuck's astir," said the rigger. "He's a lively chief mate,
"Nooooo! Nooooooo'n noooo," nooo noo nooooo. "No'n n nooooo noooo nooo,

that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to." And so
nooo; nooo noo, noo n noooo; noo noo noooo noo, N nooo nooo no." Noo no

saying he went on deck, and we followed.
nooooo no nooo no nooo, noo no nooooooo.




It was now clear sunrise. Soon the crew came on board in twos and
No noo noo noooo noooooo. Nooo noo nooo nooo no noooo no nooo noo

threes; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were actively
nooooo; noo noooooo noooooooo nooooooooo; noo noooo nooo nooooooo

engaged; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various
noooooo; noo noooooo no noo noooo nooooo nooo nooo no nooooooo noooooo

last things on board. Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly
nooo nooooo no noooo. Noooooooo Noooooo Nooo nooooooo noooooooo

enshrined within his cabin.
noooooooo nooooo noo noooo.










CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.
NOOOOOO no. Noooo Noooooooo.







At length, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship's riggers,
No nooooo, noooooo nooo, nooo noo noooo noooooooo no noo nooo'n noooooo,

and after the Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf, and after the
noo noooo noo Nooooo noo nooo nooooo noo nooo noo noooo, noo noooo noo

ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a whale-boat, with her last
nooo-nooooooooo Noooooo noo nooo noo no n noooo-nooo, nooo noo nooo

gift--a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her brother-in-law, and a
nooo--n noooo-noo noo Noooo, noo nooooo nooo, noo noooooo-no-noo, noo n

spare Bible for the steward--after all this, the two Captains, Peleg
noooo Noooo noo noo noooooo--noooo noo nooo, noo noo Nooooooo, Noooo

and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief mate, Peleg
noo Nooooo, nooooo nooo noo noooo, noo noooooo no noo noooo nooo, Noooo

said:
nooo:




"Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right? Captain Ahab is
"Noo, No. Nooooooo, noo noo nooo nooooooooo no noooo? Noooooo Nooo no

all ready--just spoke to him--nothing more to be got from shore, eh?
noo noooo--nooo noooo no noo--noooooo nooo no no noo nooo noooo, no?

Well, call all hands, then. Muster 'em aft here--blast 'em!"
Nooo, nooo noo noooo, nooo. Nooooo 'no noo nooo--noooo 'no!"




"No need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg," said Bildad,
"No nooo no noooooo noooo, noooooo noooo noo noooo, Noooo," nooo Nooooo,

"but away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding."
"noo nooo nooo nooo, nooooo Nooooooo, noo no noo noooooo."




How now! Here upon the very point of starting for the voyage, Captain
Noo noo! Nooo nooo noo nooo noooo no nooooooo noo noo nooooo, Noooooo

Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on the
Noooo noo Noooooo Nooooo nooo noooo no nooo n nooo nooo no noo

quarter-deck, just as if they were to be joint-commanders at sea, as
noooooo-nooo, nooo no no nooo nooo no no noooo-nooooooooo no noo, no

well as to all appearances in port. And, as for Captain Ahab, no sign of
nooo no no noo noooooooooo no nooo. Noo, no noo Noooooo Nooo, no nooo no

him was yet to be seen; only, they said he was in the cabin. But then,
noo noo noo no no nooo; nooo, nooo nooo no noo no noo noooo. Noo nooo,

the idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the
noo nooo noo, nooo noo nooooooo noo no no noooo noooooooo no noooooo noo

ship under weigh, and steering her well out to sea. Indeed, as that was
nooo noooo noooo, noo nooooooo noo nooo noo no noo. Nooooo, no nooo noo

not at all his proper business, but the pilot's; and as he was not
noo no noo noo nooooo nooooooo, noo noo noooo'n; noo no no noo noo

yet completely recovered--so they said--therefore, Captain Ahab stayed
noo nooooooooo noooooooo--no nooo nooo--noooooooo, Noooooo Nooo nooooo

below. And all this seemed natural enough; especially as in the merchant
noooo. Noo noo nooo nooooo noooooo nooooo; nooooooooo no no noo nooooooo

service many captains never show themselves on deck for a considerable
noooooo nooo nooooooo noooo nooo nooooooooo no nooo noo n nooooooooooo

time after heaving up the anchor, but remain over the cabin table,
nooo noooo noooooo no noo nooooo, noo nooooo nooo noo noooo noooo,

having a farewell merry-making with their shore friends, before they
nooooo n nooooooo noooo-nooooo nooo noooo noooo noooooo, nooooo nooo

quit the ship for good with the pilot.
nooo noo nooo noo nooo nooo noo noooo.




But there was not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain
Noo noooo noo noo nooo nooooo no noooo nooo noo nooooo, noo Noooooo

Peleg was now all alive. He seemed to do most of the talking and
Noooo noo noo noo noooo. No nooooo no no nooo no noo noooooo noo

commanding, and not Bildad.
nooooooooo, noo noo Nooooo.




"Aft here, ye sons of bachelors," he cried, as the sailors lingered at
"Noo nooo, no nooo no noooooooo," no noooo, no noo noooooo nooooooo no

the main-mast. "Mr. Starbuck, drive'em aft."
noo nooo-nooo. "No. Nooooooo, noooo'no noo."




"Strike the tent there!"--was the next order. As I hinted before, this
"Nooooo noo nooo noooo!"--noo noo nooo noooo. No N nooooo nooooo, nooo

whalebone marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board the
noooooooo noooooo noo noooo noooooo nooooo no nooo; noo no noooo noo

Pequod, for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well known to
Nooooo, noo nooooo noooo, noo noooo no nooooo noo nooo noo nooo noooo no

be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.
no noo nooo noooo no noooooo no noo nooooo.




"Man the capstan! Blood and thunder!--jump!"--was the next command, and
"Noo noo noooooo! Noooo noo noooooo!--nooo!"--noo noo nooo noooooo, noo

the crew sprang for the handspikes.
noo nooo nooooo noo noo nooooooooo.




Now in getting under weigh, the station generally occupied by the pilot
Noo no noooooo noooo noooo, noo noooooo noooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo

is the forward part of the ship. And here Bildad, who, with Peleg, be it
no noo noooooo nooo no noo nooo. Noo nooo Nooooo, noo, nooo Noooo, no no

known, in addition to his other officers, was one of the licensed pilots
noooo, no nooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo, noo noo no noo nooooooo nooooo

of the port--he being suspected to have got himself made a pilot in
no noo nooo--no noooo noooooooo no nooo noo noooooo nooo n noooo no

order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was concerned
noooo no nooo noo Noooooooo noooo-noo no noo noo noooo no noo noooooooo

in, for he never piloted any other craft--Bildad, I say, might now
no, noo no noooo noooooo noo noooo noooo--Nooooo, N noo, noooo noo

be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching
no nooo nooooooo noooooo no noooooo nooo noo nooo noo noo noooooooooo

anchor, and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody,
nooooo, noo no noooooooo noooooo nooo nooooo n nooooo noooo no nooooooo,

to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of
no noooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo, noo nooooo noooo nooo nooo no

a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley, with hearty good will.
n nooooo noooo noo noooo no Nooooo Noooo, nooo nooooo nooo nooo.

Nevertheless, not three days previous, Bildad had told them that no
Nooooooooooo, noo noooo nooo nooooooo, Nooooo noo nooo nooo nooo no

profane songs would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in
noooooo noooo noooo no noooooo no noooo noo Nooooo, nooooooooooo no

getting under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed a small choice
noooooo noooo noooo; noo Noooooo, noo nooooo, noo nooooo n noooo nooooo

copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.
nooo no Noooo no nooo nooooo'n noooo.




Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg ripped
Nooooooo, nooooooooo noo noooo nooo no noo nooo, Noooooo Noooo nooooo

and swore astern in the most frightful manner. I almost thought he would
noo noooo nooooo no noo nooo noooooooo nooooo. N nooooo noooooo no noooo

sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused
nooo noo nooo nooooo noo nooooo noooo no noo no; noooooooooooo N nooooo

on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the
no no noooooooo, noo nooo Nooooooo no no noo nooo, nooooooo no noo

perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a
nooooo no nooo noo, no nooooooo no noo nooooo nooo nooo n noooo noo n

pilot. I was comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious
noooo. N noo nooooooooo nooooo, noooooo, nooo noo noooooo nooo no noooo

Bildad might be found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and
Nooooo noooo no noooo nooo noooooooo, noooo no noo noooo noooooo noo

seventy-seventh lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and
noooooo-noooooo noo; nooo N nooo n nooooo noooo nooo no no nooo, noo

turning round, was horrified at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the
noooooo noooo, noo noooooooo no noo nooooooooo no Noooooo Noooo no noo

act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity. That was my first
noo no noooooooooo noo noo nooo no noooooooo nooooooo. Nooo noo no noooo

kick.
nooo.




"Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?" he roared.
"No nooo noo noo nooo noooo no noo nooooooo noooooo?" no nooooo.

"Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone! Why don't ye
"Nooooo, nooo noooo-nooo; nooooo, noo noooo noo nooooooo! Noo noo'n no

spring, I say, all of ye--spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap with the red
nooooo, N noo, noo no no--nooooo! Nooooo! nooooo, nooo nooo nooo noo noo

whiskers; spring there, Scotch-cap; spring, thou green pants. Spring, I
nooooooo; nooooo noooo, Nooooo-noo; nooooo, nooo noooo noooo. Nooooo, N

say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!" And so saying, he moved
noo, noo no no, noo nooooo nooo nooo noo!" Noo no nooooo, no noooo

along the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, while
noooo noo nooooooo, nooo noo noooo noooo noo noo nooo nooooo, noooo

imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody. Thinks I,
noooooooooooo Nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooo noo nooooooo. Nooooo N,

Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.
Noooooo Noooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo no-noo.




At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided. It
No nooo noo nooooo noo no, noo noooo nooo noo, noo noo no nooooo. No

was a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into
noo n noooo, nooo Noooooooo; noo no noo noooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo

night, we found ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose
noooo, no noooo noooooooo nooooo noooo nooo noo nooooo noooo, noooo

freezing spray cased us in ice, as in polished armor. The long rows of
nooooooo noooo noooo no no noo, no no nooooooo noooo. Noo nooo nooo no

teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight; and like the white
noooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo no noo noooooooo; noo nooo noo noooo

ivory tusks of some huge elephant, vast curving icicles depended from
noooo noooo no nooo nooo nooooooo, nooo noooooo noooooo nooooooo nooo

the bows.
noo nooo.




Lank Bildad, as pilot, headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the
Nooo Nooooo, no noooo, nooooo noo noooo noooo, noo nooo noo nooo, no noo

old craft deep dived into the green seas, and sent the shivering frost
noo noooo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooo, noo nooo noo noooooooo noooo

all over her, and the winds howled, and the cordage rang, his steady
noo nooo noo, noo noo noooo nooooo, noo noo noooooo nooo, noo nooooo

notes were heard,--
noooo nooo noooo,--




"Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green.
"Noooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo, Noooo noooooo no nooooo noooo.

So to the Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between."
No no noo Nooo noo Nooooo noooo, Noooo Nooooo nooooo noooooo."







Never did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me than then. They
Noooo noo noooo noooo noooo noooo nooo noooooo no no nooo nooo. Nooo

were full of hope and fruition. Spite of this frigid winter night in the
nooo nooo no nooo noo nooooooo. Noooo no nooo nooooo nooooo noooo no noo

boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket, there was
nooooooooo Nooooooo, noooo no no noo nooo noo nooooo nooooo, noooo noo

yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store; and meads
noo, no nooo nooooo no no, nooo n nooooooo noooo no noooo; noo noooo

and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by the spring,
noo nooooo no noooooooo nooooo, nooo noo noooo nooo no no noo nooooo,

untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.
noooooooo, nooooooo, noooooo no noooooooo.




At last we gained such an offing, that the two pilots were needed
No nooo no nooooo nooo no nooooo, nooo noo noo nooooo nooo nooooo

no longer. The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began ranging
no nooooo. Noo noooo nooo-nooo nooo noo noooooooooo no noooo noooooo

alongside.
noooooooo.




It was curious and not unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at
No noo noooooo noo noo nooooooooo, noo Noooo noo Nooooo nooo nooooooo no

this juncture, especially Captain Bildad. For loath to depart, yet;
nooo nooooooo, nooooooooo Noooooo Nooooo. Noo noooo no nooooo, noo;

very loath to leave, for good, a ship bound on so long and perilous a
nooo noooo no noooo, noo nooo, n nooo noooo no no nooo noo nooooooo n

voyage--beyond both stormy Capes; a ship in which some thousands of
nooooo--nooooo nooo nooooo Noooo; n nooo no noooo nooo noooooooo no

his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in which an old shipmate
noo nooo nooooo noooooo nooo nooooooo; n nooo, no noooo no noo nooooooo

sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once more starting to
nooooo no noooooo; n noo nooooo no noo no no, nooo nooo nooooooo no

encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say good-bye to
noooooooo noo noo noooooo no noo nooooooo noo; noooo no noo nooo-noo no

a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him,--poor old Bildad
n noooo no noooo noo noooooo no noooo nooooooo no noo,--nooo noo Nooooo

lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides; ran down into the
nooooooo nooo; noooo noo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo; noo nooo nooo noo

cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and
noooo no noooo noooooo nooooooo nooo noooo; noooo nooo no nooo, noo

looked to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only
nooooo no nooooooo; nooooo noooooo noo nooo noo noooooo nooooo, nooo

bounded by the far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards
noooooo no noo noo-noo nooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo; nooooo noooooo

the land; looked aloft; looked right and left; looked everywhere
noo nooo; nooooo noooo; nooooo noooo noo nooo; nooooo nooooooooo

and nowhere; and at last, mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin,
noo noooooo; noo no nooo, nooooooooooo noooooo n nooo nooo noo noo,

convulsively grasped stout Peleg by the hand, and holding up a lantern,
nooooooooooo noooooo noooo Noooo no noo nooo, noo noooooo no n noooooo,

for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say,
noo n nooooo noooo nooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo, no nooo no no noo,

"Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it; yes, I can."
"Nooooooooooo, nooooo Noooo, N noo noooo no; noo, N noo."




As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for all
No noo Noooo noooooo, no nooo no nooo nooo n noooooooooo; noo noo noo

his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the lantern
noo nooooooooo, noooo noo n nooo noooooooo no noo noo, nooo noo noooooo

came too near. And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck--now
nooo noo nooo. Noo no, noo, noo noo n nooooo noo nooo noooo no nooo--noo

a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.
n nooo noooo, noo noo n nooo nooo Nooooooo, noo noooo nooo.




But, at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look
Noo, no nooo, no nooooo no noo noooooo, nooo n noooo nooo no nooo

about him,--"Captain Bildad--come, old shipmate, we must go. Back the
noooo noo,--"Noooooo Nooooo--nooo, noo nooooooo, no nooo no. Nooo noo

main-yard there! Boat ahoy! Stand by to come close alongside, now!
nooo-nooo noooo! Nooo nooo! Noooo no no nooo noooo noooooooo, noo!

Careful, careful!--come, Bildad, boy--say your last. Luck to ye,
Noooooo, noooooo!--nooo, Nooooo, noo--noo nooo nooo. Nooo no no,

Starbuck--luck to ye, Mr. Stubb--luck to ye, Mr. Flask--good-bye and
Nooooooo--nooo no no, No. Noooo--nooo no no, No. Noooo--nooo-noo noo

good luck to ye all--and this day three years I'll have a hot supper
nooo nooo no no noo--noo nooo noo noooo noooo N'no nooo n noo nooooo

smoking for ye in old Nantucket. Hurrah and away!"
noooooo noo no no noo Noooooooo. Nooooo noo nooo!"




"God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men," murmured old
"Noo noooo no, noo nooo no no Noo nooo noooooo, noo," nooooooo noo

Bildad, almost incoherently. "I hope ye'll have fine weather now, so
Nooooo, nooooo nooooooooooo. "N nooo no'no nooo nooo noooooo noo, no

that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye--a pleasant sun is all
nooo Noooooo Nooo noo nooo no nooooo noooo no--n nooooooo noo no noo

he needs, and ye'll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go.
no noooo, noo no'no nooo nooooo no nooo no noo nooooo nooooo no no.

Be careful in the hunt, ye mates. Don't stave the boats needlessly,
No noooooo no noo nooo, no noooo. Noo'n noooo noo noooo nooooooooo,

ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent.
no noooooooooo; nooo noooo noooo noooo no nooooo nooo noooo noo nooo.

within the year. Don't forget your prayers, either. Mr. Starbuck, mind
nooooo noo nooo. Noo'n nooooo nooo noooooo, nooooo. No. Nooooooo, nooo

that cooper don't waste the spare staves. Oh! the sail-needles are in
nooo nooooo noo'n noooo noo noooo nooooo. No! noo nooo-noooooo noo no

the green locker! Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days, men; but don't
noo noooo nooooo! Noo'n noooo no noo nooo n' Nooo'n nooo, noo; noo noo'n

miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good gifts. Have an
nooo n nooo nooooo nooooo, nooo'n noooooooo Nooooo'n nooo noooo. Nooo no

eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky, I thought.
noo no noo nooooooo nooooo, No. Noooo; no noo n nooooo noooo, N noooooo.

If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication. Good-bye,
No no noooo no noo noooooo, No. Noooo, nooooo no noooooooooo. Nooo-noo,

good-bye! Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.
nooo-noo! Noo'n nooo nooo nooooo noo nooo nooo no noo nooo, No.

Starbuck; it'll spoil. Be careful with the butter--twenty cents the
Nooooooo; no'no noooo. No noooooo nooo noo nooooo--nooooo noooo noo

pound it was, and mind ye, if--"
noooo no noo, noo nooo no, no--"




"Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering,--away!" and with that,
"Nooo, nooo, Noooooo Nooooo; nooo nooooooooo,--nooo!" noo nooo nooo,

Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the boat.
Noooo noooooo noo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo noooo nooo noo nooo.




Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
Nooo noo nooo nooooooo; noo nooo, nooo noooo nooooo nooo noooooo; n

screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave
noooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo; noo noo noooo nooooo nooooo; no nooo

three heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone
noooo noooo-noooooo nooooo, noo noooooo noooooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo

Atlantic.
Nooooooo.










CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noo Noooo.







Some chapters back, one Bulkington was spoken of, a tall, newlanded
Nooo nooooooo nooo, noo Nooooooooo noo nooooo no, n nooo, noooooooo

mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.
noooooo, noooooooooo no Noo Noooooo no noo noo.




When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive
Nooo no nooo noooooooo nooooo'n noooo, noo Nooooo nooooo noo nooooooooo

bows into the cold malicious waves, who should I see standing at her
nooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo noooo, noo nooooo N noo nooooooo no noo

helm but Bulkington! I looked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon
nooo noo Nooooooooo! N nooooo nooo noooooooooo noo noo noooooooooo nooo

the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years' dangerous
noo noo, noo no noo-nooooo nooo nooooo nooo n nooo noooo' noooooooo

voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another
nooooo, noooo no noooooooooo nooo noo noooo noo noooo noooooo

tempestuous term. The land seemed scorching to his feet. Wonderfullest
noooooooooo nooo. Noo nooo nooooo noooooooo no noo nooo. Noooooooooooo

things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this
nooooo noo nooo noo noooooooooooo; nooo nooooooo noooo no nooooooo; nooo

six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington. Let me only say
noo-nooo noooooo no noo noooooooo noooo no Nooooooooo. Noo no nooo noo

that it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably
nooo no noooo nooo noo no nooo noo noooo-nooooo nooo, nooo noooooooo

drives along the leeward land. The port would fain give succor; the port
nooooo noooo noo noooooo nooo. Noo nooo noooo nooo nooo nooooo; noo nooo

is pitiful; in the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm
no noooooo; no noo nooo no nooooo, noooooo, noooooooooo, nooooo, nooo

blankets, friends, all that's kind to our mortalities. But in that gale,
nooooooo, noooooo, noo nooo'n nooo no noo noooooooooo. Noo no nooo nooo,

the port, the land, is that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all
noo nooo, noo nooo, no nooo nooo'n nooooo nooooooo; noo nooo noo noo

hospitality; one touch of land, though it but graze the keel, would make
noooooooooo; noo noooo no nooo, nooooo no noo noooo noo nooo, noooo nooo

her shudder through and through. With all her might she crowds all sail
noo noooooo noooooo noo noooooo. Nooo noo noo noooo noo nooooo noo nooo

off shore; in so doing, fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would
noo noooo; no no noooo, nooooo 'nooooo noo nooo noooo nooo nooo noooo

blow her homeward; seeks all the lashed sea's landlessness again;
nooo noo nooooooo; noooo noo noo nooooo noo'n nooooooooooo noooo;

for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into peril; her only friend her
noo nooooo'n nooo noooooooo noooooo nooo noooo; noo nooo nooooo noo

bitterest foe!
noooooooo noo!




Know ye now, Bulkington? Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally
Nooo no noo, Nooooooooo? Nooooooo no no nooo no noo no nooo nooooooo

intolerable truth; that all deep, earnest thinking is but the intrepid
noooooooooo noooo; nooo noo nooo, noooooo nooooooo no noo noo nooooooo

effort of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea; while
nooooo no noo nooo no nooo noo nooo nooooooooooo no noo noo; noooo

the wildest winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on the
noo noooooo noooo no nooooo noo noooo nooooooo no nooo noo no noo

treacherous, slavish shore?
noooooooooo, noooooo noooo?




But as in landlessness alone resides highest truth, shoreless,
Noo no no nooooooooooo noooo noooooo noooooo noooo, noooooooo,

indefinite as God--so, better is it to perish in that howling infinite,
nooooooooo no Noo--no, nooooo no no no nooooo no nooo noooooo nooooooo,

than be ingloriously dashed upon the lee, even if that were safety!
nooo no nooooooooooo nooooo nooo noo noo, nooo no nooo nooo nooooo!

For worm-like, then, oh! who would craven crawl to land! Terrors of
Noo nooo-nooo, nooo, no! noo noooo nooooo noooo no nooo! Noooooo no

the terrible! is all this agony so vain? Take heart, take heart,
noo nooooooo! no noo nooo noooo no nooo? Nooo noooo, nooo noooo,

O Bulkington! Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thy
N Nooooooooo! Nooo nooo nooooo, noooooo! No nooo noo noooo no noo

ocean-perishing--straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!
noooo-noooooooo--nooooooo no, noooo noo nooooooooo!










CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooooo.







As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked in this business of whaling;
No Nooooooo noo N noo noo nooooo nooooooo no nooo nooooooo no noooooo;

and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among
noo no nooo nooooooo no noooooo noo noooooo nooo no no nooooooo noooo

landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; therefore, I
nooooooo no n nooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooooooo noooooo; noooooooo, N

am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the injustice hereby done
no noo noooooo no nooooooo no, no nooooooo, no noo noooooooo nooooo nooo

to us hunters of whales.
no no noooooo no nooooo.




In the first place, it may be deemed almost superfluous to establish
No noo noooo noooo, no noo no nooooo nooooo noooooooooo no noooooooo

the fact, that among people at large, the business of whaling is not
noo nooo, nooo noooo nooooo no noooo, noo nooooooo no noooooo no noo

accounted on a level with what are called the liberal professions. If a
noooooooo no n noooo nooo nooo noo nooooo noo noooooo noooooooooo. No n

stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society,
nooooooo nooo nooooooooo nooo noo noooooooooooo nooooooooooo noooooo,

it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits, were
no noooo noo nooooooo noooooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo nooooo, nooo

he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulation
no noooooooo no noo noooooo no n nooooooooo, noo; noo no no noooooooo

of the naval officers he should append the initials S.W.F. (Sperm
no noo noooo nooooooo no nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo N.N.N. (Noooo

Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
Noooo Noooooo) no noo nooooooo nooo, nooo n noooooooo noooo no nooooo

pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.
noo-noooooooo noooooooo noo nooooooooo.




Doubtless one leading reason why the world declines honouring us
Noooooooo noo noooooo nooooo noo noo noooo nooooooo noooooooo no

whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our vocation amounts to a
nooooooo, no nooo: nooo noooo nooo, no nooo, noo nooooooo noooooo no n

butchering sort of business; and that when actively engaged therein, we
nooooooooo nooo no nooooooo; noo nooo nooo nooooooo noooooo noooooo, no

are surrounded by all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that is
noo nooooooooo no noo nooooo no noooooooooo. Nooooooo no noo, nooo no

true. But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge have been
nooo. Noo nooooooo, nooo, noo nooooooo no noo noooooooo noooo nooo nooo

all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honour. And
noo Noooooo Nooooooooo nooo noo noooo nooooooooo nooooooo no nooooo. Noo

as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
no noo noo nooooo no noo noooooo noooooooooooo no noo nooooooo, no noooo

soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown,
nooo no noooooooo nooo noooooo noooo nooooooo nooooo noooooooo noooooo,

and which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship
noo noooo, nooo noo noooo, nooo nooooooooooo noooo noo noooo noooo-nooo

at least among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth. But even
no noooo noooo noo nooooooooo nooooo no nooo nooo noooo. Noo nooo

granting the charge in question to be true; what disordered slippery
nooooooo noo nooooo no nooooooo no no nooo; nooo nooooooooo nooooooo

decks of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those
noooo no n noooo-nooo noo nooooooooo no noo noooooooooo noooooo no noooo

battle-fields from which so many soldiers return to drink in all ladies'
nooooo-nooooo nooo noooo no nooo nooooooo nooooo no noooo no noo nooooo'

plaudits? And if the idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit
nooooooo? Noo no noo nooo no noooo no nooo nooooooo noo noooooo noooooo

of the soldier's profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran
no noo noooooo'n nooooooooo; noo no nooooo no nooo nooo n noooooo

who has freely marched up to a battery, would quickly recoil at the
noo noo nooooo noooooo no no n noooooo, noooo noooooo nooooo no noo

apparition of the sperm whale's vast tail, fanning into eddies the air
nooooooooo no noo noooo noooo'n nooo nooo, noooooo nooo nooooo noo noo

over his head. For what are the comprehensible terrors of man compared
nooo noo nooo. Noo nooo noo noo nooooooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo

with the interlinked terrors and wonders of God!
nooo noo noooooooooo noooooo noo noooooo no Noo!




But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
Noo, nooooo noo noooo nooooo no no noooo noooooo, noo nooo no

unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding
noooooooooo noo no noo noooooooooo nooooo; noo, no noo-noooooooo

adoration! for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round
noooooooo! noo nooooo noo noo nooooo, noooo, noo noooooo nooo nooo noooo

the globe, burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!
noo noooo, nooo, no nooooo no nooo noooooo, no noo noooo!




But look at this matter in other lights; weigh it in all sorts of
Noo nooo no nooo nooooo no noooo nooooo; noooo no no noo noooo no

scales; see what we whalemen are, and have been.
nooooo; noo nooo no nooooooo noo, noo nooo nooo.




Why did the Dutch in De Witt's time have admirals of their whaling
Noo noo noo Noooo no No Nooo'n nooo nooo nooooooo no noooo noooooo

fleets? Why did Louis XVI. of France, at his own personal expense, fit
nooooo? Noo noo Noooo NOO. no Nooooo, no noo noo nooooooo noooooo, noo

out whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some
noo noooooo noooo nooo Noooooo, noo nooooooo nooooo no nooo nooo nooo

score or two of families from our own island of Nantucket? Why did
noooo no noo no nooooooo nooo noo noo nooooo no Noooooooo? Noo noo

Britain between the years 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounties
Noooooo noooooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo noo no noo nooooooo no nooooooo

upwards of L1,000,000? And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of
noooooo no NO,noo,noo? Noo nooooo, noo noooo no nooo no nooooooo no

America now outnumber all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world;
Noooooo noo noooooooo noo noo nooo no noo nooooo nooooooo no noo noooo;

sail a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen
nooo n nooo no noooooo no noooo noooooo noooooo; nooooo no nooooooo

thousand men; yearly consuming 4,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth,
nooooooo noo; nooooo noooooooo n,noo,noo no noooooo; noo noooo noooo,

at the time of sailing, $20,000,000! and every year importing into our
no noo nooo no noooooo, $no,noo,noo! noo noooo nooo noooooooo nooo noo

harbors a well reaped harvest of $7,000,000. How comes all this, if
noooooo n nooo nooooo noooooo no $n,noo,noo. Noo noooo noo nooo, no

there be not something puissant in whaling?
noooo no noo noooooooo nooooooo no noooooo?




But this is not the half; look again.
Noo nooo no noo noo nooo; nooo noooo.




I freely assert, that the cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life,
N nooooo nooooo, nooo noo noooooooooo noooooooooo nooooo, noo noo nooo,

point out one single peaceful influence, which within the last sixty
noooo noo noo nooooo nooooooo noooooooo, noooo nooooo noo nooo noooo

years has operated more potentially upon the whole broad world, taken in
noooo noo nooooooo nooo noooooooooo nooo noo noooo noooo noooo, noooo no

one aggregate, than the high and mighty business of whaling. One way
noo noooooooo, nooo noo nooo noo nooooo nooooooo no noooooo. Noo noo

and another, it has begotten events so remarkable in themselves, and so
noo noooooo, no noo nooooooo nooooo no nooooooooo no nooooooooo, noo no

continuously momentous in their sequential issues, that whaling may
nooooooooooo noooooooo no noooo nooooooooo nooooo, nooo noooooo noo

well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore offspring themselves
nooo no nooooooo no nooo Nooooooo nooooo, noo nooo noooooooo nooooooooo

pregnant from her womb. It would be a hopeless, endless task to
nooooooo nooo noo nooo. No noooo no n nooooooo, noooooo nooo no

catalogue all these things. Let a handful suffice. For many years past
noooooooo noo noooo nooooo. Noo n noooooo noooooo. Noo nooo noooo nooo

the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest and
noo noooo-nooo noo nooo noo noooooo no noooooooo noo noo nooooooo noo

least known parts of the earth. She has explored seas and archipelagoes
noooo noooo noooo no noo noooo. Noo noo nooooooo nooo noo noooooooooooo

which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed. If
noooo noo no noooo, noooo no Nooo no Noooooooo noo nooo nooooo. No

American and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage
Nooooooo noo Nooooooo noo-no-noo noo nooooooooo nooo no nooo nooooo

harbors, let them fire salutes to the honour and glory of the
noooooo, noo nooo nooo noooooo no noo nooooo noo noooo no noo

whale-ship, which originally showed them the way, and first interpreted
noooo-nooo, noooo nooooooooo nooooo nooo noo noo, noo noooo noooooooooo

between them and the savages. They may celebrate as they will the heroes
noooooo nooo noo noo noooooo. Nooo noo noooooooo no nooo nooo noo nooooo

of Exploring Expeditions, your Cooks, your Krusensterns; but I say that
no Noooooooo Noooooooooo, nooo Noooo, nooo Nooooooooooo; noo N noo nooo

scores of anonymous Captains have sailed out of Nantucket, that were
nooooo no noooooooo Nooooooo nooo nooooo noo no Noooooooo, nooo nooo

as great, and greater than your Cook and your Krusenstern. For in their
no noooo, noo noooooo nooo nooo Nooo noo nooo Noooooooooo. Noo no noooo

succourless empty-handedness, they, in the heathenish sharked waters,
noooooooooo noooo-nooooooooo, nooo, no noo nooooooooo noooooo nooooo,

and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands, battled with virgin
noo no noo noooooo no nooooooooo, noooooo noooooo, noooooo nooo nooooo

wonders and terrors that Cook with all his marines and muskets would
noooooo noo noooooo nooo Nooo nooo noo noo noooooo noo noooooo noooo

not willingly have dared. All that is made such a flourish of in the old
noo noooooooo nooo noooo. Noo nooo no nooo nooo n nooooooo no no noo noo

South Sea Voyages, those things were but the life-time commonplaces of
Noooo Noo Noooooo, noooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooo-nooo nooooooooooo no

our heroic Nantucketers. Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates
noo nooooo Nooooooooooo. Noooo, nooooooooo noooo Noooooooo noooooooo

three chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the
noooo nooooooo no, noooo noo noooooooo nooooooo no noooo noo nooo no noo

ship's common log. Ah, the world! Oh, the world!
nooo'n nooooo noo. No, noo noooo! No, noo noooo!




Until the whale fishery rounded Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial,
Noooo noo noooo noooooo noooooo Nooo Nooo, no nooooooo noo nooooooo,

scarcely any intercourse but colonial, was carried on between Europe and
nooooooo noo noooooooooo noo nooooooo, noo noooooo no noooooo Nooooo noo

the long line of the opulent Spanish provinces on the Pacific coast.
noo nooo nooo no noo noooooo Noooooo noooooooo no noo Noooooo noooo.

It was the whaleman who first broke through the jealous policy of the
No noo noo nooooooo noo noooo noooo noooooo noo noooooo nooooo no noo

Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if space permitted, it
Noooooo noooo, nooooooo noooo nooooooo; noo, no noooo noooooooo, no

might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last eventuated the
noooo no nooooooooo noooo noo nooo noooo nooooooo no nooo nooooooooo noo

liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old Spain, and
nooooooooo no Nooo, Noooo, noo Noooooo nooo noo nooo no Noo Noooo, noo

the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.
noo noooooooooooo no noo noooooo noooooooo no noooo noooo.




That great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given
Nooo noooo Noooooo no noo noooo nooo no noo nooooo, Noooooooo, noo noooo

to the enlightened world by the whaleman. After its first blunder-born
no noo noooooooooo noooo no noo nooooooo. Noooo noo noooo noooooo-nooo

discovery by a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores
noooooooo no n Nooooooo, noo noooo noooo nooo noooooo noooo nooooo

as pestiferously barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there. The
no noooooooooooo noooooooo; noo noo noooo-nooo noooooo noooo. Noo

whale-ship is the true mother of that now mighty colony. Moreover,
noooo-nooo no noo nooo nooooo no nooo noo nooooo nooooo. Nooooooo,

in the infancy of the first Australian settlement, the emigrants were
no noo noooooo no noo noooo Nooooooooo nooooooooo, noo noooooooo nooo

several times saved from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the
noooooo noooo noooo nooo nooooooooo no noo nooooooooo noooooo no noo

whale-ship luckily dropping an anchor in their waters. The uncounted
noooo-nooo noooooo nooooooo no nooooo no noooo nooooo. Noo noooooooo

isles of all Polynesia confess the same truth, and do commercial homage
noooo no noo Noooooooo noooooo noo nooo noooo, noo no nooooooooo nooooo

to the whale-ship, that cleared the way for the missionary and the
no noo noooo-nooo, nooo noooooo noo noo noo noo nooooooooo noo noo

merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive missionaries to their
nooooooo, noo no nooo noooo noooooo noo noooooooo nooooooooooo no noooo

first destinations. If that double-bolted land, Japan, is ever to become
noooo nooooooooooo. No nooo nooooo-nooooo nooo, Noooo, no nooo no nooooo

hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit will be due;
nooooooooo, no no noo noooo-nooo noooo no nooo noo nooooo nooo no noo;

for already she is on the threshold.
noo noooooo noo no no noo noooooooo.




But if, in the face of all this, you still declare that whaling has no
Noo no, no noo nooo no noo nooo, noo noooo noooooo nooo noooooo noo no

aesthetically noble associations connected with it, then am I ready to
noooooooooooo noooo nooooooooooo noooooooo nooo no, nooo no N noooo no

shiver fifty lances with you there, and unhorse you with a split helmet
nooooo noooo nooooo nooo noo noooo, noo noooooo noo nooo n noooo nooooo

every time.
noooo nooo.




The whale has no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you
Noo noooo noo no nooooo nooooo, noo noooooo no nooooo nooooooooo, noo

will say.
nooo noo.




THE WHALE NO FAMOUS AUTHOR, AND WHALING NO FAMOUS CHRONICLER? Who wrote
NOO NOOOO NO NOOOOO NOOOOO, NOO NOOOOOO NO NOOOOO NOOOOOOOOO? Noo noooo

the first account of our Leviathan? Who but mighty Job! And who composed
noo noooo noooooo no noo Noooooooo? Noo noo nooooo Noo! Noo noo nooooooo

the first narrative of a whaling-voyage? Who, but no less a prince than
noo noooo noooooooo no n noooooo-nooooo? Noo, noo no nooo n nooooo nooo

Alfred the Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from
Nooooo noo Noooo, noo, nooo noo noo noooo noo, nooo nooo noo noooo nooo

Other, the Norwegian whale-hunter of those times! And who pronounced our
Noooo, noo Noooooooo noooo-nooooo no noooo noooo! Noo noo nooooooooo noo

glowing eulogy in Parliament? Who, but Edmund Burke!
noooooo nooooo no Nooooooooo? Noo, noo Nooooo Noooo!




True enough, but then whalemen themselves are poor devils; they have no
Nooo nooooo, noo nooo nooooooo nooooooooo noo nooo nooooo; nooo nooo no

good blood in their veins.
nooo noooo no noooo noooo.




NO GOOD BLOOD IN THEIR VEINS? They have something better than royal
NO NOOO NOOOO NO NOOOO NOOOO? Nooo nooo noooooooo nooooo nooo noooo

blood there. The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel;
noooo noooo. Noo noooooooooo no Nooooooo Nooooooo noo Nooo Nooooo;

afterwards, by marriage, Mary Folger, one of the old settlers
nooooooooo, no nooooooo, Nooo Nooooo, noo no noo noo nooooooo

of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a long line of Folgers and
no Noooooooo, noo noo nooooooooo no n nooo nooo no Noooooo noo

harpooneers--all kith and kin to noble Benjamin--this day darting the
noooooooooo--noo nooo noo noo no noooo Nooooooo--nooo noo noooooo noo

barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.
nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo no noo noooo no noo noooo.




Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not
Nooo noooo; noo nooo noo noooooo nooo noooooo noooooo no noo

respectable.
noooooooooo.




WHALING NOT RESPECTABLE? Whaling is imperial! By old English statutory
NOOOOOO NOO NOOOOOOOOOO? Noooooo no nooooooo! No noo Noooooo noooooooo

law, the whale is declared "a royal fish."*
noo, noo noooo no nooooooo "n noooo nooo."*




Oh, that's only nominal! The whale himself has never figured in any
No, nooo'n nooo noooooo! Noo noooo noooooo noo noooo noooooo no noo

grand imposing way.
noooo nooooooo noo.




THE WHALE NEVER FIGURED IN ANY GRAND IMPOSING WAY? In one of the mighty
NOO NOOOO NOOOO NOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOO NOOOOOOO NOO? No noo no noo nooooo

triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the world's capital,
nooooooo noooo no n Noooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo noo noooo'n noooooo,

the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian coast, were
noo noooo no n noooo, noooooo noo noo noo nooo noo Nooooo noooo, nooo

the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.*
noo nooo noooooooooo nooooo no noo noooooooo nooooooooo.*







*See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
*Noo nooooooooo nooooooo noo noooooooo nooo no nooo nooo.







Grant it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real
Noooo no, noooo noo nooo no; noo, noo nooo noo nooo, noooo no no nooo

dignity in whaling.
noooooo no noooooo.




NO DIGNITY IN WHALING? The dignity of our calling the very heavens
NO NOOOOOO NO NOOOOOO? Noo noooooo no noo noooooo noo nooo noooooo

attest. Cetus is a constellation in the South! No more! Drive down your
nooooo. Noooo no n noooooooooooo no noo Noooo! No nooo! Noooo nooo nooo

hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg! No more! I
noo no nooooooo no noo Nooo, noo nooo no noo no Nooooooo! No nooo! N

know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty
nooo n noo nooo, no noo nooooooo, noo noooo noooo noooooo noo noooo

whales. I account that man more honourable than that great captain of
nooooo. N noooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooo nooo nooo noooo noooooo no

antiquity who boasted of taking as many walled towns.
noooooooo noo noooooo no nooooo no nooo nooooo noooo.




And, as for me, if, by any possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered
Noo, no noo no, no, no noo noooooooooo, noooo no noo no noo nooooooooooo

prime thing in me; if I shall ever deserve any real repute in that small
noooo noooo no no; no N noooo nooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo no nooo noooo

but high hushed world which I might not be unreasonably ambitious of; if
noo nooo nooooo noooo noooo N noooo noo no nooooooooooo noooooooo no; no

hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole, a man might rather
noooooooo N noooo no nooooooo nooo, nooo noo noooo, n noo noooo nooooo

have done than to have left undone; if, at my death, my executors, or
nooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo nooooo; no, no no noooo, no noooooooo, no

more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS. in my desk, then here
nooo nooooooo no noooooooo, nooo noo nooooooo NOO. no no nooo, nooo nooo

I prospectively ascribe all the honour and the glory to whaling; for a
N noooooooooooo noooooo noo noo nooooo noo noo noooo no noooooo; noo n

whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.
noooo-nooo noo no Nooo Noooooo noo no Noooooo.










CHAPTER 25. Postscript.
NOOOOOO no. Nooooooooo.







In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I would fain advance naught but
No nooooo no noo noooooo no noooooo, N noooo nooo noooooo nooooo noo

substantiated facts. But after embattling his facts, an advocate who
noooooooooooo noooo. Noo noooo nooooooooo noo noooo, no nooooooo noo

should wholly suppress a not unreasonable surmise, which might
nooooo nooooo nooooooo n noo nooooooooooo noooooo, noooo noooo

tell eloquently upon his cause--such an advocate, would he not be
nooo nooooooooo nooo noo noooo--nooo no nooooooo, noooo no noo no

blameworthy?
noooooooooo?




It is well known that at the coronation of kings and queens, even modern
No no nooo noooo nooo no noo nooooooooo no noooo noo nooooo, nooo nooooo

ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for their functions is
nooo, n noooooo noooooo noooooo no noooooooo nooo noo noooo noooooooo no

gone through. There is a saltcellar of state, so called, and there
nooo noooooo. Noooo no n nooooooooo no noooo, no nooooo, noo noooo

may be a castor of state. How they use the salt, precisely--who knows?
noo no n nooooo no noooo. Noo nooo noo noo nooo, noooooooo--noo noooo?

Certain I am, however, that a king's head is solemnly oiled at his
Noooooo N no, noooooo, nooo n nooo'n nooo no nooooooo noooo no noo

coronation, even as a head of salad. Can it be, though, that they
nooooooooo, nooo no n nooo no noooo. Noo no no, nooooo, nooo nooo

anoint it with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint
nooooo no nooo n nooo no nooooo noo nooooooo noo nooo, no nooo nooooo

machinery? Much might be ruminated here, concerning the essential
noooooooo? Nooo noooo no noooooooo nooo, nooooooooo noo noooooooo

dignity of this regal process, because in common life we esteem but
noooooo no nooo noooo noooooo, noooooo no nooooo nooo no nooooo noo

meanly and contemptibly a fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably
nooooo noo nooooooooooo n nooooo noo noooooo noo nooo, noo nooooooo

smells of that anointing. In truth, a mature man who uses hair-oil,
nooooo no nooo noooooooo. No noooo, n nooooo noo noo nooo nooo-noo,

unless medicinally, that man has probably got a quoggy spot in him
nooooo noooooooooo, nooo noo noo nooooooo noo n nooooo nooo no noo

somewhere. As a general rule, he can't amount to much in his totality.
noooooooo. No n noooooo nooo, no noo'n nooooo no nooo no noo nooooooo.




But the only thing to be considered here, is this--what kind of oil is
Noo noo nooo noooo no no nooooooooo nooo, no nooo--nooo nooo no noo no

used at coronations? Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar oil,
nooo no noooooooooo? Noooooooo no nooooo no noooo noo, noo nooooooo noo,

nor castor oil, nor bear's oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil. What
noo nooooo noo, noo nooo'n noo, noo noooo noo, noo noo-noooo noo. Nooo

then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
nooo noo no nooooooo no, noo noooo noo no noo nooooooooooooo, nooooooooo

state, the sweetest of all oils?
noooo, noo nooooooo no noo nooo?




Think of that, ye loyal Britons! we whalemen supply your kings and
Noooo no nooo, no noooo Noooooo! no nooooooo nooooo nooo noooo noo

queens with coronation stuff!
nooooo nooo nooooooooo noooo!










CHAPTER 26. Knights and Squires.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooo noo Noooooo.







The chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a
Noo noooo nooo no noo Nooooo noo Nooooooo, n nooooo no Noooooooo, noo n

Quaker by descent. He was a long, earnest man, and though born on an icy
Nooooo no noooooo. No noo n nooo, noooooo noo, noo nooooo nooo no no noo

coast, seemed well adapted to endure hot latitudes, his flesh being hard
noooo, nooooo nooo noooooo no nooooo noo noooooooo, noo noooo noooo nooo

as twice-baked biscuit. Transported to the Indies, his live blood would
no noooo-noooo noooooo. Noooooooooo no noo Nooooo, noo nooo noooo noooo

not spoil like bottled ale. He must have been born in some time of
noo noooo nooo noooooo noo. No nooo nooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo no

general drought and famine, or upon one of those fast days for which
noooooo noooooo noo nooooo, no nooo noo no noooo nooo nooo noo noooo

his state is famous. Only some thirty arid summers had he seen; those
noo noooo no nooooo. Nooo nooo nooooo nooo noooooo noo no nooo; noooo

summers had dried up all his physical superfluousness. But this, his
noooooo noo noooo no noo noo nooooooo noooooooooooooo. Noo nooo, noo

thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the token of wasting anxieties and
nooooooo, no no noooo, nooooo no nooo noo noooo no noooooo noooooooo noo

cares, than it seemed the indication of any bodily blight. It was merely
noooo, nooo no nooooo noo nooooooooo no noo nooooo nooooo. No noo nooooo

the condensation of the man. He was by no means ill-looking; quite the
noo nooooooooooo no noo noo. No noo no no noooo noo-noooooo; noooo noo

contrary. His pure tight skin was an excellent fit; and closely wrapped
nooooooo. Noo nooo noooo nooo noo no noooooooo noo; noo noooooo noooooo

up in it, and embalmed with inner health and strength, like a revivified
no no no, noo nooooooo nooo noooo nooooo noo nooooooo, nooo n nooooooooo

Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure for long ages to come,
Nooooooo, nooo Nooooooo nooooo nooooooo no nooooo noo nooo nooo no nooo,

and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or torrid sun, like
noo no nooooo nooooo, no noo; noo no no Noooo nooo no nooooo noo, nooo

a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to do well
n nooooo noooooooooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo noo noooooooo no no nooo

in all climates. Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the yet
no noo nooooooo. Noooooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooooo no noo noooo noo noo

lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted
noooooooo nooooo no noooo nooooooo-nooo nooooo no noo nooooo nooooooooo

through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
noooooo nooo. N noooo, noooooooo noo, noooo nooo noo noo nooo nooo noo n

telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds. Yet, for
noooooo noooooooo no nooooo, noo noo n nooo noooooo no nooooo. Noo, noo

all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities
noo noo noooo nooooooo noo noooooooo, noooo nooo noooooo noooooooo

in him which at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to
no noo noooo no noooo nooooooo, noo no nooo noooo nooooo nooo nooo no

overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and
noooooooooo noo noo nooo. Nooooooooo noooooooooooo noo n nooooo, noo

endued with a deep natural reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his
nooooo nooo n nooo noooooo noooooooo, noo nooo nooooo nooooooooo no noo

life did therefore strongly incline him to superstition; but to that
nooo noo noooooooo nooooooo noooooo noo no nooooooooooo; noo no nooo

sort of superstition, which in some organizations seems rather to
nooo no nooooooooooo, noooo no nooo noooooooooooo noooo nooooo no

spring, somehow, from intelligence than from ignorance. Outward portents
nooooo, noooooo, nooo nooooooooooo nooo nooo noooooooo. Noooooo nooooooo

and inward presentiments were his. And if at times these things bent the
noo nooooo noooooooooooo nooo noo. Noo no no noooo noooo nooooo nooo noo

welded iron of his soul, much more did his far-away domestic memories
nooooo nooo no noo nooo, nooo nooo noo noo noo-nooo nooooooo nooooooo

of his young Cape wife and child, tend to bend him still more from the
no noo noooo Nooo nooo noo noooo, nooo no nooo noo noooo nooo nooo noo

original ruggedness of his nature, and open him still further to those
nooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo, noo nooo noo noooo noooooo no noooo

latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men, restrain the gush
nooooo nooooooooo noooo, no nooo nooooo-noooooo noo, nooooooo noo nooo

of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by others in the more perilous
no nooo-noooo nooooo, no noooo noooooo no nooooo no noo nooo nooooooo

vicissitudes of the fishery. "I will have no man in my boat," said
nooooooooooo no noo noooooo. "N nooo nooo no noo no no nooo," nooo

Starbuck, "who is not afraid of a whale." By this, he seemed to mean,
Nooooooo, "noo no noo nooooo no n noooo." No nooo, no nooooo no nooo,

not only that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises
noo nooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo noo nooooo noooooo noo nooo noooo nooooo

from the fair estimation of the encountered peril, but that an utterly
nooo noo nooo nooooooooo no noo noooooooooo noooo, noo nooo no noooooo

fearless man is a far more dangerous comrade than a coward.
nooooooo noo no n noo nooo noooooooo noooooo nooo n nooooo.




"Aye, aye," said Stubb, the second mate, "Starbuck, there, is as careful
"Noo, noo," nooo Noooo, noo nooooo nooo, "Nooooooo, noooo, no no noooooo

a man as you'll find anywhere in this fishery." But we shall ere long
n noo no noo'no nooo nooooooo no nooo noooooo." Noo no noooo noo nooo

see what that word "careful" precisely means when used by a man like
noo nooo nooo nooo "noooooo" noooooooo noooo nooo nooo no n noo nooo

Stubb, or almost any other whale hunter.
Noooo, no nooooo noo noooo noooo nooooo.




Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him courage was not a
Nooooooo noo no nooooooo noooo nooooo; no noo noooooo noo noo n

sentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always at hand upon all
noooooooo; noo n noooo nooooo nooooo no noo, noo nooooo no nooo nooo noo

mortally practical occasions. Besides, he thought, perhaps, that in this
nooooooo noooooooo noooooooo. Noooooo, no noooooo, noooooo, nooo no nooo

business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits of
nooooooo no noooooo, noooooo noo noo no noo noooo nooooo noooooo no

the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted.
noo nooo, nooo noo nooo noo noo noooo, noo noo no no noooooooo nooooo.

Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor
Noooooooo no noo no noooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo noooo noo-nooo; noo

for persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting
noo nooooooooo no nooooooo n nooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo no nooooooo

him. For, thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill
noo. Noo, noooooo Nooooooo, N no nooo no nooo nooooooo noooo no nooo

whales for my living, and not to be killed by them for theirs; and that
nooooo noo no nooooo, noo noo no no nooooo no nooo noo nooooo; noo nooo

hundreds of men had been so killed Starbuck well knew. What doom was
nooooooo no noo noo nooo no nooooo Nooooooo nooo nooo. Nooo nooo noo

his own father's? Where, in the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn
noo noo nooooo'n? Noooo, no noo nooooooooo noooo, noooo no nooo noo nooo

limbs of his brother?
noooo no noo noooooo?




With memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
Nooo nooooooo nooo noooo no noo, noo, nooooooo, noooo no n noooooo

superstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which
noooooooooooooooo, no noo nooo nooo; noo noooooo no nooo Nooooooo noooo

could, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme. But
noooo, nooooooooooo, noooo nooooooo, nooo nooooo nooo nooo noooooo. Noo

it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such
no noo noo no nooooooooo nooooo nooo n noo no noooooooo, noo nooo nooo

terrible experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature
nooooooo noooooooooo noo nooooooooooo no no noo; no noo noo no nooooo

that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in
nooo noooo nooooo nooooo nooo no nooooooo noooooooooo no noooooo no

him, which, under suitable circumstances, would break out from its
noo, noooo, noooo nooooooo noooooooooooo, noooo noooo noo nooo noo

confinement, and burn all his courage up. And brave as he might be, it
noooooooooo, noo nooo noo noo noooooo no. Noo noooo no no noooo no, no

was that sort of bravery chiefly, visible in some intrepid men, which,
noo nooo nooo no noooooo noooooo, noooooo no nooo nooooooo noo, noooo,

while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas, or winds, or
noooo noooooooo noooooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooo nooo, no noooo, no

whales, or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world, yet
nooooo, no noo no noo nooooooo nooooooooo noooooo no noo noooo, noo

cannot withstand those more terrific, because more spiritual terrors,
nooooo noooooooo noooo nooo nooooooo, noooooo nooo noooooooo noooooo,

which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and
noooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooo noo noooooooooooo nooo no no noooooo noo

mighty man.
nooooo noo.




But were the coming narrative to reveal in any instance, the complete
Noo nooo noo nooooo noooooooo no nooooo no noo nooooooo, noo nooooooo

abasement of poor Starbuck's fortitude, scarce might I have the heart to
noooooooo no nooo Nooooooo'n noooooooo, nooooo noooo N nooo noo noooo no

write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking, to expose
noooo no; noo no no n noooo nooo noooooooo, noo nooooooo, no nooooo

the fall of valour in the soul. Men may seem detestable as joint
noo nooo no nooooo no noo nooo. Noo noo nooo nooooooooo no noooo

stock-companies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers there may be;
noooo-noooooooo noo noooooo; nooooo, noooo, noo noooooooo noooo noo no;

men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so noble
noo noo nooo nooo noo nooooo noooo; noo noo, no noo noooo, no no noooo

and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over any
noo no noooooooo, nooo n noooo noo noooooo nooooooo, nooo nooo noo

ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw their
noooooooooo noooooo no noo noo noo noooooo nooooo noo no noooo noooo

costliest robes. That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves,
noooooooo noooo. Nooo nooooooooo noooooooo no nooo nooooo noooooooo,

so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer character
no noo nooooo no, nooo no noooooo nooooo nooooo noo noo noooo noooooooo

seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of
nooo nooo; nooooo nooo noooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo no

a valor-ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
n noooo-nooooo noo. Noo noo noooo nooooo, no nooo n nooooooo noooo,

completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars. But this
nooooooooo nooooo noo noooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooooo noooo. Noo nooo

august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but
nooooo noooooo N noooo no, no noo noo noooooo no noooo noo noooo, noo

that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture. Thou shalt see it
nooo noooooooo noooooo noooo noo no noooo noooooooooo. Nooo noooo noo no

shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic
noooooo no noo noo nooo nooooo n nooo no nooooo n noooo; nooo nooooooooo

dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself! The
noooooo noooo, no noo noooo, nooooooo noooooo noo nooo Noo; Noooooo! Noo

great God absolute! The centre and circumference of all democracy! His
noooo Noo nooooooo! Noo nooooo noo noooooooooooo no noo noooooooo! Noo

omnipresence, our divine equality!
nooooooooooo, noo nooooo nooooooo!




If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and castaways, I shall
No, nooo, no noooooo nooooooo, noo noooooooo noo noooooooo, N noooo

hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round them tragic
noooooooo noooooo nooo noooooooo, nooooo nooo; noooo noooo nooo nooooo

graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased, among them
nooooo; no nooo noo nooo nooooooo, noooooooo noo nooo nooooo, noooo nooo

all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall touch
noo, noooo no noooo nooo noooooo no noo noooooo nooooo; no N noooo noooo

that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a rainbow
nooo noooooo'n noo nooo nooo nooooooo noooo; no N noooo nooooo n noooooo

over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics bear
nooo noo nooooooooo noo no noo; nooo noooooo noo nooooo noooooo nooo

me out in it, thou Just Spirit of Equality, which hast spread one royal
no noo no no, nooo Nooo Nooooo no Nooooooo, noooo nooo nooooo noo noooo

mantle of humanity over all my kind! Bear me out in it, thou great
nooooo no nooooooo nooo noo no nooo! Nooo no noo no no, nooo noooo

democratic God! who didst not refuse to the swart convict, Bunyan, the
nooooooooo Noo! noo noooo noo nooooo no noo noooo noooooo, Nooooo, noo

pale, poetic pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves
nooo, nooooo noooo; Nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo nooooo nooooooo nooooo

of finest gold, the stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who
no nooooo nooo, noo noooooo noo nooooooo noo no noo Noooooooo; Nooo noo

didst pick up Andrew Jackson from the pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a
noooo nooo no Nooooo Noooooo nooo noo noooooo; noo noooo nooo noo nooo n

war-horse; who didst thunder him higher than a throne! Thou who, in all
noo-noooo; noo noooo noooooo noo nooooo nooo n nooooo! Nooo noo, no noo

Thy mighty, earthly marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from
Noo nooooo, noooooo noooooooo, nooo noooooo Noo noooooooo noooooooo nooo

the kingly commons; bear me out in it, O God!
noo nooooo noooooo; nooo no noo no no, N Noo!










CHAPTER 27. Knights and Squires.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooo noo Noooooo.







Stubb was the second mate. He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence,
Noooo noo noo nooooo nooo. No noo n nooooo no Nooo Noo; noo noooo,

according to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky;
noooooooo no noooo noooo, noo nooooo n Nooo-Noo-noo. N noooo-no-noooo;

neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as they came with an
noooooo nooooo noo noooooo; nooooo nooooo no nooo nooo nooo no

indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent crisis of the
noooooooooo noo; noo noooo noooooo no noo nooo nooooooo nooooo no noo

chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner engaged
noooo, noooooo nooo, nooo noo noooooooo no n nooooooooo nooooo noooooo

for the year. Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
noo noo nooo. Nooo-noooooo, nooo, noo nooooooo, no nooooooo nooo noo

whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his
noooo-nooo no no noo nooo nooooo noooooooo nooo noo n nooooo, noo noo

crew all invited guests. He was as particular about the comfortable
nooo noo noooooo nooooo. No noo no nooooooooo noooo noo noooooooooo

arrangement of his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the
noooooooooo no noo nooo no noo nooo, no no noo noooo-nooooo no noooo noo

snugness of his box. When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of
nooooooo no noo noo. Nooo noooo no noo noooo, no noo nooo noooo-nooo no

the fight, he handled his unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as
noo noooo, no noooooo noo noooooooo noooo nooooo noo noo-nooooooo, no

a whistling tinker his hammer. He would hum over his old rigadig tunes
n noooooooo nooooo noo nooooo. No noooo noo nooo noo noo noooooo noooo

while flank and flank with the most exasperated monster. Long usage had,
noooo noooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo noooooooooo noooooo. Nooo noooo noo,

for this Stubb, converted the jaws of death into an easy chair. What he
noo nooo Noooo, noooooooo noo nooo no noooo nooo no nooo noooo. Nooo no

thought of death itself, there is no telling. Whether he ever thought of
noooooo no noooo nooooo, noooo no no noooooo. Noooooo no nooo noooooo no

it at all, might be a question; but, if he ever did chance to cast his
no no noo, noooo no n nooooooo; noo, no no nooo noo nooooo no nooo noo

mind that way after a comfortable dinner, no doubt, like a good sailor,
nooo nooo noo noooo n noooooooooo nooooo, no noooo, nooo n nooo nooooo,

he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to tumble aloft, and bestir
no nooo no no no n nooo no nooo no noo noooo no nooooo noooo, noo nooooo

themselves there, about something which he would find out when he obeyed
nooooooooo noooo, noooo noooooooo noooo no noooo nooo noo nooo no nooooo

the order, and not sooner.
noo noooo, noo noo nooooo.




What, perhaps, with other things, made Stubb such an easy-going,
Nooo, noooooo, nooo noooo nooooo, nooo Noooo nooo no nooo-noooo,

unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off with the burden of life in a
noooooooo noo, no nooooooo nooooooo noo nooo noo nooooo no nooo no n

world full of grave pedlars, all bowed to the ground with their packs;
noooo nooo no noooo noooooo, noo noooo no noo nooooo nooo noooo noooo;

what helped to bring about that almost impious good-humor of his; that
nooo nooooo no noooo noooo nooo nooooo noooooo nooo-noooo no noo; nooo

thing must have been his pipe. For, like his nose, his short, black
noooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo. Noo, nooo noo nooo, noo noooo, noooo

little pipe was one of the regular features of his face. You would
nooooo nooo noo noo no noo noooooo nooooooo no noo nooo. Noo noooo

almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
nooooo no nooo nooo nooooooo noo no nooo noo no noo nooo noooooo noo

nose as without his pipe. He kept a whole row of pipes there ready
nooo no noooooo noo nooo. No nooo n noooo noo no noooo noooo noooo

loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy reach of his hand; and, whenever he
nooooo, noooo no n nooo, nooooo nooo noooo no noo nooo; noo, nooooooo no

turned in, he smoked them all out in succession, lighting one from
nooooo no, no nooooo nooo noo noo no nooooooooo, nooooooo noo nooo

the other to the end of the chapter; then loading them again to be in
noo noooo no noo noo no noo noooooo; nooo noooooo nooo noooo no no no

readiness anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting his
noooooooo nooo. Noo, nooo Noooo noooooo, noooooo no noooo noooooo noo

legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.
nooo nooo noo nooooooo, no noo noo nooo nooo noo noooo.




I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
N noo nooo noooooooo noooooo nooo nooo nooo noo noooo, no noooo, no noo

peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether
nooooooo noooooooooo; noo noooo noo noooo nooo nooo noooooo noo, noooooo

ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of
nooooo no nooooo, no nooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooooo no

the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in time of the
noo nooooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooo nooooooo no; noo no no nooo no noo

cholera, some people go about with a camphorated handkerchief to their
noooooo, nooo nooooo no noooo nooo n noooooooooo nooooooooooo no noooo

mouths; so, likewise, against all mortal tribulations, Stubb's tobacco
nooooo; no, nooooooo, noooooo noo nooooo nooooooooooo, Noooo'n noooooo

smoke might have operated as a sort of disinfecting agent.
noooo noooo nooo nooooooo no n nooo no nooooooooooo noooo.




The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha's Vineyard. A
Noo noooo nooo noo Noooo, n nooooo no Noooooo, no Nooooo'n Nooooooo. N

short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious concerning whales,
noooo, noooo, noooo noooo nooooo, nooo nooooooooo nooooooooo nooooo,

who somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personally
noo noooooo nooooo no noooo nooo noo noooo nooooooooo noo nooooooooo

and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it was a sort of point of
noo nooooooooooo noooooooo noo; noo noooooooo no noo n nooo no noooo no

honour with him, to destroy them whenever encountered. So utterly lost
nooooo nooo noo, no noooooo nooo nooooooo noooooooooo. No noooooo nooo

was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their majestic
noo no no noo noooo no noooooooo noo noo nooo noooooo no noooo nooooooo

bulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension of
nooo noo nooooo nooo; noo no nooo no nooooooo nooo no nooooooooooo no

any possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion,
noo nooooooo nooooo nooo nooooooooooo nooo; nooo no noo nooo noooooo,

the wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least
noo nooooooo noooo noo noo n noooooo no noooooooo noooo, no no noooo

water-rat, requiring only a little circumvention and some small
noooo-noo, noooooooo nooo n nooooo noooooooooooo noo nooo noooo

application of time and trouble in order to kill and boil. This
noooooooooo no nooo noo noooooo no noooo no nooo noo nooo. Nooo

ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of his made him a little waggish in
nooooooo, noooooooooo nooooooooooo no noo nooo noo n nooooo noooooo no

the matter of whales; he followed these fish for the fun of it; and a
noo nooooo no nooooo; no nooooooo noooo nooo noo noo noo no no; noo n

three years' voyage round Cape Horn was only a jolly joke that lasted
noooo noooo' nooooo noooo Nooo Nooo noo nooo n noooo nooo nooo nooooo

that length of time. As a carpenter's nails are divided into wrought
nooo nooooo no nooo. No n noooooooo'n noooo noo noooooo nooo noooooo

nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided. Little Flask
noooo noo noo noooo; no noooooo noo no noooooooo noooooo. Nooooo Noooo

was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last long. They
noo noo no noo noooooo nooo; nooo no nooooo noooo noo nooo nooo. Nooo

called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form, he could
nooooo noo Nooo-Nooo no noooo no noo Nooooo; noooooo, no nooo, no noooo

be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in Arctic
no nooo noooooo no noo noooo, nooooo nooooo noooo no nooo nooo no Nooooo

whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers inserted
noooooo; noo noooo no noo noooo no nooo noooooooo nooo noooooo nooooooo

into it, serves to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those
nooo no, nooooo no noooo noo nooo noooooo noo noo noooooooooo no noooo

battering seas.
noooooooo nooo.




Now these three mates--Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were momentous
Noo noooo noooo noooo--Nooooooo, Noooo, noo Noooo, nooo noooooooo

men. They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of the
noo. Nooo no noo noo no noooooooo nooooooooooo noooooooo noooo no noo

Pequod's boats as headsmen. In that grand order of battle in which
Nooooo'n noooo no nooooooo. No nooo noooo noooo no nooooo no noooo

Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales,
Noooooo Nooo noooo nooooooo noooooo noo nooooo no noooooo no noo nooooo,

these three headsmen were as captains of companies. Or, being armed with
noooo noooo nooooooo nooo no nooooooo no noooooooo. No, noooo noooo nooo

their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers;
noooo nooo nooo noooooo nooooo, nooo nooo no n nooooo nooo no noooooo;

even as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.
nooo no noo noooooooooo nooo nooooooo no nooooooo.




And since in this famous fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic
Noo noooo no nooo nooooo noooooo, nooo nooo no nooooooo, nooo n Nooooo

Knight of old, is always accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer,
Nooooo no noo, no nooooo noooooooooo no noo nooo-noooooo no nooooooooo,

who in certain conjunctures provides him with a fresh lance, when
noo no noooooo nooooooooooo nooooooo noo nooo n noooo noooo, nooo

the former one has been badly twisted, or elbowed in the assault; and
noo nooooo noo noo nooo noooo noooooo, no noooooo no noo noooooo; noo

moreover, as there generally subsists between the two, a close intimacy
nooooooo, no noooo noooooooo nooooooo noooooo noo noo, n noooo nooooooo

and friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in this place we set
noo nooooooooooo; no no noooooooo noo nooo, nooo no nooo noooo no noo

down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what headsman each of
nooo noo noo Nooooo'n noooooooooo nooo, noo no nooo nooooooo nooo no

them belonged.
nooo nooooooo.




First of all was Queequeg, whom Starbuck, the chief mate, had selected
Noooo no noo noo Nooooooo, nooo Nooooooo, noo noooo nooo, noo nooooooo

for his squire. But Queequeg is already known.
noo noo nooooo. Noo Nooooooo no noooooo noooo.




Next was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly
Nooo noo Nooooooo, no noooooo Nooooo nooo Noo Nooo, noo nooo nooooooo

promontory of Martha's Vineyard, where there still exists the last
nooooooooo no Nooooo'n Nooooooo, noooo noooo noooo nooooo noo nooo

remnant of a village of red men, which has long supplied the neighboring
noooooo no n noooooo no noo noo, noooo noo nooo nooooooo noo noooooooooo

island of Nantucket with many of her most daring harpooneers. In the
nooooo no Noooooooo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo noooooooooo. No noo

fishery, they usually go by the generic name of Gay-Headers. Tashtego's
noooooo, nooo noooooo no no noo noooooo nooo no Noo-Noooooo. Nooooooo'n

long, lean, sable hair, his high cheek bones, and black rounding
nooo, nooo, noooo nooo, noo nooo noooo noooo, noo noooo nooooooo

eyes--for an Indian, Oriental in their largeness, but Antarctic in their
nooo--noo no Nooooo, Nooooooo no noooo noooooooo, noo Noooooooo no noooo

glittering expression--all this sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor
nooooooooo nooooooooo--noo nooo nooooooooooo nooooooooo noo no noooooooo

of the unvitiated blood of those proud warrior hunters, who, in quest
no noo nooooooooo noooo no noooo noooo noooooo noooooo, noo, no noooo

of the great New England moose, had scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal
no noo noooo Noo Noooooo noooo, noo noooooo, noo no nooo, noo nooooooooo

forests of the main. But no longer snuffing in the trail of the wild
noooooo no noo nooo. Noo no nooooo nooooooo no noo noooo no noo nooo

beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now hunted in the wake of the great
nooooo no noo nooooooo, Nooooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo no noo noooo

whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon of the son fitly replacing the
nooooo no noo noo; noo nooooooo noooooo no noo noo noooo noooooooo noo

infallible arrow of the sires. To look at the tawny brawn of his lithe
nooooooooo noooo no noo noooo. No nooo no noo noooo noooo no noo noooo

snaky limbs, you would almost have credited the superstitions of some of
noooo noooo, noo noooo nooooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooooooooo no nooo no

the earlier Puritans, and half-believed this wild Indian to be a son
noo noooooo Nooooooo, noo nooo-nooooooo nooo nooo Nooooo no no n noo

of the Prince of the Powers of the Air. Tashtego was Stubb the second
no noo Nooooo no noo Nooooo no noo Noo. Nooooooo noo Noooo noo nooooo

mate's squire.
nooo'n nooooo.




Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-black
Noooo noooo noo noooooooooo noo Nooooo, n nooooooo, nooo-noooo

negro-savage, with a lion-like tread--an Ahasuerus to behold. Suspended
noooo-nooooo, nooo n nooo-nooo noooo--no Noooooooo no nooooo. Noooooooo

from his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called
nooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooo noooo, no noooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo

them ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to
nooo nooo-noooo, noo noooo nooo no nooooooo noo noo-nooo nooooooo no

them. In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler,
nooo. No noo noooo Nooooo noo noooooooooo noooooo no noooo no n nooooo,

lying in a lonely bay on his native coast. And never having been
noooo no n nooooo noo no noo nooooo noooo. Noo noooo nooooo nooo

anywhere in the world but in Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors
nooooooo no noo noooo noo no Nooooo, Noooooooo, noo noo noooo noooooo

most frequented by whalemen; and having now led for many years the bold
nooo nooooooooo no nooooooo; noo nooooo noo noo noo nooo noooo noo nooo

life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what
nooo no noo noooooo no noo noooo no nooooo nooooooooo noooooo no nooo

manner of men they shipped; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues,
nooooo no noo nooo noooooo; Nooooo nooooooo noo noo nooooooo noooooo,

and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in all the pomp of six
noo noooo no n noooooo, noooo noooo noo noooo no noo noo nooo no noo

feet five in his socks. There was a corporeal humility in looking up at
nooo nooo no noo noooo. Noooo noo n noooooooo nooooooo no noooooo no no

him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to
noo; noo n noooo noo nooooooo nooooo noo nooooo n noooo nooo nooo no

beg truce of a fortress. Curious to tell, this imperial negro, Ahasuerus
noo noooo no n nooooooo. Noooooo no nooo, nooo nooooooo noooo, Noooooooo

Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man
Nooooo, noo noo Nooooo no nooooo Noooo, noo nooooo nooo n noooo-noo

beside him. As for the residue of the Pequod's company, be it said, that
nooooo noo. No noo noo noooooo no noo Nooooo'n noooooo, no no nooo, nooo

at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the
no noo noooooo noo noo noo no noo no noo nooo nooooooo noo nooooo noo

mast employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though
nooo nooooooo no noo Nooooooo noooo noooooo, noo Noooooooo nooo, nooooo

pretty nearly all the officers are. Herein it is the same with the
nooooo nooooo noo noo nooooooo noo. Nooooo no no noo nooo nooo noo

American whale fishery as with the American army and military and
Nooooooo noooo noooooo no nooo noo Nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo noo

merchant navies, and the engineering forces employed in the construction
nooooooo nooooo, noo noo noooooooooo nooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooooo

of the American Canals and Railroads. The same, I say, because in all
no noo Nooooooo Nooooo noo Noooooooo. Noo nooo, N noo, noooooo no noo

these cases the native American liberally provides the brains, the rest
noooo noooo noo nooooo Nooooooo noooooooo nooooooo noo nooooo, noo nooo

of the world as generously supplying the muscles. No small number of
no noo noooo no nooooooooo noooooooo noo noooooo. No noooo nooooo no

these whaling seamen belong to the Azores, where the outward bound
noooo noooooo nooooo nooooo no noo Nooooo, noooo noo noooooo noooo

Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy
Noooooooo noooooo nooooooooo noooo no noooooo noooo noooo nooo noo noooo

peasants of those rocky shores. In like manner, the Greenland whalers
nooooooo no noooo noooo nooooo. No nooo nooooo, noo Noooooooo noooooo

sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland Islands, to
noooooo noo no Nooo no Nooooo, noo no no noo Nooooooo Noooooo, no

receive the full complement of their crew. Upon the passage homewards,
noooooo noo nooo nooooooooo no noooo nooo. Nooo noo noooooo noooooooo,

they drop them there again. How it is, there is no telling, but
nooo nooo nooo noooo noooo. Noo no no, noooo no no noooooo, noo

Islanders seem to make the best whalemen. They were nearly all Islanders
Noooooooo nooo no nooo noo nooo nooooooo. Nooo nooo nooooo noo Noooooooo

in the Pequod, ISOLATOES too, I call such, not acknowledging the common
no noo Nooooo, NOOOOOOOO noo, N nooo nooo, noo noooooooooooo noo nooooo

continent of men, but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his
noooooooo no noo, noo nooo NOOOOOO nooooo no n nooooooo noooooooo no noo

own. Yet now, federated along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes were!
noo. Noo noo, noooooooo noooo noo nooo, nooo n noo noooo Noooooooo nooo!

An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea, and all
No Nooooooooo Nooooo nooooooooo nooo noo noo noooo no noo noo, noo noo

the ends of the earth, accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the
noo nooo no noo noooo, nooooooooooo Noo Nooo no noo Nooooo no noo noo

world's grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever
noooo'n nooooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo nooo no nooo nooo

come back. Black Little Pip--he never did--oh, no! he went before. Poor
nooo nooo. Noooo Nooooo Noo--no noooo noo--no, no! no nooo nooooo. Nooo

Alabama boy! On the grim Pequod's forecastle, ye shall ere long see him,
Noooooo noo! No noo nooo Nooooo'n nooooooooo, no noooo noo nooo noo noo,

beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when sent for,
noooooo noo nooooooooo; noooooooo no noo noooooo nooo, nooo nooo noo,

to the great quarter-deck on high, he was bid strike in with angels, and
no noo noooo noooooo-nooo no nooo, no noo noo nooooo no nooo nooooo, noo

beat his tambourine in glory; called a coward here, hailed a hero there!
nooo noo nooooooooo no noooo; nooooo n nooooo nooo, nooooo n nooo noooo!










CHAPTER 28. Ahab.
NOOOOOO no. Nooo.







For several days after leaving Nantucket, nothing above hatches was seen
Noo noooooo nooo noooo noooooo Noooooooo, noooooo noooo noooooo noo nooo

of Captain Ahab. The mates regularly relieved each other at the watches,
no Noooooo Nooo. Noo noooo noooooooo nooooooo nooo noooo no noo noooooo,

and for aught that could be seen to the contrary, they seemed to be the
noo noo noooo nooo noooo no nooo no noo nooooooo, nooo nooooo no no noo

only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued from the cabin
nooo nooooooooo no noo nooo; nooo nooo noooooooo nooooo nooo noo noooo

with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was plain they
nooo nooooo no nooooo noo nooooooooo, nooo noooo noo no noo noooo nooo

but commanded vicariously. Yes, their supreme lord and dictator was
noo noooooooo noooooooooo. Noo, noooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo noo

there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate
noooo, nooooo nooooooo nooooo no noo nooo noo noooooooo no noooooooo

into the now sacred retreat of the cabin.
nooo noo noo nooooo noooooo no noo noooo.




Every time I ascended to the deck from my watches below, I instantly
Noooo nooo N nooooooo no noo nooo nooo no noooooo noooo, N noooooooo

gazed aft to mark if any strange face were visible; for my first vague
noooo noo no nooo no noo noooooo nooo nooo noooooo; noo no noooo noooo

disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in the seclusion of the
noooooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo noooooo, noo no noo noooooooo no noo

sea, became almost a perturbation. This was strangely heightened
noo, nooooo nooooo n nooooooooooo. Nooo noo noooooooo nooooooooo

at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
no noooo no noo nooooo Nooooo'n nooooooooo nooooooooooo noooooooooo

recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived
noooooooo no no, nooo n nooooo nooooo N noooo noo nooo nooooo noooooooo

of. But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was
no. Noo nooooo noooo N noooooooo nooo, nooo no no noooo noooo N noo

almost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish
nooooo noooo no noooo no noo nooooo nooooooooooooo no nooo nooooooooo

prophet of the wharves. But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or
noooooo no noo noooooo. Noo nooooooo no noo no nooooooooooooooo no

uneasiness--to call it so--which I felt, yet whenever I came to look
nooooooooo--no nooo no no--noooo N nooo, noo nooooooo N nooo no nooo

about me in the ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such
noooo no no noo nooo, no nooooo noooooo noo noooooooo no noooooo nooo

emotions. For though the harpooneers, with the great body of the crew,
nooooooo. Noo nooooo noo noooooooooo, nooo noo noooo nooo no noo nooo,

were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
nooo n noo nooo nooooooo, nooooooooo, noo nooooo noo nooo noo no noo

tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me
nooo nooooooo-nooo noooooooo noooo no nooooooo noooooooooo noo nooo no

acquainted with, still I ascribed this--and rightly ascribed it--to the
nooooooooo nooo, noooo N nooooooo nooo--noo noooooo nooooooo no--no noo

fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation
nooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo nooooo no nooo nooo Nooooooooooo nooooooo

in which I had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially the aspect
no noooo N noo no noooooooooo nooooooo. Noo no noo nooooooooo noo nooooo

of the three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most
no noo noooo noooo nooooooo no noo nooo, noo noooo, noooo noo nooo

forcibly calculated to allay these colourless misgivings, and induce
nooooooo nooooooooo no noooo noooo nooooooooo nooooooooo, noo nooooo

confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage. Three
nooooooooo noo nooooooooooo no noooo noooooooooo no noo nooooo. Noooo

better, more likely sea-officers and men, each in his own different way,
nooooo, nooo nooooo noo-nooooooo noo noo, nooo no noo noo noooooooo noo,

could not readily be found, and they were every one of them Americans; a
noooo noo noooooo no noooo, noo nooo nooo noooo noo no nooo Noooooooo; n

Nantucketer, a Vineyarder, a Cape man. Now, it being Christmas when the
Noooooooooo, n Nooooooooo, n Nooo noo. Noo, no noooo Noooooooo nooo noo

ship shot from out her harbor, for a space we had biting Polar weather,
nooo nooo nooo noo noo nooooo, noo n noooo no noo nooooo Noooo noooooo,

though all the time running away from it to the southward; and by every
nooooo noo noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo no no noo noooooooo; noo no noooo

degree and minute of latitude which we sailed, gradually leaving that
nooooo noo nooooo no nooooooo noooo no nooooo, noooooooo noooooo nooo

merciless winter, and all its intolerable weather behind us. It was one
noooooooo nooooo, noo noo noo noooooooooo noooooo nooooo no. No noo noo

of those less lowering, but still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the
no noooo nooo nooooooo, noo noooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo nooooooo no noo

transition, when with a fair wind the ship was rushing through the water
nooooooooo, nooo nooo n nooo nooo noo nooo noo noooooo noooooo noo noooo

with a vindictive sort of leaping and melancholy rapidity, that as I
nooo n nooooooooo nooo no noooooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo, nooo no N

mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch, so soon as I
noooooo no noo nooo no noo nooo no noo nooooooo noooo, no nooo no N

levelled my glance towards the taffrail, foreboding shivers ran over me.
nooooooo no nooooo noooooo noo nooooooo, nooooooooo noooooo noo nooo no.

Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck.
Noooooo nooooo nooooooooooo; Noooooo Nooo noooo nooo noo noooooo-nooo.




There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him, nor of the
Noooo nooooo no nooo no nooooo nooooo noooooo noooo noo, noo no noo

recovery from any. He looked like a man cut away from the stake, when
nooooooo nooo noo. No nooooo nooo n noo noo nooo nooo noo noooo, nooo

the fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them,
noo nooo noo noooooooooooo nooooo noo noo noooo noooooo noooooooo nooo,

or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness. His
no nooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo noooo noooooooo nooo nooooooooo. Noo

whole high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an
noooo nooo, noooo nooo, nooooo nooo no noooo nooooo, noo nooooo no no

unalterable mould, like Cellini's cast Perseus. Threading its way out
noooooooooo noooo, nooo Noooooo'n nooo Noooooo. Noooooooo noo noo noo

from among his grey hairs, and continuing right down one side of his
nooo noooo noo nooo noooo, noo nooooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo no noo

tawny scorched face and neck, till it disappeared in his clothing,
noooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo, nooo no noooooooooo no noo nooooooo,

you saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly whitish. It resembled that
noo noo n noooooo noo-nooo nooo, noooooo noooooo. No noooooooo nooo

perpendicular seam sometimes made in the straight, lofty trunk of
noooooooooooo nooo noooooooo nooo no noo nooooooo, noooo noooo no

a great tree, when the upper lightning tearingly darts down it, and
n noooo nooo, nooo noo noooo noooooooo noooooooo noooo nooo no, noo

without wrenching a single twig, peels and grooves out the bark from top
noooooo noooooooo n nooooo nooo, noooo noo noooooo noo noo nooo nooo noo

to bottom, ere running off into the soil, leaving the tree still greenly
no nooooo, noo noooooo noo nooo noo nooo, noooooo noo nooo noooo noooooo

alive, but branded. Whether that mark was born with him, or whether it
noooo, noo noooooo. Noooooo nooo nooo noo nooo nooo noo, no noooooo no

was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one could certainly say.
noo noo nooo nooo no nooo noooooooo noooo, no noo noooo noooooooo noo.

By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no allusion was
No nooo noooo noooooo, nooooooooo noo nooooo nooooo no no nooooooo noo

made to it, especially by the mates. But once Tashtego's senior, an old
nooo no no, nooooooooo no noo noooo. Noo nooo Nooooooo'n nooooo, no noo

Gay-Head Indian among the crew, superstitiously asserted that not till
Noo-Nooo Nooooo noooo noo nooo, noooooooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo

he was full forty years old did Ahab become that way branded, and
no noo nooo noooo noooo noo noo Nooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo, noo

then it came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but in
nooo no nooo nooo noo, noo no noo nooo no noo nooooo nooo, noo no

an elemental strife at sea. Yet, this wild hint seemed inferentially
no noooooooo nooooo no noo. Noo, nooo nooo nooo nooooo noooooooooooo

negatived, by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man,
noooooooo, no nooo n nooo Noooooo nooooooooo, no noo nooooooooo noo,

who, having never before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this
noo, nooooo noooo nooooo nooooo noo no Noooooooo, noo noooo noo nooo

laid eye upon wild Ahab. Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the
nooo noo nooo nooo Nooo. Nooooooooooo, noo noo noo-nooooooooo, noo

immemorial credulities, popularly invested this old Manxman with
nooooooooo noooooooooo, noooooooo nooooooo nooo noo Noooooo nooo

preternatural powers of discernment. So that no white sailor seriously
noooooooooooo nooooo no noooooooooo. No nooo no noooo nooooo noooooooo

contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain Ahab should
nooooooooooo noo nooo no nooo nooo no nooo Noooooo Nooo nooooo

be tranquilly laid out--which might hardly come to pass, so he
no nooooooooo nooo noo--noooo noooo nooooo nooo no nooo, no no

muttered--then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would
nooooooo--nooo, noooooo nooooo no nooo nooo nooooo noo noo nooo, noooo

find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole.
nooo n noooo-nooo no noo nooo noooo no nooo.




So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me, and the livid
No nooooooooo noo noo noooo nooo nooooo no Nooo nooooo no, noo noo noooo

brand which streaked it, that for the first few moments I hardly noted
noooo noooo nooooooo no, nooo noo noo noooo noo noooooo N nooooo noooo

that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the barbaric
nooo noo n nooooo no nooo noooooooooo nooooooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo

white leg upon which he partly stood. It had previously come to me that
noooo noo nooo noooo no nooooo noooo. No noo nooooooooo nooo no no nooo

this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished bone of
nooo noooo noo noo no noo nooo noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo no

the sperm whale's jaw. "Aye, he was dismasted off Japan," said the old
noo noooo noooo'n noo. "Noo, no noo noooooooo noo Noooo," nooo noo noo

Gay-Head Indian once; "but like his dismasted craft, he shipped another
Noo-Nooo Nooooo nooo; "noo nooo noo noooooooo noooo, no noooooo noooooo

mast without coming home for it. He has a quiver of 'em."
nooo noooooo nooooo nooo noo no. No noo n nooooo no 'no."




I was struck with the singular posture he maintained. Upon each side of
N noo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo noooooo no nooooooooo. Nooo nooo nooo no

the Pequod's quarter deck, and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds, there
noo Nooooo'n noooooo nooo, noo nooooo noooo no noo nooooo noooooo, noooo

was an auger hole, bored about half an inch or so, into the plank.
noo no noooo nooo, noooo noooo nooo no nooo no no, nooo noo noooo.

His bone leg steadied in that hole; one arm elevated, and holding by a
Noo nooo noo nooooooo no nooo nooo; noo noo nooooooo, noo noooooo no n

shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking straight out beyond the
nooooo; Noooooo Nooo noooo noooo, noooooo nooooooo noo nooooo noo

ship's ever-pitching prow. There was an infinity of firmest fortitude,
nooo'n nooo-nooooooo nooo. Noooo noo no nooooooo no noooooo noooooooo,

a determinate, unsurrenderable wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless,
n noooooooooo, noooooooooooooo nooooooooo, no noo noooo noo nooooooo,

forward dedication of that glance. Not a word he spoke; nor did his
noooooo nooooooooo no nooo nooooo. Noo n nooo no noooo; noo noo noo

officers say aught to him; though by all their minutest gestures
nooooooo noo noooo no noo; nooooo no noo noooo nooooooo nooooooo

and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not painful,
noo noooooooooo, nooo noooooo nooooo noo nooooo, no noo noooooo,

consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye. And not only that,
noooooooooooo no noooo noooo n nooooooo nooooo-noo. Noo noo nooo nooo,

but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his
noo noooo nooooooo Nooo noooo nooooo nooo nooo n noooooooooo no noo

face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe.
nooo; no noo noo nooooooo noooo noooooooooo noooooo no nooo nooooo noo.




Ere long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin.
Noo nooo, nooo noo noooo noooo no noo noo, no nooooooo nooo noo noooo.

But after that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either
Noo noooo nooo noooooo, no noo noooo noo noooooo no noo nooo; nooooo

standing in his pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or
nooooooo no noo noooo-nooo, no nooooo nooo no noooo noooo no noo; no

heavily walking the deck. As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to
noooooo noooooo noo nooo. No noo noo nooo nooo nooooo; nooooo, noooo no

grow a little genial, he became still less and less a recluse; as
nooo n nooooo nooooo, no nooooo noooo nooo noo nooo n noooooo; no

if, when the ship had sailed from home, nothing but the dead wintry
no, nooo noo nooo noo nooooo nooo nooo, noooooo noo noo nooo nooooo

bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded. And, by and by, it
noooooooo no noo noo noo nooo nooo noo no nooooooo. Noo, no noo no, no

came to pass, that he was almost continually in the air; but, as yet,
nooo no nooo, nooo no noo nooooo noooooooooo no noo noo; noo, no noo,

for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at last sunny deck,
noo noo nooo no nooo, no noooooooooo noo, no noo no nooo noooo nooo,

he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast. But the Pequod was
no nooooo no noooooooooo noooo no noooooo nooo. Noo noo Nooooo noo

only making a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all whaling
nooo nooooo n noooooo noo; noo noooooooo nooooooo; nooooo noo noooooo

preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to, so
nooooooooooo noooooo noooooooooo noo noooo nooo noooo noooooooo no, no

that there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite
nooo noooo noo nooooo no noooooo, noo no noooooo, no nooooo no nooooo

Ahab, now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that
Nooo, noo; noo nooo noooo nooo, noo nooo noo nooooooo, noo nooooo nooo

layer upon layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose the
noooo nooo noooo nooo noooo nooo noo nooo, no nooo noo nooooo nooooo noo

loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon.
nooooooo noooo no nooo nooooooooo nooo.




Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling persuasiveness of the
Nooooooooooo, noo nooo, noo nooo, nooooooo nooooooooooooo no noo

pleasant, holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually to charm him from
nooooooo, noooooo noooooo no nooo no, nooooo noooooooo no noooo noo nooo

his mood. For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls, April and May,
noo nooo. Noo, no nooo noo noo-noooooo, noooooo noooo, Noooo noo Noo,

trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest, ruggedest,
nooo nooo no noo nooooo, nooooooooooo noooo; nooo noo nooooo, noooooooo,

most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green
nooo noooooo-nooooo noo noo nooo no noooo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo

sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, in the
noooooo, no noooooo nooo nooo-noooooo noooooooo; no Nooo noo, no noo

end, a little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air. More
noo, n nooooo noooooo no noo noooooo noooooooo no nooo noooooo noo. Nooo

than once did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, which, in any
nooo nooo noo no noo noooo noo noooo noooooo no n nooo, noooo, no noo

other man, would have soon flowered out in a smile.
noooo noo, noooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo no n noooo.










CHAPTER 29. Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.
NOOOOOO no. Noooo Nooo; no Noo, Noooo.







Some days elapsed, and ice and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now
Nooo nooo noooooo, noo noo noo nooooooo noo nooooo, noo Nooooo noo

went rolling through the bright Quito spring, which, at sea, almost
nooo noooooo noooooo noo nooooo Noooo nooooo, noooo, no noo, nooooo

perpetually reigns on the threshold of the eternal August of the Tropic.
noooooooooo nooooo no noo noooooooo no noo noooooo Nooooo no noo Nooooo.

The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing, redundant days,
Noo nooooo nooo, noooo, noooooo, nooooooo, noooooooooo, noooooooo nooo,

were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet, heaped up--flaked up, with
nooo no noooooo noooooo no Noooooo noooooo, nooooo no--nooooo no, nooo

rose-water snow. The starred and stately nights seemed haughty dames in
nooo-noooo nooo. Noo noooooo noo noooooo nooooo nooooo noooooo noooo no

jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the memory of their
nooooooo noooooo, noooooo no nooo no nooooo noooo, noo nooooo no noooo

absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns! For sleeping man,
nooooo nooooooooo Noooo, noo nooooo nooooooo nooo! Noo nooooooo noo,

'twas hard to choose between such winsome days and such seducing nights.
'nooo nooo no nooooo noooooo nooo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooo.

But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not merely lend new
Noo noo noo nooooooooo no nooo nooooooo noooooo noo noo nooooo nooo noo

spells and potencies to the outward world. Inward they turned upon the
nooooo noo noooooooo no noo noooooo noooo. Nooooo nooo nooooo nooo noo

soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then, memory
nooo, nooooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo noooo no noo nooo no; nooo, nooooo

shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights.
nooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo noo nooo noooo no noooooooo noooooooo.

And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab's
Noo noo noooo nooooo nooooooo, nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo no Nooo'n

texture.
noooooo.




Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less
Noo noo no nooooo noooooo; no no, noo nooooo nooooo nooo nooo, noo nooo

man has to do with aught that looks like death. Among sea-commanders,
noo noo no no nooo noooo nooo noooo nooo noooo. Noooo noo-nooooooooo,

the old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the
noo noo nooooooooo nooo nooooooo noooo noooo nooooo no noooo noo

night-cloaked deck. It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he
noooo-noooooo nooo. No noo no nooo Nooo; nooo nooo noo, no nooo, no

seemed so much to live in the open air, that truly speaking, his visits
nooooo no nooo no nooo no noo nooo noo, nooo noooo nooooooo, noo nooooo

were more to the cabin, than from the cabin to the planks. "It feels
nooo nooo no noo noooo, nooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooooo. "No noooo

like going down into one's tomb,"--he would mutter to himself--"for an
nooo noooo nooo nooo noo'n nooo,"--no noooo nooooo no noooooo--"noo no

old captain like me to be descending this narrow scuttle, to go to my
noo noooooo nooo no no no nooooooooo nooo nooooo noooooo, no no no no

grave-dug berth."
noooo-noo noooo."




So, almost every twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were
No, nooooo noooo nooooo-nooo noooo, nooo noo noooooo no noo noooo nooo

set, and the band on deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below;
noo, noo noo nooo no nooo noooooooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo noooo;

and when if a rope was to be hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors
noo nooo no n nooo noo no no nooooo nooo noo nooooooooo, noo noooooo

flung it not rudely down, as by day, but with some cautiousness dropt
noooo no noo nooooo nooo, no no noo, noo nooo nooo nooooooooooo noooo

it to its place for fear of disturbing their slumbering shipmates; when
no no noo noooo noo nooo no nooooooooo noooo nooooooooo noooooooo; nooo

this sort of steady quietude would begin to prevail, habitually, the
nooo nooo no nooooo nooooooo noooo noooo no noooooo, nooooooooo, noo

silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and ere long the old man
nooooo noooooooo noooo noooo noo noooo-noooooo; noo noo nooo noo noo noo

would emerge, gripping at the iron banister, to help his crippled way.
noooo nooooo, nooooooo no noo nooo nooooooo, no nooo noo nooooooo noo.

Some considering touch of humanity was in him; for at times like these,
Nooo noooooooooo noooo no nooooooo noo no noo; noo no noooo nooo noooo,

he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because to his
no noooooo noooooooo nooo nooooooooo noo noooooo-nooo; noooooo no noo

wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel, such
noooooo noooo, noooooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooo no noo noooo nooo, nooo

would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step, that
noooo nooo nooo noo noooooooooooo noooo noo noo no nooo nooo nooo, nooo

their dreams would have been on the crunching teeth of sharks. But once,
noooo nooooo noooo nooo nooo no noo noooooooo noooo no nooooo. Noo nooo,

the mood was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy,
noo nooo noo no noo noo nooo noo nooooo nooooooooo; noo no nooo noooo,

lumber-like pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast,
nooooo-nooo nooo no noo noooooooo noo nooo nooo nooooooo no nooooooo,

Stubb, the old second mate, came up from below, with a certain
Noooo, noo noo nooooo nooo, nooo no nooo noooo, nooo n noooooo

unassured, deprecating humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab was
noooooooo, noooooooooo nooooooooooo, nooooo nooo no Noooooo Nooo noo

pleased to walk the planks, then, no one could say nay; but there might
noooooo no nooo noo nooooo, nooo, no noo noooo noo noo; noo noooo noooo

be some way of muffling the noise; hinting something indistinctly and
no nooo noo no nooooooo noo noooo; noooooo noooooooo nooooooooooo noo

hesitatingly about a globe of tow, and the insertion into it, of the
nooooooooooo noooo n noooo no noo, noo noo noooooooo nooo no, no noo

ivory heel. Ah! Stubb, thou didst not know Ahab then.
noooo nooo. No! Noooo, nooo noooo noo nooo Nooo nooo.




"Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb," said Ahab, "that thou wouldst wad me that
"No N n nooooo-nooo, Noooo," nooo Nooo, "nooo nooo noooooo noo no nooo

fashion? But go thy ways; I had forgot. Below to thy nightly grave;
noooooo? Noo no noo nooo; N noo nooooo. Noooo no noo noooooo noooo;

where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one at
noooo nooo no no noooo noooooo noooooo, no noo no no noo noooooo noo no

last.--Down, dog, and kennel!"
nooo.--Nooo, noo, noo nooooo!"




Starting at the unforseen concluding exclamation of the so suddenly
Nooooooo no noo noooooooo nooooooooo noooooooooo no noo no nooooooo

scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a moment; then said excitedly, "I
nooooooo noo noo, Noooo noo nooooooooo n nooooo; nooo nooo noooooooo, "N

am not used to be spoken to that way, sir; I do but less than half like
no noo nooo no no nooooo no nooo noo, noo; N no noo nooo nooo nooo nooo

it, sir."
no, noo."




"Avast! gritted Ahab between his set teeth, and violently moving away,
"Noooo! noooooo Nooo noooooo noo noo noooo, noo noooooooo nooooo nooo,

as if to avoid some passionate temptation.
no no no noooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooooo.




"No, sir; not yet," said Stubb, emboldened, "I will not tamely be called
"No, noo; noo noo," nooo Noooo, nooooooooo, "N nooo noo nooooo no nooooo

a dog, sir."
n noo, noo."




"Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and begone,
"Nooo no nooooo noo noooo n nooooo, noo n nooo, noo no noo, noo nooooo,

or I'll clear the world of thee!"
no N'no noooo noo noooo no nooo!"




As he said this, Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors in
No no nooo nooo, Nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooooooo noooooo no

his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily retreated.
noo nooooo, nooo Noooo noooooooooooo noooooooo.




"I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,"
"N noo noooo nooooo no nooooo noooooo nooooo n nooo nooo noo no,"

muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle. "It's
nooooooo Noooo, no no noooo noooooo nooooooooo noo noooo-noooooo. "No'n

very queer. Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go
nooo noooo. Nooo, Noooo; noooooo, noo, N noo'n nooo nooo noooooo no no

back and strike him, or--what's that?--down here on my knees and pray
nooo noo nooooo noo, no--nooo'n nooo?--nooo nooo no no noooo noo nooo

for him? Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the
noo noo? Noo, nooo noo noo noooooo nooooo no no no; noo no noooo no noo

first time I ever DID pray. It's queer; very queer; and he's queer too;
noooo nooo N nooo NOO nooo. No'n noooo; nooo noooo; noo no'n noooo noo;

aye, take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever
noo, nooo noo nooo noo noo, no'n noooo noo nooooooo noo noo Noooo nooo

sailed with. How he flashed at me!--his eyes like powder-pans! is he
nooooo nooo. Noo no noooooo no no!--noo nooo nooo nooooo-nooo! no no

mad? Anyway there's something on his mind, as sure as there must be
noo? Nooooo noooo'n noooooooo no noo nooo, no nooo no noooo nooo no

something on a deck when it cracks. He aint in his bed now, either, more
noooooooo no n nooo nooo no nooooo. No nooo no noo noo noo, nooooo, nooo

than three hours out of the twenty-four; and he don't sleep then. Didn't
nooo noooo noooo noo no noo nooooo-nooo; noo no noo'n noooo nooo. Nooo'n

that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds
nooo Noooo-Noo, noo noooooo, nooo no nooo no n noooooo no nooooo noooo

the old man's hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets
noo noo noo'n noooooo noooooo noo noooooo noo noooooo, noo noo nooooo

down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, and the
nooo no noo nooo, noo noo nooooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo, noo noo

pillow a sort of frightful hot, as though a baked brick had been on
nooooo n nooo no noooooooo noo, no nooooo n noooo noooo noo nooo no

it? A hot old man! I guess he's got what some folks ashore call
no? N noo noo noo! N noooo no'n noo nooo nooo noooo nooooo nooo

a conscience; it's a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say--worse nor a
n nooooooooo; no'n n nooo no Noo-Noooo-noo nooo noo--noooo noo n

toothache. Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord keep me
noooooooo. Nooo, nooo; N noo'n nooo nooo no no, noo noo Nooo nooo no

from catching it. He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into the
nooo nooooooo no. No'n nooo no noooooo; N nooooo nooo no nooo nooo noo

after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's
noooo nooo noo, noooo noooo, no Noooo-Noo noooo no no nooooooo; nooo'n

that for, I should like to know? Who's made appointments with him in
nooo noo, N nooooo nooo no nooo? Noo'n nooo nooooooooooo nooo noo no

the hold? Ain't that queer, now? But there's no telling, it's the old
noo nooo? Noo'n nooo noooo, noo? Noo noooo'n no noooooo, no'n noo noo

game--Here goes for a snooze. Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be
nooo--Nooo nooo noo n nooooo. Nooo no, no'n noooo n nooooo'n noooo no no

born into the world, if only to fall right asleep. And now that I think
nooo nooo noo noooo, no nooo no nooo noooo nooooo. Noo noo nooo N noooo

of it, that's about the first thing babies do, and that's a sort of
no no, nooo'n noooo noo noooo noooo nooooo no, noo nooo'n n nooo no

queer, too. Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of 'em. But
noooo, noo. Nooo no, noo noo nooooo noo noooo, nooo no noooo no 'no. Noo

that's against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and
nooo'n noooooo no nooooooooo. Noooo noo, no no nooooooo noooooooooo; noo

sleep when you can, is my twelfth--So here goes again. But how's that?
noooo nooo noo noo, no no noooooo--No nooo nooo noooo. Noo noo'n nooo?

didn't he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten times a donkey, and
nooo'n no nooo no n noo? nooooo! no nooooo no noo noooo n nooooo, noo

piled a lot of jackasses on top of THAT! He might as well have kicked
noooo n noo no noooooooo no noo no NOOO! No noooo no nooo nooo nooooo

me, and done with it. Maybe he DID kick me, and I didn't observe it,
no, noo nooo nooo no. Noooo no NOO nooo no, noo N nooo'n noooooo no,

I was so taken all aback with his brow, somehow. It flashed like a
N noo no noooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo, noooooo. No noooooo nooo n

bleached bone. What the devil's the matter with me? I don't stand right
nooooooo nooo. Nooo noo noooo'n noo nooooo nooo no? N noo'n noooo noooo

on my legs. Coming afoul of that old man has a sort of turned me wrong
no no nooo. Nooooo noooo no nooo noo noo noo n nooo no nooooo no noooo

side out. By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though--How? how?
nooo noo. No noo Nooo, N nooo nooo nooo nooooooo, nooooo--Noo? noo?

how?--but the only way's to stash it; so here goes to hammock again;
noo?--noo noo nooo noo'n no noooo no; no nooo nooo no noooooo noooo;

and in the morning, I'll see how this plaguey juggling thinks over by
noo no noo noooooo, N'no noo noo nooo noooooo nooooooo nooooo nooo no

daylight."
nooooooo."










CHAPTER 30. The Pipe.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooo.







When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a while leaning over the
Nooo Noooo noo nooooooo, Nooo noooo noo n noooo noooooo nooo noo

bulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him of late, calling a sailor
nooooooo; noo nooo, no noo nooo noooo nooo noo no nooo, noooooo n nooooo

of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool, and also his pipe.
no noo noooo, no nooo noo noooo noo noo noooo noooo, noo nooo noo nooo.

Lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the stool on the
Nooooooo noo nooo no noo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo noo noooo no noo

weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked.
noooooo nooo no noo nooo, no noo noo nooooo.




In old Norse times, the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were
No noo Noooo noooo, noo noooooo no noo noo-nooooo Nooooo noooo nooo

fabricated, saith tradition, of the tusks of the narwhale. How could one
nooooooooo, noooo noooooooo, no noo noooo no noo nooooooo. Noo noooo noo

look at Ahab then, seated on that tripod of bones, without bethinking
nooo no Nooo nooo, nooooo no nooo nooooo no noooo, noooooo nooooooooo

him of the royalty it symbolized? For a Khan of the plank, and a king of
noo no noo noooooo no nooooooooo? Noo n Nooo no noo noooo, noo n nooo no

the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab.
noo noo, noo n noooo nooo no Nooooooooo noo Nooo.




Some moments passed, during which the thick vapour came from his mouth
Nooo noooooo nooooo, nooooo noooo noo noooo nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo

in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face. "How
no noooo noo nooooooo noooo, noooo nooo nooo noooo nooo noo nooo. "Noo

now," he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, "this smoking no
noo," no nooooooooooo no nooo, noooooooooo noo nooo, "nooo noooooo no

longer soothes. Oh, my pipe! hard must it go with me if thy charm be
nooooo noooooo. No, no nooo! nooo nooo no no nooo no no noo noooo no

gone! Here have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring--aye, and
nooo! Nooo nooo N nooo noooooooooooo noooooo, noo nooooooooo--noo, noo

ignorantly smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with
nooooooooo noooooo no nooooooo noo noo noooo; no nooooooo, noo nooo

such nervous whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the
nooo noooooo nooooo, no no, nooo noo noooo noooo, no noooo nooo nooo noo

strongest and fullest of trouble. What business have I with this pipe?
noooooooo noo noooooo no noooooo. Nooo nooooooo nooo N nooo nooo nooo?

This thing that is meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapours
Nooo noooo nooo no noooo noo nooooooooo, no nooo no nooo noooo noooooo

among mild white hairs, not among torn iron-grey locks like mine. I'll
noooo nooo noooo noooo, noo noooo nooo nooo-nooo noooo nooo nooo. N'no

smoke no more--"
noooo no nooo--"




He tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea. The fire hissed in the
No nooooo noo noooo noooooo nooo nooo noo noo. Noo nooo nooooo no noo

waves; the same instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe
noooo; noo nooo noooooo noo nooo nooo no noo nooooo noo noooooo nooo

made. With slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
nooo. Nooo nooooooo noo, Nooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooooo.










CHAPTER 31. Queen Mab.
NOOOOOO no. Noooo Noo.







Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.
Nooo noooooo Noooo nooooooo Noooo.




"Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You know the old man's
"Nooo n noooo noooo, Nooo-Nooo, N noooo noo. Noo nooo noo noo noo'n

ivory leg, well I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick
noooo noo, nooo N noooooo no nooooo no nooo no; noo nooo N noooo no nooo

back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off! And then,
nooo, nooo no nooo, no nooooo noo, N nooooo no noo noooo noo! Noo nooo,

presto! Ahab seemed a pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking
nooooo! Nooo nooooo n noooooo, noo N, nooo n noooooo nooo, nooo noooooo

at it. But what was still more curious, Flask--you know how curious all
no no. Noo nooo noo noooo nooo noooooo, Noooo--noo nooo noo noooooo noo

dreams are--through all this rage that I was in, I somehow seemed to be
nooooo noo--noooooo noo nooo nooo nooo N noo no, N noooooo nooooo no no

thinking to myself, that after all, it was not much of an insult, that
nooooooo no nooooo, nooo noooo noo, no noo noo nooo no no nooooo, nooo

kick from Ahab. 'Why,' thinks I, 'what's the row? It's not a real leg,
nooo nooo Nooo. 'Noo,' nooooo N, 'nooo'n noo noo? No'n noo n nooo noo,

only a false leg.' And there's a mighty difference between a living
nooo n noooo noo.' Noo noooo'n n nooooo nooooooooo noooooo n nooooo

thump and a dead thump. That's what makes a blow from the hand, Flask,
noooo noo n nooo noooo. Nooo'n nooo noooo n nooo nooo noo nooo, Noooo,

fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane. The living
noooo noooo nooo nooooo no nooo nooo n nooo nooo n nooo. Noo nooooo

member--that makes the living insult, my little man. And thinks I to
nooooo--nooo noooo noo nooooo nooooo, no nooooo noo. Noo nooooo N no

myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against
nooooo noo noo noooo, nooo, noooo N noo nooooooo no noooo nooo noooooo

that cursed pyramid--so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all
nooo nooooo noooooo--no nooooooooooo noooooooooooo noo no noo, noo

the while, I say, I was thinking to myself, 'what's his leg now, but
noo noooo, N noo, N noo nooooooo no nooooo, 'nooo'n noo noo noo, noo

a cane--a whalebone cane. Yes,' thinks I, 'it was only a playful
n nooo--n noooooooo nooo. Noo,' nooooo N, 'no noo nooo n noooooo

cudgelling--in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me--not a base
nooooooooo--no nooo, nooo n noooooooooo nooo no nooo no--noo n nooo

kick. Besides,' thinks I, 'look at it once; why, the end of it--the foot
nooo. Noooooo,' nooooo N, 'nooo no no nooo; noo, noo noo no no--noo nooo

part--what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footed farmer
nooo--nooo n noooo nooo no noo no no; noooooo, no n noooo nooooo nooooo

kicked me, THERE'S a devilish broad insult. But this insult is whittled
nooooo no, NOOOO'N n nooooooo noooo nooooo. Noo nooo nooooo no nooooooo

down to a point only.' But now comes the greatest joke of the
nooo no n noooo nooo.' Noo noo noooo noo nooooooo nooo no noo

dream, Flask. While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of
noooo, Noooo. Noooo N noo noooooooo nooo no noo noooooo, n nooo no

badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the
nooooo-nooooo noo nooooo, nooo n nooo no noo nooo, noooo no no noo

shoulders, and slews me round. 'What are you 'bout?' says he. Slid! man,
noooooooo, noo noooo no noooo. 'Nooo noo noo 'nooo?' nooo no. Nooo! noo,

but I was frightened. Such a phiz! But, somehow, next moment I was over
noo N noo nooooooooo. Nooo n nooo! Noo, noooooo, nooo nooooo N noo nooo

the fright. 'What am I about?' says I at last. 'And what business is
noo nooooo. 'Nooo no N noooo?' nooo N no nooo. 'Noo nooo nooooooo no

that of yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback? Do YOU want a kick?'
nooo no noooo, N nooooo nooo no nooo, No. Nooooooo? No NOO nooo n nooo?'

By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round his
No noo nooo, Noooo, N noo no nooooo nooo nooo, nooo no nooooo noooo noo

stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a
noooo no no, nooo nooo, noo nooooooo no n noo no noooooo no noo noo n

clout--what do you think, I saw?--why thunder alive, man, his stern
noooo--nooo no noo noooo, N noo?--noo noooooo noooo, noo, noo noooo

was stuck full of marlinspikes, with the points out. Says I, on second
noo noooo nooo no nooooooooooo, nooo noo nooooo noo. Nooo N, no nooooo

thoughts, 'I guess I won't kick you, old fellow.' 'Wise Stubb,' said he,
nooooooo, 'N noooo N noo'n nooo noo, noo nooooo.' 'Nooo Noooo,' nooo no,

'wise Stubb;' and kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of
'nooo Noooo;' noo nooo noooooooo no noo noo nooo, n nooo no nooooo no

his own gums like a chimney hag. Seeing he wasn't going to stop saying
noo noo nooo nooo n noooooo noo. Nooooo no nooo'n noooo no nooo nooooo

over his 'wise Stubb, wise Stubb,' I thought I might as well fall to
nooo noo 'nooo Noooo, nooo Noooo,' N noooooo N noooo no nooo nooo no

kicking the pyramid again. But I had only just lifted my foot for it,
noooooo noo noooooo noooo. Noo N noo nooo nooo nooooo no nooo noo no,

when he roared out, 'Stop that kicking!' 'Halloa,' says I, 'what's
nooo no nooooo noo, 'Nooo nooo noooooo!' 'Nooooo,' nooo N, 'nooo'n

the matter now, old fellow?' 'Look ye here,' says he; 'let's argue
noo nooooo noo, noo nooooo?' 'Nooo no nooo,' nooo no; 'noo'n noooo

the insult. Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?' 'Yes, he did,' says
noo nooooo. Noooooo Nooo nooooo no, nooo'n no?' 'Noo, no noo,' nooo

I--'right HERE it was.' 'Very good,' says he--'he used his ivory leg,
N--'noooo NOOO no noo.' 'Nooo nooo,' nooo no--'no nooo noo noooo noo,

didn't he?' 'Yes, he did,' says I. 'Well then,' says he, 'wise Stubb,
nooo'n no?' 'Noo, no noo,' nooo N. 'Nooo nooo,' nooo no, 'nooo Noooo,

what have you to complain of? Didn't he kick with right good will? it
nooo nooo noo no nooooooo no? Nooo'n no nooo nooo noooo nooo nooo? no

wasn't a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it? No, you were
nooo'n n nooooo noooo nooo noo no nooooo nooo, noo no? No, noo nooo

kicked by a great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb. It's an
nooooo no n noooo noo, noo nooo n noooooooo noooo noo, Noooo. No'n no

honour; I consider it an honour. Listen, wise Stubb. In old England the
nooooo; N nooooooo no no nooooo. Nooooo, nooo Noooo. No noo Noooooo noo

greatest lords think it great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made
nooooooo noooo noooo no noooo noooo no no noooooo no n noooo, noo nooo

garter-knights of; but, be YOUR boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by
nooooo-noooooo no; noo, no NOOO noooo, Noooo, nooo no nooo nooooo no

old Ahab, and made a wise man of. Remember what I say; BE kicked by him;
noo Nooo, noo nooo n nooo noo no. Nooooooo nooo N noo; NO nooooo no noo;

account his kicks honours; and on no account kick back; for you can't
noooooo noo noooo noooooo; noo no no noooooo nooo nooo; noo noo noo'n

help yourself, wise Stubb. Don't you see that pyramid?' With that, he
nooo nooooooo, nooo Noooo. Noo'n noo noo nooo noooooo?' Nooo nooo, no

all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer fashion, to swim off into
noo no n nooooo nooooo noooooo, no nooo noooo noooooo, no nooo noo nooo

the air. I snored; rolled over; and there I was in my hammock! Now, what
noo noo. N nooooo; nooooo nooo; noo noooo N noo no no noooooo! Noo, nooo

do you think of that dream, Flask?"
no noo noooo no nooo noooo, Noooo?"




"I don't know; it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho.'"
"N noo'n nooo; no noooo n nooo no noooooo no no, noo.'"




"May be; may be. But it's made a wise man of me, Flask. D'ye see Ahab
"Noo no; noo no. Noo no'n nooo n nooo noo no no, Noooo. N'no noo Nooo

standing there, sideways looking over the stern? Well, the best thing
nooooooo noooo, nooooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo? Nooo, noo nooo noooo

you can do, Flask, is to let the old man alone; never speak to him,
noo noo no, Noooo, no no noo noo noo noo noooo; noooo noooo no noo,

whatever he says. Halloa! What's that he shouts? Hark!"
nooooooo no nooo. Nooooo! Nooo'n nooo no nooooo? Nooo!"




"Mast-head, there! Look sharp, all of ye! There are whales hereabouts!
"Nooo-nooo, noooo! Nooo noooo, noo no no! Noooo noo nooooo nooooooooo!




"If ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!
"No no noo n noooo noo, noooo nooo noooo noo noo!




"What do you think of that now, Flask? ain't there a small drop of
"Nooo no noo noooo no nooo noo, Noooo? noo'n noooo n noooo nooo no

something queer about that, eh? A white whale--did ye mark that, man?
noooooooo noooo noooo nooo, no? N noooo noooo--noo no nooo nooo, noo?

Look ye--there's something special in the wind. Stand by for it, Flask.
Nooo no--noooo'n noooooooo noooooo no noo nooo. Noooo no noo no, Noooo.

Ahab has that that's bloody on his mind. But, mum; he comes this way."
Nooo noo nooo nooo'n nooooo no noo nooo. Noo, noo; no noooo nooo noo."










CHAPTER 32. Cetology.
NOOOOOO no. Nooooooo.







Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost
Noooooo no noo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo; noo nooo no noooo no nooo

in its unshored, harbourless immensities. Ere that come to pass; ere the
no noo nooooooo, noooooooooo noooooooooo. Noo nooo nooo no nooo; noo noo

Pequod's weedy hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls of the
Nooooo'n noooo nooo noooo nooo no nooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo no noo

leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter almost
noooooooo; no noo nooooo no no noo nooo no nooooo no n nooooo nooooo

indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the more
noooooooooooo no n nooooooo nooooooooooo noooooooooooo no noo nooo

special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which are to
noooooo noooooooooo noooooooooo noo noooooooo no noo noooo noooo noo no

follow.
nooooo.




It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
No no nooo nooooooooooo nooooooooo no noo noooo no noo noooo nooooo,

that I would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. The
nooo N noooo noo nooo noo nooooo noo. Noo no no no nooo nooo. Noo

classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here
nooooooooooooo no noo nooooooooooo no n noooo, noooooo nooo no nooo

essayed. Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.
noooooo. Nooooo no nooo noo nooo noo nooooo noooooooooo nooo nooo nooo.




"No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled
"No nooooo no Noooooo no no nooo nooooooo no nooo noooo no nooooooo

Cetology," says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820.
Nooooooo," nooo Noooooo Nooooooo, N.N. nooo.




"It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into the
"No no noo no noooooooo, nooo no no no noooo, no noooo nooo noo

inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and
noooooo no no noo nooo nooooo no nooooooo noo noooooo nooo nooooo noo

families.... Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal"
nooooooo.... Noooo noooooooo nooooo noooo noo nooooooooo no nooo nooooo"

(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.D. 1839.
(noooo noooo), nooo Noooooo Noooo, N.N. nooo.




"Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters."
"Noooooooo no nooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooooooooo nooooo."

"Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of the cetacea." "A field
"Nooooooooooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooooo no noo noooooo." "N noooo

strewn with thorns." "All these incomplete indications but serve to
nooooo nooo nooooo." "Noo noooo nooooooooo noooooooooo noo noooo no

torture us naturalists."
noooooo no noooooooooo."




Thus speak of the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson,
Nooo noooo no noo noooo, noo noooo Nooooo, noo Nooo Nooooo, noo Nooooo,

those lights of zoology and anatomy. Nevertheless, though of real
noooo nooooo no noooooo noo noooooo. Nooooooooooo, nooooo no nooo

knowledge there be little, yet of books there are a plenty; and so in
noooooooo noooo no nooooo, noo no noooo noooo noo n nooooo; noo no no

some small degree, with cetology, or the science of whales. Many are
nooo noooo nooooo, nooo nooooooo, no noo noooooo no nooooo. Nooo noo

the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen, who have at
noo noo, noooo noo noooo, noo noo noo, nooooooo noo nooooo, noo nooo no

large or in little, written of the whale. Run over a few:--The Authors
noooo no no nooooo, noooooo no noo noooo. Noo nooo n noo:--Noo Noooooo

of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne; Gesner;
no noo Noooo; Noooooooo; Noooo; Nooooooooo; Noo Nooooo Nooooo; Nooooo;

Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald; Brisson;
Noo; Nooooooo; Noooooooooo; Nooooooooo; Noooo; Nooooo; Noooooo; Noooooo;

Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick Cuvier;
Nooooo; Nooooooo; Nooooooooo; Noooooooo; Noooo Nooooo; Noooooooo Nooooo;

John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the
Nooo Nooooo; Nooo; Nooooooo; Noooo; Noooooo; N. Nooo Nooooo; noo

Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev. T. Cheever. But to what
Nooooo no Nooooo Nooooo; Nooooooo; noo noo Noo. N. Noooooo. Noo no nooo

ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited
nooooooo nooooooooooo noooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo, noo noooo noooo

extracts will show.
nooooooo nooo nooo.




Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following Owen
No noo noooo no nooo nooo no noooo noooooo, nooo noooo noooooooo Nooo

ever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional
nooo noo nooooo nooooo; noo noo noo no nooo noo n nooo nooooooooooo

harpooneer and whaleman. I mean Captain Scoresby. On the separate
nooooooooo noo nooooooo. N nooo Noooooo Nooooooo. No noo nooooooo

subject of the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing
noooooo no noo Noooooooo no noooo-noooo, no no noo nooo nooooooo

authority. But Scoresby knew nothing and says nothing of the great
noooooooo. Noo Nooooooo nooo noooooo noo nooo noooooo no noo noooo

sperm whale, compared with which the Greenland whale is almost unworthy
noooo noooo, nooooooo nooo noooo noo Noooooooo noooo no nooooo nooooooo

mentioning. And here be it said, that the Greenland whale is an usurper
nooooooooo. Noo nooo no no nooo, nooo noo Noooooooo noooo no no noooooo

upon the throne of the seas. He is not even by any means the largest
nooo noo nooooo no noo nooo. No no noo nooo no noo noooo noo noooooo

of the whales. Yet, owing to the long priority of his claims, and the
no noo nooooo. Noo, noooo no noo nooo nooooooo no noo nooooo, noo noo

profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back, invested the
nooooooo noooooooo noooo, nooo nooo noooooo noooo nooo, nooooooo noo

then fabulous or utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which ignorance to
nooo nooooooo no noooooo noooooo noooo-noooo, noo noooo noooooooo no

this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific retreats
nooo noooooo noo noooo nooooo no noo noo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo

and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete. Reference
noo noooo-noooo; nooo nooooooooo noo nooo noooo noo nooooooo. Noooooooo

to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past days,
no nooooo noo noo noooooooooo noooooooo no noo noooo noooo no nooo nooo,

will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to
nooo noooooo noo nooo noo Noooooooo noooo, noooooo noo noooo, noo no

them the monarch of the seas. But the time has at last come for a new
nooo noo noooooo no noo nooo. Noo noo nooo noo no nooo nooo noo n noo

proclamation. This is Charing Cross; hear ye! good people all,--the
nooooooooooo. Nooo no Noooooo Noooo; nooo no! nooo nooooo noo,--noo

Greenland whale is deposed,--the great sperm whale now reigneth!
Noooooooo noooo no noooooo,--noo noooo noooo noooo noo nooooooo!




There are only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living
Noooo noo nooo noo noooo no noooo noooo no noo noooooo no noo noo nooooo

sperm whale before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree
noooo noooo nooooo noo, noo no noo nooo nooo, no noo nooooooo nooooo

succeed in the attempt. Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in
noooooo no noo noooooo. Noooo noooo noo Noooo'n noo Noooooo'n; nooo no

their time surgeons to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and
noooo nooo nooooooo no Noooooo Noooo-Noo noooo-noooo, noo nooo noooo noo

reliable men. The original matter touching the sperm whale to be found
nooooooo noo. Noo nooooooo nooooo nooooooo noo noooo noooo no no noooo

in their volumes is necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of
no noooo noooooo no noooooooooo noooo; noo no noo no no nooo, no no no

excellent quality, though mostly confined to scientific description. As
noooooooo noooooo, nooooo nooooo nooooooo no nooooooooo noooooooooo. No

yet, however, the sperm whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete
noo, noooooo, noo noooo noooo, nooooooooo no nooooo, noooo noo nooooooo

in any literature. Far above all other hunted whales, his is an
no noo nooooooooo. Noo noooo noo noooo nooooo nooooo, noo no no

unwritten life.
noooooooo nooo.




Now the various species of whales need some sort of popular
Noo noo noooooo noooooo no nooooo nooo nooo nooo no noooooo

comprehensive classification, if only an easy outline one for the
noooooooooooo nooooooooooooo, no nooo no nooo noooooo noo noo noo

present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by subsequent
noooooo, noooooooo no no nooooo no noo noo noooooooooo no nooooooooo

laborers. As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, I
nooooooo. No no nooooo noo nooooooo no nooo nooo nooooo no nooo, N

hereupon offer my own poor endeavors. I promise nothing complete;
nooooooo noooo no noo nooo noooooooo. N noooooo noooooo nooooooo;

because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very
noooooo noo noooo noooo nooooooo no no nooooooo, nooo noo nooo nooo

reason infallibly be faulty. I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical
nooooo nooooooooo no nooooo. N noooo noo noooooo no n nooooo nooooooooo

description of the various species, or--in this place at least--to much
noooooooooo no noo noooooo noooooo, no--no nooo noooo no noooo--no nooo

of any description. My object here is simply to project the draught of a
no noo noooooooooo. No nooooo nooo no nooooo no noooooo noo noooooo no n

systematization of cetology. I am the architect, not the builder.
noooooooooooooo no nooooooo. N no noo noooooooo, noo noo noooooo.




But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in the Post-Office
Noo no no n noooooooo nooo; no nooooooo nooooo-nooooo no noo Nooo-Nooooo

is equal to it. To grope down into the bottom of the sea after them;
no noooo no no. No noooo nooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noo noooo nooo;

to have one's hands among the unspeakable foundations, ribs, and very
no nooo noo'n noooo noooo noo noooooooooo noooooooooo, nooo, noo nooo

pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing. What am I that I should
nooooo no noo noooo; nooo no n noooooo noooo. Nooo no N nooo N nooooo

essay to hook the nose of this leviathan! The awful tauntings in Job
noooo no nooo noo nooo no nooo noooooooo! Noo noooo noooooooo no Noo

might well appal me. Will he the (leviathan) make a covenant with thee?
noooo nooo noooo no. Nooo no noo (noooooooo) nooo n nooooooo nooo nooo?

Behold the hope of him is vain! But I have swam through libraries and
Nooooo noo nooo no noo no nooo! Noo N nooo nooo noooooo noooooooo noo

sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these visible
nooooo noooooo nooooo; N nooo noo no no nooo nooooo nooo noooo noooooo

hands; I am in earnest; and I will try. There are some preliminaries to
noooo; N no no noooooo; noo N nooo noo. Noooo noo nooo noooooooooooo no

settle.
nooooo.




First: The uncertain, unsettled condition of this science of Cetology
Noooo: Noo noooooooo, noooooooo noooooooo no nooo noooooo no Nooooooo

is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in some quarters it
no no noo nooo noooooooo nooooooo no noo nooo, nooo no nooo nooooooo no

still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish. In his System of
noooo noooooo n nooo noooo noooooo n noooo no n nooo. No noo Nooooo no

Nature, A.D. 1776, Linnaeus declares, "I hereby separate the whales from
Nooooo, N.N. nooo, Nooooooo nooooooo, "N nooooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo

the fish." But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year 1850,
noo nooo." Noo no no noo noooooooo, N nooo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooo,

sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnaeus's express edict,
nooooo noo nooo, nooooooo noo noooooo, noooooo Nooooooo'n noooooo noooo,

were still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the
nooo noooo noooo nooooooo noo nooooooooo no noo nooo nooo nooo noo

Leviathan.
Noooooooo.




The grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished the whales from
Noo noooooo nooo noooo Nooooooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo

the waters, he states as follows: "On account of their warm bilocular
noo nooooo, no nooooo no noooooo: "No noooooo no noooo nooo noooooooo

heart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem
noooo, noooo noooo, noooo noooooo noooooo, noooo nooooo nooo, noooo

intrantem feminam mammis lactantem," and finally, "ex lege naturae jure
noooooooo noooooo nooooo noooooooo," noo noooooo, "no nooo noooooo nooo

meritoque." I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley
noooooooo." N noooooooo noo nooo no no noooooo Nooooo Noooo noo Noooooo

Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and
Nooooo, no Noooooooo, nooo noooooooo no nooo no n noooooo nooooo, noo

they united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether
nooo nooooo no noo noooooo nooo noo noooooo noo noooo nooo nooooooooo

insufficient. Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.
nooooooooooo. Noooooo noooooooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooo.




Be it known that, waiving all argument, I take the good old fashioned
No no noooo nooo, noooooo noo nooooooo, N nooo noo nooo noo noooooooo

ground that the whale is a fish, and call upon holy Jonah to back me.
nooooo nooo noo noooo no n nooo, noo nooo nooo nooo Noooo no nooo no.

This fundamental thing settled, the next point is, in what internal
Nooo noooooooooo noooo noooooo, noo nooo noooo no, no nooo nooooooo

respect does the whale differ from other fish. Above, Linnaeus has given
noooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo noooo nooo. Noooo, Nooooooo noo noooo

you those items. But in brief, they are these: lungs and warm blood;
noo noooo noooo. Noo no noooo, nooo noo noooo: noooo noo nooo noooo;

whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
noooooo, noo noooo nooo noo nooooooo noo nooo noooooo.




Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as
Nooo: noo noooo no nooooo noo noooo, no noo noooooo noooooooo, no no

conspicuously to label him for all time to come? To be short, then, a
noooooooooooo no noooo noo noo noo nooo no nooo? No no noooo, nooo, n

whale is A SPOUTING FISH WITH A HORIZONTAL TAIL. There you have
noooo no N NOOOOOOO NOOO NOOO N NOOOOOOOOO NOOO. Noooo noo nooo

him. However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded
noo. Noooooo nooooooooo, nooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo no nooooooo

meditation. A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a
nooooooooo. N nooooo nooooo nooo nooo n noooo, noo noo nooooo no noo n

fish, because he is amphibious. But the last term of the definition is
nooo, noooooo no no nooooooooo. Noo noo nooo nooo no noo nooooooooo no

still more cogent, as coupled with the first. Almost any one must have
noooo nooo nooooo, no noooooo nooo noo noooo. Nooooo noo noo nooo nooo

noticed that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a
noooooo nooo noo noo nooo nooooooo no nooooooo nooo noo n nooo, noo n

vertical, or up-and-down tail. Whereas, among spouting fish the tail,
nooooooo, no no-noo-nooo nooo. Noooooo, noooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo,

though it may be similarly shaped, invariably assumes a horizontal
nooooo no noo no noooooooo nooooo, nooooooooo noooooo n nooooooooo

position.
nooooooo.




By the above definition of what a whale is, I do by no means exclude
No noo noooo nooooooooo no nooo n noooo no, N no no no noooo noooooo

from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea creature hitherto identified
nooo noo noooooooooo noooooooooo noo noo nooooooo nooooooo nooooooooo

with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers; nor, on the other
nooo noo noooo no noo nooo nooooooo Nooooooooooo; noo, no noo noooo

hand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively regarded as alien.*
nooo, nooo nooo no noo nooo nooooooo noooooooooooooo nooooooo no noooo.*

Hence, all the smaller, spouting, and horizontal tailed fish must be
Noooo, noo noo noooooo, nooooooo, noo nooooooooo nooooo nooo nooo no

included in this ground-plan of Cetology. Now, then, come the grand
nooooooo no nooo nooooo-nooo no Nooooooo. Noo, nooo, nooo noo noooo

divisions of the entire whale host.
noooooooo no noo nooooo noooo nooo.







*I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
*N no noooo nooo nooo no noo noooooo nooo, noo nooo nooooo Nooooooo noo

Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are included
Noooooo (Noo-nooo noo Noo-nooo no noo Noooooo no Noooooooo) noo nooooooo

by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fish are a noisy,
no nooo noooooooooo noooo noo nooooo. Noo no noooo noo-nooo noo n noooo,

contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and feeding on
nooooooooooo noo, nooooo noooooo no noo nooooo no nooooo, noo noooooo no

wet hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their credentials
noo noo, noo nooooooooo no nooo no noo noooo, N nooo noooo noooooooooo

as whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the
no nooooo; noo nooo noooooooo nooo nooo noooo noooooooo no nooo noo

Kingdom of Cetology.
Noooooo no Nooooooo.







First: According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary
Noooo: Noooooooo no noooooooo N nooooo noo nooooo nooo noooo noooooo

BOOKS (subdivisible into CHAPTERS), and these shall comprehend them all,
NOOOO (nooooooooooo nooo NOOOOOOO), noo noooo noooo nooooooooo nooo noo,

both small and large.
nooo noooo noo noooo.




I. THE FOLIO WHALE; II. the OCTAVO WHALE; III. the DUODECIMO WHALE.
N. NOO NOOOO NOOOO; NO. noo NOOOOO NOOOO; NOO. noo NOOOOOOOO NOOOO.




As the type of the FOLIO I present the SPERM WHALE; of the OCTAVO, the
No noo nooo no noo NOOOO N noooooo noo NOOOO NOOOO; no noo NOOOOO, noo

GRAMPUS; of the DUODECIMO, the PORPOISE.
NOOOOOO; no noo NOOOOOOOO, noo NOOOOOOO.




FOLIOS. Among these I here include the following chapters:--I. The SPERM
NOOOOO. Noooo noooo N nooo noooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo:--N. Noo NOOOO

WHALE; II. the RIGHT WHALE; III. the FIN-BACK WHALE; IV. the HUMP-BACKED
NOOOO; NO. noo NOOOO NOOOO; NOO. noo NOO-NOOO NOOOO; NO. noo NOOO-NOOOOO

WHALE; V. the RAZOR-BACK WHALE; VI. the SULPHUR-BOTTOM WHALE.
NOOOO; N. noo NOOOO-NOOO NOOOO; NO. noo NOOOOOO-NOOOOO NOOOO.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER I. (SPERM WHALE).--This whale, among the
NOOO N. (NOOOO), NOOOOOO N. (NOOOO NOOOO).--Nooo noooo, noooo noo

English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter
Noooooo no noo noooooo noooo no noo Nooooo noooo, noo noo Nooooooo

whale, and the Anvil Headed whale, is the present Cachalot of the
noooo, noo noo Noooo Nooooo noooo, no noo noooooo Nooooooo no noo

French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the
Nooooo, noo noo Noooooooo no noo Noooooo, noo noo Noooooooooooo no noo

Long Words. He is, without doubt, the largest inhabitant of the globe;
Nooo Noooo. No no, noooooo noooo, noo noooooo nooooooooo no noo noooo;

the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the most majestic in
noo nooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo no noooooooo; noo nooo nooooooo no

aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce; he being
nooooo; noo nooooo, no noo noo nooo nooooooo no nooooooo; no noooo

the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
noo nooo nooooooo nooo noooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo, nooooooooo, no

obtained. All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged
nooooooo. Noo noo noooooooooooo nooo, no nooo noooo nooooo, no nooooooo

upon. It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do. Philologically
nooo. No no noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo N noo nooo no no. Nooooooooooooo

considered, it is absurd. Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was
nooooooooo, no no nooooo. Nooo noooooooo noo, nooo noo Noooo noooo noo

almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil
nooooo nooooo noooooo no noo noo nooooo noooooooooooo, noo nooo noo noo

was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days
noo nooo nooooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo; no noooo nooo

spermaceti, it would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a
nooooooooo, no noooo nooo, noo noooooooo nooooooo no no noooooo nooo n

creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland
nooooooo noooooooo nooo noo noo nooo noooo no Noooooo no noo Noooooooo

or Right Whale. It was the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that
no Noooo Noooo. No noo noo nooo nooo, nooo nooo nooo nooooooooo noo nooo

quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of
nooooooooo noooo no noo Noooooooo Noooo noooo noo noooo nooooooo no

the word literally expresses. In those times, also, spermaceti was
noo nooo noooooooo noooooooo. No noooo noooo, nooo, nooooooooo noo

exceedingly scarce, not being used for light, but only as an ointment
noooooooooo nooooo, noo noooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo no no nooooooo

and medicament. It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays
noo nooooooooo. No noo nooo no no noo nooo noo noooooooo no noo nooooooo

buy an ounce of rhubarb. When, as I opine, in the course of time, the
noo no noooo no noooooo. Nooo, no N noooo, no noo nooooo no nooo, noo

true nature of spermaceti became known, its original name was still
nooo nooooo no nooooooooo nooooo noooo, noo nooooooo nooo noo noooo

retained by the dealers; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so
nooooooo no noo noooooo; no noooo no noooooo noo noooo no n nooooo no

strangely significant of its scarcity. And so the appellation must at
noooooooo noooooooooo no noo nooooooo. Noo no noo noooooooooo nooo no

last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti
nooo nooo nooo no no nooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo noooo nooo nooooooooo

was really derived.
noo nooooo noooooo.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER II. (RIGHT WHALE).--In one respect this is the
NOOO N. (NOOOO), NOOOOOO NO. (NOOOO NOOOO).--No noo noooooo nooo no noo

most venerable of the leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted
nooo noooooooo no noo nooooooooo, noooo noo noo noooo noooooooo nooooo

by man. It yields the article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and
no noo. No nooooo noo noooooo nooooooo noooo no noooooooo no nooooo; noo

the oil specially known as "whale oil," an inferior article in commerce.
noo noo noooooooo noooo no "noooo noo," no nooooooo noooooo no nooooooo.

Among the fishermen, he is indiscriminately designated by all the
Noooo noo noooooooo, no no nooooooooooooooo nooooooooo no noo noo

following titles: The Whale; the Greenland Whale; the Black Whale;
noooooooo nooooo: Noo Noooo; noo Noooooooo Noooo; noo Noooo Noooo;

the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right Whale. There is a deal of
noo Noooo Noooo; noo Nooo Noooo; noo Noooo Noooo. Noooo no n nooo no

obscurity concerning the identity of the species thus multitudinously
noooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooooo nooo noooooooooooooo

baptised. What then is the whale, which I include in the second species
nooooooo. Nooo nooo no noo noooo, noooo N noooooo no noo nooooo noooooo

of my Folios? It is the Great Mysticetus of the English naturalists; the
no no Nooooo? No no noo Noooo Nooooooooo no noo Noooooo noooooooooo; noo

Greenland Whale of the English whalemen; the Baliene Ordinaire of the
Noooooooo Noooo no noo Noooooo nooooooo; noo Noooooo Noooooooo no noo

French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes. It is the whale
Nooooo nooooooo; noo Noooooooo Noooooo no noo Nooooo. No no noo noooo

which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch and
noooo noo nooo nooo noo noooooooo nooo noo nooo nooooo no noo Noooo noo

English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen
Noooooo no noo Nooooo nooo; no no noo noooo noooo noo Nooooooo noooooooo

have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor'
nooo nooo noooooo no noo Nooooo noooo, no noo Nooooo Noooo, no noo Noo'

West Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them
Nooo Noooo, noo noooooo noooo noooo no noo noooo, nooooooooo no nooo

Right Whale Cruising Grounds.
Noooo Noooo Nooooooo Noooooo.




Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland whale of the
Nooo noooooo no noo n nooooooooo noooooo noo Noooooooo noooo no noo

English and the right whale of the Americans. But they precisely agree
Noooooo noo noo noooo noooo no noo Noooooooo. Noo nooo noooooooo noooo

in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
no noo noooo noooo nooooooo; noo noo noooo noo nooo noooooooo n nooooo

determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction. It is by
noooooooooo nooo nooo noooo no nooooo n noooooo noooooooooo. No no no

endless subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that
noooooo nooooooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooooo noooooooooo, nooo

some departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate. The
nooo noooooooooo no noooooo noooooo nooooo no noooooooooo noooooooo. Noo

right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference
noooo noooo nooo no noooooooo noooooo no no nooo nooooo, nooo noooooooo

to elucidating the sperm whale.
no noooooooooo noo noooo noooo.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER III. (FIN-BACK).--Under this head I reckon
NOOO N. (NOOOO), NOOOOOO NOO. (NOO-NOOO).--Noooo nooo nooo N nooooo

a monster which, by the various names of Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and
n noooooo noooo, no noo noooooo noooo no Noo-Nooo, Nooo-Noooo, noo

Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale
Nooo-Nooo, noo nooo nooo nooooo no noooo noo noo no nooooooo noo noooo

whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the
noooo noooooo noo no no noooo nooooooo no nooooooooo nooooooo noo

Atlantic, in the New York packet-tracks. In the length he attains, and
Nooooooo, no noo Noo Nooo nooooo-nooooo. No noo nooooo no noooooo, noo

in his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the right whale, but is of a less
no noo nooooo, noo Noo-nooo noooooooo noo noooo noooo, noo no no n nooo

portly girth, and a lighter colour, approaching to olive. His great lips
nooooo noooo, noo n noooooo nooooo, noooooooooo no noooo. Noo noooo nooo

present a cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds
noooooo n noooo-nooo nooooo, nooooo no noo noooooooooooo, nooooooo noooo

of large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, the fin, from which
no noooo nooooooo. Noo noooo nooooooooooooo noooooo, noo noo, nooo noooo

he derives his name, is often a conspicuous object. This fin is some
no noooooo noo nooo, no noooo n noooooooooo nooooo. Nooo noo no nooo

three or four feet long, growing vertically from the hinder part of the
noooo no nooo nooo nooo, noooooo nooooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo no noo

back, of an angular shape, and with a very sharp pointed end. Even if
nooo, no no noooooo noooo, noo nooo n nooo noooo noooooo noo. Nooo no

not the slightest other part of the creature be visible, this isolated
noo noo noooooooo noooo nooo no noo nooooooo no noooooo, nooo nooooooo

fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from the surface. When
noo nooo, no noooo, no nooo noooooo nooooooooo nooo noo noooooo. Nooo

the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with spherical ripples,
noo noo no nooooooooo nooo, noo nooooooo nooooo nooo noooooooo noooooo,

and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon the wrinkled
noo nooo nooooo-nooo noo nooooo no noo noooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo

surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle surrounding it
noooooo, no noo nooo no nooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo noooooooooo no

somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines graved on
nooooooo noooooooo n nooo, nooo noo noooo noo nooo nooo-noooo nooooo no

it. On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back. The Fin-Back is not
no. No nooo Nooo-nooo noo nooooo noooo nooo nooo. Noo Noo-Nooo no noo

gregarious. He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters. Very
nooooooooo. No noooo n noooo-noooo, no nooo noo noo noo-nooooo. Nooo

shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the
noo; nooooo noooo nooooooo; nooooooooooo nooooo no noo noooooo no noo

remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet
nooooooo noo nooo nooooo nooooo; noo nooooooo noo nooooo noooo noo

rising like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with
nooooo nooo n nooo nooooooooooo noooo nooo n nooooo noooo; nooooo nooo

such wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present
nooo nooooooo noooo noo nooooooo no nooooooo, no no nooo noo noooooo

pursuit from man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable
noooooo nooo noo; nooo noooooooo noooo noo nooooooo noo noooooooooooo

Cain of his race, bearing for his mark that style upon his back. From
Nooo no noo nooo, noooooo noo noo nooo nooo noooo nooo noo nooo. Nooo

having the baleen in his mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with
nooooo noo nooooo no noo noooo, noo Noo-Nooo no noooooooo nooooooo nooo

the right whale, among a theoretic species denominated WHALEBONE WHALES,
noo noooo noooo, noooo n noooooooo noooooo noooooooooo NOOOOOOOO NOOOOO,

that is, whales with baleen. Of these so called Whalebone whales, there
nooo no, nooooo nooo nooooo. No noooo no nooooo Noooooooo nooooo, noooo

would seem to be several varieties, most of which, however, are little
noooo nooo no no noooooo noooooooo, nooo no noooo, noooooo, noo nooooo

known. Broad-nosed whales and beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched
noooo. Noooo-noooo nooooo noo nooooo nooooo; nooo-nooooo nooooo; noooooo

whales; under-jawed whales and rostrated whales, are the fishermen's
nooooo; noooo-noooo nooooo noo noooooooo nooooo, noo noo noooooooo'n

names for a few sorts.
noooo noo n noo noooo.




In connection with this appellative of "Whalebone whales," it is of
No nooooooooo nooo nooo noooooooooo no "Noooooooo nooooo," no no no

great importance to mention, that however such a nomenclature may be
noooo nooooooooo no noooooo, nooo noooooo nooo n nooooooooooo noo no

convenient in facilitating allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is
nooooooooo no nooooooooooo noooooooo no nooo nooo no nooooo, noo no no

in vain to attempt a clear classification of the Leviathan, founded upon
no nooo no noooooo n noooo nooooooooooooo no noo Noooooooo, noooooo nooo

either his baleen, or hump, or fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those
nooooo noo nooooo, no nooo, no noo, no noooo; noooooooooooooo nooo noooo

marked parts or features very obviously seem better adapted to afford
nooooo noooo no nooooooo nooo noooooooo nooo nooooo noooooo no nooooo

the basis for a regular system of Cetology than any other detached
noo noooo noo n noooooo nooooo no Nooooooo nooo noo noooo nooooooo

bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his kinds, presents. How
nooooo nooooooooooo, noooo noo noooo, no noo noooo, nooooooo. Noo

then? The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are things whose
nooo? Noo nooooo, nooo, nooo-noo, noo noooo; noooo noo nooooo noooo

peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of whales,
noooooooooooo noo nooooooooooooooo noooooooo noooo noo noooo no nooooo,

without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in other
noooooo noo nooooo no nooo noo no noo nooooo no noooo noooooooo no noooo

and more essential particulars. Thus, the sperm whale and the humpbacked
noo nooo noooooooo noooooooooo. Nooo, noo noooo noooo noo noo nooooooooo

whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases. Then, this same
noooo, nooo noo n nooo; noo noooo noo nooooooooo nooooo. Nooo, nooo nooo

humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen;
nooooooooo noooo noo noo Noooooooo noooo, nooo no noooo noo nooooo;

but there again the similitude ceases. And it is just the same with the
noo noooo noooo noo nooooooooo nooooo. Noo no no nooo noo nooo nooo noo

other parts above mentioned. In various sorts of whales, they form such
noooo noooo noooo noooooooo. No noooooo noooo no nooooo, nooo nooo nooo

irregular combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached,
noooooooo nooooooooooo; no, no noo nooo no noo noo no nooo nooooooo,

such an irregular isolation; as utterly to defy all general
nooo no noooooooo noooooooo; no noooooo no nooo noo noooooo

methodization formed upon such a basis. On this rock every one of the
noooooooooooo nooooo nooo nooo n noooo. No nooo nooo noooo noo no noo

whale-naturalists has split.
noooo-noooooooooo noo noooo.




But it may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the
Noo no noo nooooooo no noooooooo nooo, no noo nooooooo noooo no noo

whale, in his anatomy--there, at least, we shall be able to hit the
noooo, no noo noooooo--noooo, no noooo, no noooo no nooo no noo noo

right classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the
noooo nooooooooooooo. Noo; nooo noooo, noo noooooo, no noooo no noo

Greenland whale's anatomy more striking than his baleen? Yet we have
Noooooooo noooo'n noooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo? Noo no nooo

seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify the
nooo nooo no noo nooooo no no nooooooooo noooooooo no nooooooo noo

Greenland whale. And if you descend into the bowels of the various
Noooooooo noooo. Noo no noo noooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo

leviathans, why there you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part as
nooooooooo, noo noooo noo nooo noo nooo nooooooooooo n nooooooo nooo no

available to the systematizer as those external ones already enumerated.
noooooooo no noo nooooooooooo no noooo nooooooo nooo noooooo nooooooooo.

What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whales bodily, in
Nooo nooo noooooo? noooooo noo no nooo nooo no noo nooooo nooooo, no

their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that way. And this is
noooo nooooo noooooo nooooo, noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo noo. Noo nooo no

the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the only one that can
noo Noooooooooooooo nooooo nooo noooooo; noo no no noo nooo noo nooo noo

possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable. To proceed.
nooooooo noooooo, noo no noooo no noooooooooo. No noooooo.




BOOK I. (FOLIO) CHAPTER IV. (HUMP-BACK).--This whale is often seen on
NOOO N. (NOOOO) NOOOOOO NO. (NOOO-NOOO).--Nooo noooo no noooo nooo no

the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there, and
noo nooooooo Nooooooo noooo. No noo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo noooo, noo

towed into harbor. He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you
noooo nooo nooooo. No noo n noooo nooo no noo nooo n noooooo; no noo

might call him the Elephant and Castle whale. At any rate, the popular
noooo nooo noo noo Nooooooo noo Nooooo noooo. No noo nooo, noo noooooo

name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm
nooo noo noo nooo noo nooooooooooo noooooooooo noo, noooo noo noooo

whale also has a hump though a smaller one. His oil is not very
noooo nooo noo n nooo nooooo n noooooo noo. Noo noo no noo nooo

valuable. He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and light-hearted of
nooooooo. No noo nooooo. No no noo nooo nooooooo noo noooo-noooooo no

all the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any
noo noo nooooo, nooooo nooo noo nooo noo noooo noooo noooooooo nooo noo

other of them.
noooo no nooo.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER V. (RAZOR-BACK).--Of this whale little is known
NOOO N. (NOOOO), NOOOOOO N. (NOOOO-NOOO).--No nooo noooo nooooo no noooo

but his name. I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn. Of a retiring
noo noo nooo. N nooo nooo noo no n nooooooo noo Nooo Nooo. No n nooooooo

nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers. Though no coward, he
nooooo, no nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooooooo. Nooooo no nooooo, no

has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long
noo noooo noo noooo noo nooo no noo noo noo nooo, noooo noooo no n nooo

sharp ridge. Let him go. I know little more of him, nor does anybody
noooo noooo. Noo noo no. N nooo nooooo nooo no noo, noo nooo noooooo

else.
nooo.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER VI. (SULPHUR-BOTTOM).--Another retiring
NOOO N. (NOOOO), NOOOOOO NO. (NOOOOOO-NOOOOO).--Noooooo nooooooo

gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the
noooooooo, nooo n noooooooo noooo, noooooooo noo no nooooooo noooo noo

Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings. He is seldom seen;
Noooooooo noooo no nooo no noo nooooooooo noooooo. No no nooooo nooo;

at least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas,
no noooo N nooo noooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo nooo,

and then always at too great a distance to study his countenance. He is
noo nooo nooooo no noo noooo n nooooooo no noooo noo noooooooooo. No no

never chased; he would run away with rope-walks of line. Prodigies are
noooo nooooo; no noooo noo nooo nooo nooo-noooo no nooo. Noooooooo noo

told of him. Adieu, Sulphur Bottom! I can say nothing more that is true
nooo no noo. Noooo, Noooooo Nooooo! N noo noo noooooo nooo nooo no nooo

of ye, nor can the oldest Nantucketer.
no no, noo noo noo nooooo Noooooooooo.




Thus ends BOOK I. (FOLIO), and now begins BOOK II. (OCTAVO).
Nooo nooo NOOO N. (NOOOO), noo noo nooooo NOOO NO. (NOOOOO).




OCTAVOES.*--These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which
NOOOOOOO.*--Noooo noooooo noo nooooo no nooooooo noooooooo, noooo noooo

present may be numbered:--I., the GRAMPUS; II., the BLACK FISH; III.,
noooooo noo no nooooooo:--N., noo NOOOOOO; NO., noo NOOOO NOOO; NOO.,

the NARWHALE; IV., the THRASHER; V., the KILLER.
noo NOOOOOOO; NO., noo NOOOOOOO; N., noo NOOOOO.







*Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.
*Noo nooo nooo no nooooo no noo noooooooooo noo Nooooo no nooo noooo.

Because, while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of
Noooooo, noooo noo nooooo no nooo noooo, nooooo noooooo nooo noooo no

the former order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them
noo nooooo noooo, nooooooooooo nooooo n noooooooooooo nooooooo no nooo

in figure, yet the bookbinder's Quarto volume in its dimensioned form
no nooooo, noo noo nooooooooo'n Nooooo nooooo no noo noooooooooo nooo

does not preserve the shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume
nooo noo nooooooo noo noooo no noo Noooo nooooo, noo noo Nooooo nooooo

does.
nooo.







BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER I. (GRAMPUS).--Though this fish, whose
NOOO NO. (NOOOOO), NOOOOOO N. (NOOOOOO).--Nooooo nooo nooo, noooo

loud sonorous breathing, or rather blowing, has furnished a proverb
nooo nooooooo noooooooo, no nooooo noooooo, noo noooooooo n noooooo

to landsmen, is so well known a denizen of the deep, yet is he not
no nooooooo, no no nooo noooo n noooooo no noo nooo, noo no no noo

popularly classed among whales. But possessing all the grand distinctive
noooooooo noooooo noooo nooooo. Noo nooooooooo noo noo noooo noooooooooo

features of the leviathan, most naturalists have recognised him for one.
nooooooo no noo noooooooo, nooo noooooooooo nooo nooooooooo noo noo noo.

He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen to twenty-five feet
No no no nooooooo nooooo nooo, noooooo nooo noooooo no nooooo-nooo nooo

in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the waist. He swims in
no nooooo, noo no noooooooooooo nooooooooo noooo noo noooo. No noooo no

herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is considerable in
noooo; no no noooo noooooooo nooooo, nooooo noo noo no nooooooooooo no

quantity, and pretty good for light. By some fishermen his approach is
nooooooo, noo nooooo nooo noo noooo. No nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo no

regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale.
nooooooo no noooooooooo no noo noooooo no noo noooo noooo noooo.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER II. (BLACK FISH).--I give the popular
NOOO NO. (NOOOOO), NOOOOOO NO. (NOOOO NOOO).--N nooo noo noooooo

fishermen's names for all these fish, for generally they are the best.
noooooooo'n noooo noo noo noooo nooo, noo noooooooo nooo noo noo nooo.

Where any name happens to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so,
Noooo noo nooo noooooo no no noooo no nooooooooooo, N noooo noo no,

and suggest another. I do so now, touching the Black Fish, so-called,
noo noooooo noooooo. N no no noo, nooooooo noo Noooo Nooo, no-nooooo,

because blackness is the rule among almost all whales. So, call him the
noooooo noooooooo no noo nooo noooo nooooo noo nooooo. No, nooo noo noo

Hyena Whale, if you please. His voracity is well known, and from the
Noooo Noooo, no noo nooooo. Noo nooooooo no nooo noooo, noo nooo noo

circumstance that the inner angles of his lips are curved upwards, he
nooooooooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo no noo nooo noo nooooo noooooo, no

carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his face. This whale
noooooo no noooooooooo Noooooooooooooo nooo no noo nooo. Nooo noooo

averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in almost
nooooooo nooo noooooo no nooooooo nooo no nooooo. No no noooo no nooooo

all latitudes. He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin
noo noooooooo. No noo n nooooooo noo no noooooo noo nooooo nooooo noo

in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose. When not more
no nooooooo, noooo noooo noooooooo nooo n Noooo nooo. Nooo noo nooo

profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
nooooooooo nooooooo, noo noooo noooo noooooo noooooooo noooooo noo Noooo

whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment--as
noooo, no nooo no noo nooooo no noooo noo noo nooooooo nooooooooo--no

some frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and quite alone by
nooo nooooo nooooooooooo, no noo noooooo no noooooo, noo noooo noooo no

themselves, burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax. Though their
nooooooooo, nooo nooooooo nooooo noooooo no noooooo noo. Nooooo noooo

blubber is very thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of
noooooo no nooo nooo, nooo no noooo nooooo nooo noooo noo noooooo no

thirty gallons of oil.
nooooo noooooo no noo.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER III. (NARWHALE), that is, NOSTRIL
NOOO NO. (NOOOOO), NOOOOOO NOO. (NOOOOOOO), nooo no, NOOOOOO

WHALE.--Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose
NOOOO.--Noooooo nooooooo no n noooooooo noooo noooo, no noooo N noooooo

from his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. The
nooo noo nooooooo nooo noooo nooooooooo nooooooo noo n nooooo nooo. Noo

creature is some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five
nooooooo no nooo noooooo nooo no nooooo, noooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo

feet, though some exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet. Strictly
nooo, nooooo nooo nooooo noo, noo nooo nooooo no noooooo nooo. Nooooooo

speaking, this horn is but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw
nooooooo, nooo nooo no noo n nooooooooo nooo, noooooo noo nooo noo noo

in a line a little depressed from the horizontal. But it is only
no n nooo n nooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo. Noo no no nooo

found on the sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its owner
noooo no noo nooooooo nooo, noooo noo no noo nooooo, nooooo noo noooo

something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left-handed man. What
noooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo no n nooooo nooo-nooooo noo. Nooo

precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it would be hard to
noooooo noooooo nooo noooo nooo no noooo noooooo, no noooo no nooo no

say. It does not seem to be used like the blade of the sword-fish and
noo. No nooo noo nooo no no nooo nooo noo noooo no noo noooo-nooo noo

bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale employs it for
nooo-nooo; nooooo nooo noooooo nooo no nooo noo Nooooooo noooooo no noo

a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food. Charley Coffin
n nooo no noooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noo noo nooo. Noooooo Nooooo

said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
nooo no noo nooo noo no noo-noooooo; noo noo Nooooooo, nooooo no noo

surface of the Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his
noooooo no noo Noooo Noo, noo noooooo no noooooo nooo noo, noooooo noo

horn up, and so breaks through. But you cannot prove either of these
nooo no, noo no nooooo noooooo. Noo noo nooooo noooo nooooo no noooo

surmises to be correct. My own opinion is, that however this one-sided
nooooooo no no noooooo. No noo noooooo no, nooo noooooo nooo noo-noooo

horn may really be used by the Narwhale--however that may be--it would
nooo noo nooooo no nooo no noo Nooooooo--noooooo nooo noo no--no noooo

certainly be very convenient to him for a folder in reading pamphlets.
noooooooo no nooo nooooooooo no noo noo n nooooo no noooooo noooooooo.

The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked whale, the Horned whale, and
Noo Nooooooo N nooo noooo nooooo noo Nooooo noooo, noo Nooooo noooo, noo

the Unicorn whale. He is certainly a curious example of the Unicornism
noo Noooooo noooo. No no noooooooo n noooooo noooooo no noo Nooooooooo

to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature. From certain
no no noooo no nooooo noooo noooooo no nooooooo nooooo. Nooo noooooo

cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same sea-unicorn's horn
nooooooooo noo noooooo N nooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooo noo-noooooo'n nooo

was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against poison,
noo no noooooo nooo nooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo noooooo nooooo,

and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices. It was also
noo no nooo, nooooooooooo no no noooooo noooooo nooooo. No noo nooo

distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the
noooooooo no n nooooooo noooo noo nooooooo nooooo, noo nooo noo nooo noo

horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn. Originally it
noooo no noo nooo nooo noo nooooooooooo nooo noooooooo. Nooooooooo no

was in itself accounted an object of great curiosity. Black Letter tells
noo no nooooo noooooooo no nooooo no noooo noooooooo. Noooo Nooooo noooo

me that Sir Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage, when
no nooo Noo Nooooo Noooooooo no noo nooooo nooo nooo nooooo, nooo

Queen Bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window
Noooo Nooo noo noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo no noo nooo n nooooo

of Greenwich Palace, as his bold ship sailed down the Thames; "when Sir
no Noooooooo Nooooo, no noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo noo Nooooo; "nooo Noo

Martin returned from that voyage," saith Black Letter, "on bended knees
Nooooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooo," noooo Noooo Nooooo, "no nooooo noooo

he presented to her highness a prodigious long horn of the Narwhale,
no noooooooo no noo nooooooo n nooooooooo nooo nooo no noo Nooooooo,

which for a long period after hung in the castle at Windsor." An Irish
noooo noo n nooo nooooo noooo nooo no noo nooooo no Noooooo." No Noooo

author avers that the Earl of Leicester, on bended knees, did likewise
nooooo noooo nooo noo Nooo no Noooooooo, no nooooo noooo, noo nooooooo

present to her highness another horn, pertaining to a land beast of the
noooooo no noo nooooooo noooooo nooo, nooooooooo no n nooo noooo no noo

unicorn nature.
noooooo nooooo.




The Narwhale has a very picturesque, leopard-like look, being of a
Noo Nooooooo noo n nooo noooooooooo, noooooo-nooo nooo, noooo no n

milk-white ground colour, dotted with round and oblong spots of black.
nooo-noooo nooooo nooooo, nooooo nooo noooo noo nooooo noooo no noooo.

His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there is little of it, and
Noo noo no nooo nooooooo, noooo noo nooo; noo noooo no nooooo no no, noo

he is seldom hunted. He is mostly found in the circumpolar seas.
no no nooooo nooooo. No no nooooo noooo no noo noooooooooo nooo.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER IV. (KILLER).--Of this whale little is
NOOO NO. (NOOOOO), NOOOOOO NO. (NOOOOO).--No nooo noooo nooooo no

precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the professed
noooooooo noooo no noo Noooooooooo, noo noooooo no noo no noo noooooooo

naturalist. From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should say
nooooooooo. Nooo nooo N nooo nooo no noo no n nooooooo, N nooooo noo

that he was about the bigness of a grampus. He is very savage--a sort of
nooo no noo noooo noo noooooo no n noooooo. No no nooo nooooo--n nooo no

Feegee fish. He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and
Nooooo nooo. No noooooooo noooo noo noooo Noooo nooooo no noo noo, noo

hangs there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death. The
noooo noooo nooo n noooo, nooo noo nooooo noooo no noooooo no noooo. Noo

Killer is never hunted. I never heard what sort of oil he has. Exception
Nooooo no noooo nooooo. N noooo noooo nooo nooo no noo no noo. Noooooooo

might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground
noooo no noooo no noo nooo nooooooo nooo nooo noooo, no noo nooooo

of its indistinctness. For we are all killers, on land and on sea;
no noo nooooooooooooo. Noo no noo noo noooooo, no nooo noo no noo;

Bonapartes and Sharks included.
Nooooooooo noo Nooooo nooooooo.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER V. (THRASHER).--This gentleman is famous for
NOOO NO. (NOOOOO), NOOOOOO N. (NOOOOOOO).--Nooo noooooooo no nooooo noo

his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. He mounts
noo nooo, noooo no nooo noo n nooooo no noooooooo noo nooo. No nooooo

the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
noo Noooo noooo'n nooo, noo no no noooo, no noooo noo noooooo no

flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
nooooooo noo; no nooo noooooooooooo noo noooo no noo noooo no n noooooo

process. Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer. Both
noooooo. Noooo nooo no noooo no noo Nooooooo nooo no noo Nooooo. Nooo

are outlaws, even in the lawless seas.
noo noooooo, nooo no noo noooooo nooo.




Thus ends BOOK II. (OCTAVO), and begins BOOK III. (DUODECIMO).
Nooo nooo NOOO NO. (NOOOOO), noo nooooo NOOO NOO. (NOOOOOOOO).




DUODECIMOES.--These include the smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise.
NOOOOOOOOOO.--Noooo noooooo noo noooooo nooooo. N. Noo Noooo Nooooooo.

II. The Algerine Porpoise. III. The Mealy-mouthed Porpoise.
NO. Noo Nooooooo Nooooooo. NOO. Noo Noooo-noooooo Nooooooo.




To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it may
No noooo noo nooo noo noooooo noooooooo no noooo noo noooooo, no noo

possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
nooooooo nooo noooooo, nooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo nooo no nooo

feet should be marshalled among WHALES--a word, which, in the popular
nooo nooooo no nooooooooo noooo NOOOOO--n nooo, noooo, no noo noooooo

sense, always conveys an idea of hugeness. But the creatures set
noooo, nooooo noooooo no nooo no nooooooo. Noo noo noooooooo noo

down above as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my
nooo noooo no Noooooooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo, no noo noooo no no

definition of what a whale is--i.e. a spouting fish, with a horizontal
nooooooooo no nooo n noooo no--n.n. n nooooooo nooo, nooo n nooooooooo

tail.
nooo.




BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER 1. (HUZZA PORPOISE).--This is the
NOOO NOO. (NOOOOOOOO), NOOOOOO n. (NOOOO NOOOOOOO).--Nooo no noo

common porpoise found almost all over the globe. The name is of my own
nooooo nooooooo noooo nooooo noo nooo noo noooo. Noo nooo no no no noo

bestowal; for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something
nooooooo; noo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo no noooooooo, noo noooooooo

must be done to distinguish them. I call him thus, because he always
nooo no nooo no noooooooooo nooo. N nooo noo nooo, noooooo no nooooo

swims in hilarious shoals, which upon the broad sea keep tossing
noooo no noooooooo nooooo, noooo nooo noo noooo noo nooo noooooo

themselves to heaven like caps in a Fourth-of-July crowd. Their
nooooooooo no nooooo nooo nooo no n Nooooo-no-Nooo noooo. Noooo

appearance is generally hailed with delight by the mariner. Full of fine
nooooooooo no noooooooo nooooo nooo noooooo no noo noooooo. Nooo no nooo

spirits, they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward. They
noooooo, nooo nooooooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo noooooo no nooooooo. Nooo

are the lads that always live before the wind. They are accounted a
noo noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo. Nooo noo noooooooo n

lucky omen. If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding
noooo nooo. No noo nooooooo noo noooooooo noooo nooooo no noooooooo

these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly
noooo noooooooo nooo, nooo nooooo nooo no; noo nooooo no noooo

gamesomeness is not in ye. A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will
nooooooooooo no noo no no. N nooo-noo, noooo Noooo Nooooooo nooo

yield you one good gallon of good oil. But the fine and delicate fluid
noooo noo noo nooo nooooo no nooo noo. Noo noo nooo noo nooooooo noooo

extracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable. It is in request among
noooooooo nooo noo nooo no noooooooooo nooooooo. No no no noooooo noooo

jewellers and watchmakers. Sailors put it on their hones. Porpoise
noooooooo noo noooooooooo. Noooooo noo no no noooo noooo. Nooooooo

meat is good eating, you know. It may never have occurred to you that
nooo no nooo nooooo, noo nooo. No noo noooo nooo nooooooo no noo nooo

a porpoise spouts. Indeed, his spout is so small that it is not very
n nooooooo nooooo. Nooooo, noo noooo no no noooo nooo no no noo nooo

readily discernible. But the next time you have a chance, watch him; and
noooooo noooooooooo. Noo noo nooo nooo noo nooo n nooooo, noooo noo; noo

you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in miniature.
noo nooo nooo noo noo noooo Noooo noooo noooooo no noooooooo.




BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER II. (ALGERINE PORPOISE).--A pirate. Very
NOOO NOO. (NOOOOOOOO), NOOOOOO NO. (NOOOOOOO NOOOOOOO).--N nooooo. Nooo

savage. He is only found, I think, in the Pacific. He is somewhat larger
nooooo. No no nooo noooo, N noooo, no noo Noooooo. No no nooooooo nooooo

than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make. Provoke him,
nooo noo Noooo Nooooooo, noo nooo no noo nooo noooooo nooo. Noooooo noo,

and he will buckle to a shark. I have lowered for him many times, but
noo no nooo nooooo no n noooo. N nooo noooooo noo noo nooo noooo, noo

never yet saw him captured.
noooo noo noo noo nooooooo.




BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER III. (MEALY-MOUTHED PORPOISE).--The
NOOO NOO. (NOOOOOOOO), NOOOOOO NOO. (NOOOO-NOOOOOO NOOOOOOO).--Noo

largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in the Pacific, so far as it is
noooooo nooo no Nooooooo; noo nooo noooo no noo Noooooo, no noo no no no

known. The only English name, by which he has hitherto been designated,
noooo. Noo nooo Noooooo nooo, no noooo no noo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo,

is that of the fishers--Right-Whale Porpoise, from the circumstance that
no nooo no noo noooooo--Noooo-Noooo Nooooooo, nooo noo nooooooooooo nooo

he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio. In shape, he differs
no no noooooo noooo no noo nooooooo no nooo Noooo. No noooo, no noooooo

in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a less rotund and jolly
no nooo nooooo nooo noo Noooo Nooooooo, noooo no n nooo nooooo noo noooo

girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like figure. He has
noooo; nooooo, no no no noooo n nooo noo noooooooo-nooo nooooo. No noo

no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a lovely tail,
no nooo no noo nooo (nooo noooo noooooooo nooo), no noo n nooooo nooo,

and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue. But his mealy-mouth spoils
noo noooooooooo Nooooo nooo no n noooo noo. Noo noo noooo-noooo nooooo

all. Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a deep sable,
noo. Nooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooo no no n nooo noooo,

yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship's hull, called
noo n nooooooo nooo, nooooooo no noo nooo no n nooo'n nooo, nooooo

the "bright waist," that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two
noo "nooooo noooo," nooo nooo noooooo noo nooo nooo no noooo, nooo noo

separate colours, black above and white below. The white comprises part
nooooooo noooooo, noooo noooo noo noooo noooo. Noo noooo noooooooo nooo

of his head, and the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he
no noo nooo, noo noo noooo no noo noooo, noooo noooo noo nooo no no no

had just escaped from a felonious visit to a meal-bag. A most mean and
noo nooo noooooo nooo n noooooooo noooo no n nooo-noo. N nooo nooo noo

mealy aspect! His oil is much like that of the common porpoise.
noooo nooooo! Noo noo no nooo nooo nooo no noo nooooo nooooooo.







Beyond the DUODECIMO, this system does not proceed, inasmuch as
Nooooo noo NOOOOOOOO, nooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo, nooooooo no

the Porpoise is the smallest of the whales. Above, you have all the
noo Nooooooo no noo nooooooo no noo nooooo. Noooo, noo nooo noo noo

Leviathans of note. But there are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive,
Nooooooooo no nooo. Noo noooo noo n nooooo no noooooooo, nooooooo,

half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by
nooo-nooooooo nooooo, noooo, no no Nooooooo nooooooo, N nooo no

reputation, but not personally. I shall enumerate them by their
nooooooooo, noo noo nooooooooo. N noooo noooooooo nooo no noooo

fore-castle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
nooo-nooooo nooooooooooo; noo nooooooo nooo n nooo noo no nooooooo no

future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun. If
nooooo noooooooooooo, noo noo nooooooo nooo N nooo nooo noo noooo. No

any of the following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then
noo no noo noooooooo nooooo, noooo noooooooo no nooooo noo nooooo, nooo

he can readily be incorporated into this System, according to his Folio,
no noo noooooo no nooooooooooo nooo nooo Nooooo, noooooooo no noo Noooo,

Octavo, or Duodecimo magnitude:--The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale;
Nooooo, no Noooooooo noooooooo:--Noo Nooooo-Nooo Noooo; noo Nooo Noooo;

the Pudding-Headed Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon
noo Noooooo-Nooooo Noooo; noo Nooo Noooo; noo Noooooo Noooo; noo Nooooo

Whale; the Scragg Whale; the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the
Noooo; noo Nooooo Noooo; noo Nooooooo Noooo; noo Nooooooo Noooo; noo

Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale; the Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic,
Noooooo Noooo; noo Nooo Noooo; noo Nooo Noooo; noo. Nooo Noooooooo,

Dutch, and old English authorities, there might be quoted other lists of
Noooo, noo noo Noooooo noooooooooo, noooo noooo no nooooo noooo noooo no

uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth names. But I omit
noooooooo nooooo, noooooo nooo noo nooooo no noooooo noooo. Noo N nooo

them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting them for
nooo no nooooooooo nooooooo; noo noo nooooo nooo nooooooooo nooo noo

mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing.
nooo nooooo, nooo no Nooooooooooo, noo nooooooooo noooooo.




Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system would not be
Noooooo: No noo nooooo no noo nooooo, nooo nooo nooooo noooo noo no

here, and at once, perfected. You cannot but plainly see that I have
nooo, noo no nooo, noooooooo. Noo nooooo noo noooooo noo nooo N nooo

kept my word. But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
nooo no nooo. Noo N noo noooo no noooooooooo Nooooo nooooooo nooo

unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the
nooooooooo, nooo no noo noooo Noooooooo no Noooooo noo nooo, nooo noo

crane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower. For small
noooo noooo nooooooo nooo noo noo no noo noooooooooo noooo. Noo noooo

erections may be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true
noooooooo noo no nooooooo no noooo noooo nooooooooo; noooo nooo, nooo

ones, ever leave the copestone to posterity. God keep me from ever
nooo, nooo noooo noo noooooooo no noooooooo. Noo nooo no nooo nooo

completing anything. This whole book is but a draught--nay, but the
nooooooooo nooooooo. Nooo noooo nooo no noo n noooooo--noo, noo noo

draught of a draught. Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience!
noooooo no n noooooo. No, Nooo, Nooooooo, Nooo, noo Nooooooo!










CHAPTER 33. The Specksynder.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooooooo.







Concerning the officers of the whale-craft, this seems as good a place
Nooooooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo-noooo, nooo noooo no nooo n noooo

as any to set down a little domestic peculiarity on ship-board, arising
no noo no noo nooo n nooooo nooooooo noooooooooo no nooo-noooo, noooooo

from the existence of the harpooneer class of officers, a class unknown
nooo noo noooooooo no noo nooooooooo noooo no nooooooo, n noooo noooooo

of course in any other marine than the whale-fleet.
no nooooo no noo noooo nooooo nooo noo noooo-noooo.




The large importance attached to the harpooneer's vocation is evinced
Noo noooo nooooooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooo'n nooooooo no noooooo

by the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries
no noo nooo, nooo nooooooooo no noo noo Noooo Noooooo, noo noooooooo

and more ago, the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in
noo nooo noo, noo noooooo no n noooo nooo noo noo nooooo nooooo no

the person now called the captain, but was divided between him and an
noo nooooo noo nooooo noo noooooo, noo noo noooooo noooooo noo noo no

officer called the Specksynder. Literally this word means Fat-Cutter;
noooooo nooooo noo Noooooooooo. Noooooooo nooo nooo noooo Noo-Nooooo;

usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer. In
noooo, noooooo, no nooo nooo no nooooooooo no Noooo Nooooooooo. No

those days, the captain's authority was restricted to the navigation
noooo nooo, noo noooooo'n noooooooo noo nooooooooo no noo nooooooooo

and general management of the vessel; while over the whale-hunting
noo noooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo; noooo nooo noo noooo-noooooo

department and all its concerns, the Specksynder or Chief Harpooneer
nooooooooo noo noo noo nooooooo, noo Noooooooooo no Noooo Nooooooooo

reigned supreme. In the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted
noooooo noooooo. No noo Noooooo Noooooooo Noooooo, noooo noo noooooooo

title of Specksioneer, this old Dutch official is still retained, but
noooo no Nooooooooooo, nooo noo Noooo nooooooo no noooo nooooooo, noo

his former dignity is sadly abridged. At present he ranks simply
noo nooooo noooooo no noooo nooooooo. No noooooo no noooo nooooo

as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is but one of the captain's more
no nooooo Nooooooooo; noo no nooo, no noo noo no noo noooooo'n nooo

inferior subalterns. Nevertheless, as upon the good conduct of the
nooooooo nooooooooo. Nooooooooooo, no nooo noo nooo noooooo no noo

harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely depends, and since
noooooooooo noo noooooo no n noooooo nooooo noooooo noooooo, noo noooo

in the American Fishery he is not only an important officer in the boat,
no noo Nooooooo Noooooo no no noo nooo no noooooooo noooooo no noo nooo,

but under certain circumstances (night watches on a whaling ground) the
noo noooo noooooo noooooooooooo (noooo noooooo no n noooooo nooooo) noo

command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the grand political
noooooo no noo nooo'n nooo no nooo noo; noooooooo noo noooo noooooooo

maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart from
noooo no noo noo noooooo, nooo no nooooo noooooooo nooo noooo nooo

the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their
noo noo nooooo noo nooo, noo no no nooo noo noooooooooooo no noooo

professional superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded as
nooooooooooo nooooooo; nooooo nooooo, no nooo, nooooooooo nooooooo no

their social equal.
noooo nooooo noooo.




Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea, is
Noo, noo noooo noooooooooo noooo noooooo noooooo noo noo no noo, no

this--the first lives aft, the last forward. Hence, in whale-ships and
nooo--noo noooo noooo noo, noo nooo noooooo. Noooo, no noooo-noooo noo

merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and
noooooooooo noooo, noo noooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo; noo

so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in
no, noo, no nooo no noo Nooooooo noooooo noo noooooooooo noo nooooo no

the after part of the ship. That is to say, they take their meals in the
noo noooo nooo no noo nooo. Nooo no no noo, nooo nooo noooo noooo no noo

captain's cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it.
noooooo'n noooo, noo noooo no n noooo nooooooooo noooooooooooo nooo no.




Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest
Nooooo noo nooo nooooo no n Nooooooo noooooo nooooo (no noo noo noooooo

of all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and
no noo noooooo noo no nooo nooo no noo), noo nooooooo nooooo no no, noo

the community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high
noo noooooooo no nooooooo nooooooooo noooo n noooooo, noo no nooo, nooo

or low, depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their
no noo, nooooo noo noooo noooooo, noo nooo noooo noooo, noo nooo noooo

common luck, together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and
nooooo nooo, nooooooo nooo noooo nooooo noooooooo, noooooooooo, noo

hard work; though all these things do in some cases tend to beget a less
nooo nooo; nooooo noo noooo nooooo no no nooo noooo nooo no noooo n nooo

rigorous discipline than in merchantmen generally; yet, never mind
nooooooo nooooooooo nooo no noooooooooo noooooooo; noo, noooo nooo

how much like an old Mesopotamian family these whalemen may, in some
noo nooo nooo no noo Nooooooooooo nooooo noooo nooooooo noo, no nooo

primitive instances, live together; for all that, the punctilious
noooooooo noooooooo, nooo nooooooo; noo noo nooo, noo noooooooooo

externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed,
noooooooo, no noooo, no noo noooooo-nooo noo nooooo nooooooooo noooooo,

and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships in
noo no no nooooooo nooo nooo. Nooooo, nooo noo noo Noooooooo noooo no

which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
noooo noo nooo noo noo noooooo nooooooo noo noooooo-nooo nooo no nooooo

grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost
nooooooo noo noooooooo no noo nooooooo nooo; noo, noooooooo nooooo

as much outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the
no nooo noooooo nooooo no no no nooo noo nooooooo nooooo, noo noo noo

shabbiest of pilot-cloth.
noooooooo no noooo-noooo.




And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least
Noo nooooo no noo noo noo noooo noooooo no noo Nooooo noo noo noooo

given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
noooo no nooo nooo no nooooooooo nooooooooo; noo nooooo noo nooo nooooo

he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he
no nooo noooooo, noo nooooooo, noooooooooooo noooooooo; nooooo no

required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon
nooooooo no noo no nooooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo noo nooooooo nooo

the quarter-deck; and though there were times when, owing to peculiar
noo noooooo-nooo; noo nooooo noooo nooo noooo nooo, noooo no nooooooo

circumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed, he
noooooooooooo noooooooo nooo nooooo noooooooo no no nooooooo, no

addressed them in unusual terms, whether of condescension or IN
noooooooo nooo no noooooo noooo, noooooo no noooooooooooo no NO

TERROREM, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was by no means
NOOOOOOO, no noooooooo; noo nooo Noooooo Nooo noo no no noooo

unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.
noooooooooo no noo noooooooo noooo noo nooooo no noo noo.




Nor, perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind those
Noo, noooooo, nooo no nooo no no nooooooooo noooooooo, nooo nooooo noooo

forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; incidentally
noooo noo nooooo, no no nooo, no noooooooo nooooo noooooo; nooooooooooo

making use of them for other and more private ends than they were
nooooo noo no nooo noo noooo noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo

legitimately intended to subserve. That certain sultanism of his brain,
nooooooooooo nooooooo no nooooooo. Nooo noooooo noooooooo no noo noooo,

which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested; through
noooo noo noooooooo no n nooo nooooo nooooooo nooooooooooo; noooooo

those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in an irresistible
noooo noooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooooo noooooooo no no nooooooooooo

dictatorship. For be a man's intellectual superiority what it will,
nooooooooooo. Noo no n noo'n nooooooooooo noooooooooo nooo no nooo,

it can never assume the practical, available supremacy over other men,
no noo noooo nooooo noo noooooooo, noooooooo noooooooo nooo noooo noo,

without the aid of some sort of external arts and entrenchments, always,
noooooo noo noo no nooo nooo no nooooooo nooo noo noooooooooooo, nooooo,

in themselves, more or less paltry and base. This it is, that for ever
no nooooooooo, nooo no nooo nooooo noo nooo. Nooo no no, nooo noo nooo

keeps God's true princes of the Empire from the world's hustings; and
noooo Noo'n nooo noooooo no noo Nooooo nooo noo noooo'n nooooooo; noo

leaves the highest honours that this air can give, to those men who
nooooo noo noooooo noooooo nooo nooo noo noo nooo, no noooo noo noo

become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice
nooooo nooooo nooo noooooo noooo nooooooo noooooooooo no noo nooooo

hidden handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted
nooooo noooooo no noo Nooooo Noooo, nooo noooooo noooo noooooooo

superiority over the dead level of the mass. Such large virtue lurks
noooooooooo nooo noo nooo noooo no noo nooo. Nooo noooo nooooo noooo

in these small things when extreme political superstitions invest them,
no noooo noooo nooooo nooo noooooo noooooooo noooooooooooo nooooo nooo,

that in some royal instances even to idiot imbecility they have imparted
nooo no nooo noooo noooooooo nooo no noooo nooooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo

potency. But when, as in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown
noooooo. Noo nooo, no no noo nooo no Nooooooo noo Nooo, noo nooooo noooo

of geographical empire encircles an imperial brain; then, the plebeian
no nooooooooooo nooooo noooooooo no nooooooo noooo; nooo, noo nooooooo

herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization. Nor, will the
noooo nooooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooooooo nooooooooooooo. Noo, nooo noo

tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its fullest
nooooo noooooooo noo noooo nooooo nooooo noooooooooooooo no noo noooooo

sweep and direct swing, ever forget a hint, incidentally so important in
noooo noo nooooo noooo, nooo nooooo n nooo, nooooooooooo no noooooooo no

his art, as the one now alluded to.
noo noo, no noo noo noo noooooo no.




But Ahab, my Captain, still moves before me in all his Nantucket
Noo Nooo, no Noooooo, noooo noooo nooooo no no noo noo Noooooooo

grimness and shagginess; and in this episode touching Emperors and
nooooooo noo nooooooooo; noo no nooo noooooo nooooooo Nooooooo noo

Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with a poor old
Noooo, N nooo noo noooooo nooo N nooo nooo no no nooo n nooo noo

whale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical trappings
noooo-nooooo nooo noo; noo, noooooooo, noo noooooo nooooooooo noooooooo

and housings are denied me. Oh, Ahab! what shall be grand in thee, it
noo nooooooo noo nooooo no. No, Nooo! nooo noooo no noooo no nooo, no

must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
nooo noooo no noooooo no nooo noo noooo, noo noooo noo no noo nooo, noo

featured in the unbodied air!
nooooooo no noo nooooooo noo!










CHAPTER 34. The Cabin-Table.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo-Noooo.







It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread
No no nooo; noo Noooo-Noo, noo noooooo, noooooooo noo nooo nooo-no-noooo

face from the cabin-scuttle, announces dinner to his lord and
nooo nooo noo noooo-noooooo, noooooooo nooooo no noo nooo noo

master; who, sitting in the lee quarter-boat, has just been taking an
nooooo; noo, noooooo no noo noo noooooo-nooo, noo nooo nooo nooooo no

observation of the sun; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude on the
noooooooooo no noo noo; noo no noo nooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo no noo

smooth, medallion-shaped tablet, reserved for that daily purpose on
nooooo, noooooooo-nooooo nooooo, nooooooo noo nooo noooo noooooo no

the upper part of his ivory leg. From his complete inattention to the
noo noooo nooo no noo noooo noo. Nooo noo nooooooo noooooooooo no noo

tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not heard his menial. But
noooooo, noo noooo noooo nooo noooo Nooo noo noo noooo noo nooooo. Noo

presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he swings himself to
noooooooo, nooooooo nooo no noo noooo noooooo, no nooooo noooooo no

the deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying, "Dinner, Mr.
noo nooo, noo no no nooo, noooooooooooo noooo, nooooo, "Nooooo, No.

Starbuck," disappears into the cabin.
Nooooooo," nooooooooo nooo noo noooo.




When the last echo of his sultan's step has died away, and Starbuck, the
Nooo noo nooo nooo no noo nooooo'n nooo noo nooo nooo, noo Nooooooo, noo

first Emir, has every reason to suppose that he is seated, then Starbuck
noooo Nooo, noo noooo nooooo no noooooo nooo no no nooooo, nooo Nooooooo

rouses from his quietude, takes a few turns along the planks, and, after
nooooo nooo noo nooooooo, noooo n noo noooo noooo noo nooooo, noo, noooo

a grave peep into the binnacle, says, with some touch of pleasantness,
n noooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo, nooo, nooo nooo noooo no nooooooooooo,

"Dinner, Mr. Stubb," and descends the scuttle. The second Emir lounges
"Nooooo, No. Noooo," noo nooooooo noo noooooo. Noo nooooo Nooo noooooo

about the rigging awhile, and then slightly shaking the main brace, to
noooo noo noooooo nooooo, noo nooo nooooooo noooooo noo nooo noooo, no

see whether it will be all right with that important rope, he likewise
noo noooooo no nooo no noo noooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooo, no nooooooo

takes up the old burden, and with a rapid "Dinner, Mr. Flask," follows
noooo no noo noo nooooo, noo nooo n noooo "Nooooo, No. Noooo," noooooo

after his predecessors.
noooo noo nooooooooooo.




But the third Emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck,
Noo noo noooo Nooo, noo nooooo noooooo noo noooo no noo noooooo-nooo,

seems to feel relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all
noooo no nooo nooooooo nooo nooo noooooo noooooooo; noo, noooooo noo

sorts of knowing winks in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his
noooo no noooooo noooo no noo noooo no nooooooooo, noo noooooo noo noo

shoes, he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right
noooo, no noooooo nooo n noooo noo noooooooo nooooo no n nooooooo noooo

over the Grand Turk's head; and then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching
nooo noo Noooo Nooo'n nooo; noo nooo, no n noooooooo noooooo, nooooooo

his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so
noo noo no nooo noo nooooooo noo n noooo, no nooo nooo nooooooooo no

far at least as he remains visible from the deck, reversing all other
noo no noooo no no noooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo, noooooooo noo noooo

processions, by bringing up the rear with music. But ere stepping into
noooooooooo, no nooooooo no noo nooo nooo noooo. Noo noo nooooooo nooo

the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogether, and,
noo noooo noooooo noooo, no nooooo, noooo n noo nooo nooooooooo, noo,

then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab's presence,
nooo, noooooooooo, noooooooo nooooo Noooo nooooo Nooo Nooo'n nooooooo,

in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.
no noo noooooooo no Nooooooo, no noo Noooo.




It is not the least among the strange things bred by the intense
No no noo noo noooo noooo noo noooooo nooooo nooo no noo noooooo

artificialness of sea-usages, that while in the open air of the deck
nooooooooooooo no noo-nooooo, nooo noooo no noo nooo noo no noo nooo

some officers will, upon provocation, bear themselves boldly and
nooo nooooooo nooo, nooo noooooooooo, nooo nooooooooo nooooo noo

defyingly enough towards their commander; yet, ten to one, let those
noooooooo nooooo noooooo noooo noooooooo; noo, noo no noo, noo noooo

very officers the next moment go down to their customary dinner in that
nooo nooooooo noo nooo nooooo no nooo no noooo noooooooo nooooo no nooo

same commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not to say
nooo noooooooo'n noooo, noo noooooooooo noooo noooooooooo, noo no noo

deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of
noooooooooo noo nooooo noo noooooo noo, no no nooo no noo nooo no

the table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical. Wherefore this
noo noooo; nooo no nooooooooo, noooooooo nooo noooooo. Noooooooo nooo

difference? A problem? Perhaps not. To have been Belshazzar, King of
nooooooooo? N noooooo? Noooooo noo. No nooo nooo Nooooooooo, Nooo no

Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,
Noooooo; noo no nooo nooo Nooooooooo, noo noooooooo noo noooooooooo,

therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur. But he
noooooo noooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo noooo no noooooo nooooooo. Noo no

who in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own
noo no noo noooooo noooo noo noooooooooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo noo

private dinner-table of invited guests, that man's unchallenged power
noooooo nooooo-noooo no noooooo nooooo, nooo noo'n nooooooooooo noooo

and dominion of individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of
noo nooooooo no nooooooooo noooooooo noo noo nooo; nooo noo'n noooooo no

state transcends Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest. Who
noooo nooooooooo Nooooooooo'n, noo Nooooooooo noo noo noo nooooooo. Noo

has but once dined his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar. It
noo noo nooo noooo noo noooooo, noo nooooo nooo no no no no Nooooo. No

is a witchery of social czarship which there is no withstanding. Now,
no n nooooooo no nooooo nooooooo noooo noooo no no nooooooooooo. Noo,

if to this consideration you superadd the official supremacy of a
no no nooo noooooooooooo noo nooooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo no n

ship-master, then, by inference, you will derive the cause of that
nooo-nooooo, nooo, no noooooooo, noo nooo nooooo noo noooo no nooo

peculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.
noooooooooo no noo-nooo nooo noooooooo.




Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned
Nooo noo noooo-nooooo noooo, Nooo nooooooo nooo n nooo, noooo

sea-lion on the white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still
noo-nooo no noo noooo noooo noooo, nooooooooo no noo noooooo noo noooo

deferential cubs. In his own proper turn, each officer waited to be
noooooooooo nooo. No noo noo nooooo nooo, nooo noooooo nooooo no no

served. They were as little children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab,
nooooo. Nooo nooo no nooooo nooooooo nooooo Nooo; noo noo, no Nooo,

there seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance. With one mind,
noooo nooooo noo no nooo noo nooooooo nooooo noooooooo. Nooo noo nooo,

their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man's knife, as he carved
noooo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo noo noo noo'n noooo, no no nooooo

the chief dish before him. I do not suppose that for the world they
noo noooo nooo nooooo noo. N no noo noooooo nooo noo noo noooo nooo

would have profaned that moment with the slightest observation, even
noooo nooo nooooooo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooooooo, nooo

upon so neutral a topic as the weather. No! And when reaching out his
nooo no noooooo n noooo no noo noooooo. No! Noo nooo nooooooo noo noo

knife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked, Ahab thereby
noooo noo nooo, noooooo noooo noo noooo no nooo noo nooooo, Nooo noooooo

motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the mate received his meat as
nooooooo Nooooooo'n noooo noooooo noo, noo nooo nooooooo noo nooo no

though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little started
nooooo noooooooo nooo; noo noo no nooooooo; noo n nooooo noooooo

if, perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed it
no, noooooooo, noo noooo nooooo noooooo noo noooo; noo nooooo no

noiselessly; and swallowed it, not without circumspection. For, like
noooooooooo; noo noooooooo no, noo noooooo nooooooooooooo. Noo, nooo

the Coronation banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly
noo Nooooooooo noooooo no Noooooooo, noooo noo Nooooo Noooooo nooooooooo

dines with the seven Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were
noooo nooo noo noooo Nooooooo Nooooooo, no noooo noooo noooo nooo

somehow solemn meals, eaten in awful silence; and yet at table old Ahab
noooooo nooooo noooo, noooo no noooo noooooo; noo noo no noooo noo Nooo

forbade not conversation; only he himself was dumb. What a relief it was
noooooo noo nooooooooooo; nooo no noooooo noo nooo. Nooo n nooooo no noo

to choking Stubb, when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold below. And
no noooooo Noooo, nooo n noo nooo n nooooo nooooo no noo nooo noooo. Noo

poor little Flask, he was the youngest son, and little boy of this weary
nooo nooooo Noooo, no noo noo nooooooo noo, noo nooooo noo no nooo noooo

family party. His were the shinbones of the saline beef; his would have
nooooo noooo. Noo nooo noo noooooooo no noo nooooo nooo; noo noooo nooo

been the drumsticks. For Flask to have presumed to help himself, this
nooo noo nooooooooo. Noo Noooo no nooo nooooooo no nooo noooooo, nooo

must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in the first degree. Had
nooo nooo nooooo no noo nooooooooo no noooooo no noo noooo nooooo. Noo

he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never more would he have
no nooooo noooooo no nooo noooo, noooooooo, noooo nooo noooo no nooo

been able to hold his head up in this honest world; nevertheless,
nooo nooo no nooo noo nooo no no nooo nooooo noooo; nooooooooooo,

strange to say, Ahab never forbade him. And had Flask helped himself,
noooooo no noo, Nooo noooo noooooo noo. Noo noo Noooo nooooo noooooo,

the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it. Least of all, did
noo noooooo nooo Nooo noo noooo no nooo no noooooo no. Noooo no noo, noo

Flask presume to help himself to butter. Whether he thought the owners
Noooo noooooo no nooo noooooo no nooooo. Noooooo no noooooo noo nooooo

of the ship denied it to him, on account of its clotting his clear,
no noo nooo nooooo no no noo, no noooooo no noo nooooooo noo noooo,

sunny complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so long a voyage in such
noooo nooooooooo; no noooooo no nooooo nooo, no no nooo n nooooo no nooo

marketless waters, butter was at a premium, and therefore was not for
nooooooooo nooooo, nooooo noo no n noooooo, noo noooooooo noo noo noo

him, a subaltern; however it was, Flask, alas! was a butterless man!
noo, n noooooooo; noooooo no noo, Noooo, nooo! noo n nooooooooo noo!




Another thing. Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flask
Noooooo noooo. Noooo noo noo nooo nooooo nooo no noo nooooo, noo Noooo

is the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
no noo noooo noo no. Nooooooo! Noo nooooo Noooo'n nooooo noo noooo

jammed in point of time. Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him;
nooooo no noooo no nooo. Nooooooo noo Noooo nooo noo noo noooo no noo;

and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear. If Stubb
noo noo nooo nooo nooo noo noooooooo no nooooooo no noo nooo. No Noooo

even, who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small
nooo, noo no noo n noo nooooo nooo Noooo, noooooo no nooo noo n noooo

appetite, and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask
nooooooo, noo nooo noooo nooooooo no nooooooooo noo nooooo, nooo Noooo

must bestir himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day;
nooo nooooo noooooo, no nooo noo noo nooo nooo noooo noooooooo nooo noo;

for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck.
noo no no noooooo nooo noooo noo Noooo no noooooo Noooo no noo nooo.

Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private, that ever since he
Noooooooo no noo nooo Noooo nooo nooooooo no noooooo, nooo nooo noooo no

had arisen to the dignity of an officer, from that moment he had never
noo nooooo no noo noooooo no no noooooo, nooo nooo nooooo no noo noooo

known what it was to be otherwise than hungry, more or less. For what
noooo nooo no noo no no noooooooo nooo nooooo, nooo no nooo. Noo nooo

he ate did not so much relieve his hunger, as keep it immortal in him.
no noo noo noo no nooo noooooo noo nooooo, no nooo no nooooooo no noo.

Peace and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departed from
Noooo noo nooooooooooo, noooooo Noooo, nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo

my stomach. I am an officer; but, how I wish I could fish a bit of
no noooooo. N no no noooooo; noo, noo N nooo N noooo nooo n noo no

old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to when I was before the
noo-noooooooo nooo no noo nooooooooo, no N nooo no nooo N noo nooooo noo

mast. There's the fruits of promotion now; there's the vanity of glory:
nooo. Noooo'n noo nooooo no noooooooo noo; noooo'n noo nooooo no noooo:

there's the insanity of life! Besides, if it were so that any mere
noooo'n noo nooooooo no nooo! Noooooo, no no nooo no nooo noo nooo

sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask's official
nooooo no noo Nooooo noo n nooooo noooooo Noooo no Noooo'n nooooooo

capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample vengeance,
nooooooo, noo nooo nooooo noo no no, no noooo no nooooo noooo noooooooo,

was to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask through the cabin
noo no no noo no nooooo-nooo, noo noo n nooo no Noooo noooooo noo noooo

sky-light, sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab.
noo-noooo, noooooo noooo noo nooooooooooo nooooo noooo Nooo.




Now, Ahab and his three mates formed what may be called the first table
Noo, Nooo noo noo noooo noooo nooooo nooo noo no nooooo noo noooo noooo

in the Pequod's cabin. After their departure, taking place in inverted
no noo Nooooo'n noooo. Noooo noooo noooooooo, nooooo noooo no nooooooo

order to their arrival, the canvas cloth was cleared, or rather was
noooo no noooo noooooo, noo nooooo noooo noo noooooo, no nooooo noo

restored to some hurried order by the pallid steward. And then the three
nooooooo no nooo noooooo noooo no noo nooooo noooooo. Noo nooo noo noooo

harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being its residuary legatees.
noooooooooo nooo nooooo no noo noooo, nooo noooo noo noooooooo nooooooo.

They made a sort of temporary servants' hall of the high and mighty
Nooo nooo n nooo no noooooooo nooooooo' nooo no noo nooo noo nooooo

cabin.
noooo.




In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint and nameless
No noooooo nooooooo no noo nooooo noooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooo

invisible domineerings of the captain's table, was the entire care-free
noooooooo nooooooooooo no noo noooooo'n noooo, noo noo nooooo nooo-nooo

license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior fellows
noooooo noo nooo, noo nooooo noooooo noooooooo no noooo nooooooo noooooo

the harpooneers. While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the
noo noooooooooo. Noooo noooo noooooo, noo noooo, nooooo nooooo no noo

sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food
noooo no noo nooooo no noooo noo nooo, noo noooooooooo nooooo noooo nooo

with such a relish that there was a report to it. They dined like lords;
nooo nooo n nooooo nooo noooo noo n nooooo no no. Nooo noooo nooo noooo;

they filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.
nooo nooooo noooo noooooo nooo Nooooo noooo noo noo noooooo nooo nooooo.

Such portentous appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out
Nooo nooooooooo noooooooo noo Nooooooo noo Nooooooo, nooo no nooo noo

the vacancies made by the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was
noo noooooooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo, noooo noo nooo Noooo-Noo noo

fain to bring on a great baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of
nooo no noooo no n noooo noooo no nooo-nooo, noooooooo nooooooo noo no

the solid ox. And if he were not lively about it, if he did not go with
noo noooo no. Noo no no nooo noo nooooo noooo no, no no noo noo no nooo

a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of
n nooooo noo-nooo-noo-nooo, nooo Nooooooo noo no noooooooooooo noo no

accelerating him by darting a fork at his back, harpoon-wise. And once
nooooooooooo noo no noooooo n nooo no noo nooo, noooooo-nooo. Noo nooo

Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted Dough-Boy's memory by
Nooooo, nooooo nooo n nooooo noooo, nooooooo Noooo-Noo'n nooooo no

snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a great empty
noooooooo noo no nooooo, noo noooooooo noo nooo nooo n noooo noooo

wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out the
nooooo nooooooo, noooo Nooooooo, noooo no nooo, noooo nooooo noo noo

circle preliminary to scalping him. He was naturally a very nervous,
nooooo noooooooooo no nooooooo noo. No noo noooooooo n nooo noooooo,

shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny
nooooooooo nooo no nooooo nooooo, nooo noooo-noooo noooooo; noo noooooo

of a bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse. And what with the standing
no n nooooooo noooo noo n nooooooo noooo. Noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo

spectacle of the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous
noooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo Nooo, noo noo nooooooooo nooooooooo

visitations of these three savages, Dough-Boy's whole life was one
noooooooooo no noooo noooo noooooo, Noooo-Noo'n noooo nooo noo noo

continual lip-quiver. Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished
noooooooo noo-nooooo. Nooooooo, noooo nooooo noo noooooooooo noooooooo

with all things they demanded, he would escape from their clutches into
nooo noo nooooo nooo nooooooo, no noooo nooooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo

his little pantry adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the
noo nooooo nooooo noooooooo, noo noooooooo nooo noo no nooo noooooo noo

blinds of its door, till all was over.
nooooo no noo nooo, nooo noo noo nooo.




It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposing
No noo n noooo no noo Nooooooo nooooo nooo noooooo Nooooooo, nooooooo

his filed teeth to the Indian's: crosswise to them, Daggoo seated on the
noo noooo noooo no noo Nooooo'n: noooooooo no nooo, Nooooo nooooo no noo

floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the low
noooo, noo n noooo noooo nooo noooooo noo nooooo-nooooo nooo no noo noo

carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the low cabin
nooooooo; no noooo nooooo no noo nooooooo noooo, nooooo noo noo noooo

framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in a
noooooooo no noooo, no nooo no Noooooo nooooooo nooo noooooooo no n

ship. But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious,
nooo. Noo noo noo nooo, noo noooo noooo noo noooooooooo nooooooooo,

not to say dainty. It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively
noo no noo nooooo. No nooooo nooooo nooooooo nooo no nooo noooooooooooo

small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad,
noooo noooooooo no noooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooooooo noooooo no noooo,

baronial, and superb a person. But, doubtless, this noble savage fed
nooooooo, noo nooooo n nooooo. Noo, noooooooo, nooo noooo nooooo noo

strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air; and through his
nooooo noo noooo nooo no noo noooooooo noooooo no noo; noo noooooo noo

dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds. Not by
noooooo nooooooo noooooo no noo noooooo nooo no noo nooooo. Noo no

beef or by bread, are giants made or nourished. But Queequeg, he had a
nooo no no noooo, noo nooooo nooo no noooooooo. Noo Nooooooo, no noo n

mortal, barbaric smack of the lip in eating--an ugly sound enough--so
nooooo, nooooooo noooo no noo noo no nooooo--no nooo noooo nooooo--no

much so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether
nooo no, nooo noo noooooooo Noooo-Noo nooooo nooooo no noo noooooo

any marks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms. And when he would hear
noo noooo no noooo nooooo no noo noo nooo nooo. Noo nooo no noooo nooo

Tashtego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might be
Nooooooo noooooo noo noo noo no noooooo noooooo, nooo noo noooo noooo no

picked, the simple-witted steward all but shattered the crockery hanging
nooooo, noo nooooo-nooooo noooooo noo noo noooooooo noo nooooooo noooooo

round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the palsy. Nor did the
noooo noo no noo nooooo, no noo nooooo nooo no noo noooo. Noo noo noo

whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, for their
noooooooo noooo noo noooooooooo noooooo no noooo noooooo, noo noooo

lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner, they
nooooo noo noooo noooooo; noo nooo noooo nooooooooo, no nooooo, nooo

would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did not at
noooo nooooooooooooo noooooo noooo nooooo; nooo noooooo noooo noo noo no

all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy. How could he forget that in his
noo nooo no nooooooooooo nooo Noooo-Noo. Noo noooo no nooooo nooo no noo

Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some
Nooooo nooo, Nooooooo, noo noo, nooo noooooooo nooo nooo nooooo no nooo

murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy! hard fares the
noooooooo, noooooooo noooooooooooo. Nooo! Noooo-Noo! nooo noooo noo

white waiter who waits upon cannibals. Not a napkin should he carry on
noooo nooooo noo noooo nooo noooooooo. Noo n nooooo nooooo no noooo no

his arm, but a buckler. In good time, though, to his great delight,
noo noo, noo n noooooo. No nooo nooo, nooooo, no noo noooo noooooo,

the three salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous,
noo noooo nooo-noo nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooooo; no noo noooooooo,

fable-mongering ears, all their martial bones jingling in them at every
noooo-noooooooo nooo, noo noooo noooooo noooo nooooooo no nooo no noooo

step, like Moorish scimetars in scabbards.
nooo, nooo Noooooo noooooooo no noooooooo.




But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and nominally lived
Noo, nooooo noooo nooooooooo noooo no noo noooo, noo noooooooo noooo

there; still, being anything but sedentary in their habits, they were
noooo; noooo, noooo nooooooo noo noooooooo no noooo nooooo, nooo nooo

scarcely ever in it except at mealtimes, and just before sleeping-time,
nooooooo nooo no no nooooo no noooooooo, noo nooo nooooo nooooooo-nooo,

when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.
nooo nooo nooooo noooooo no no noooo noo nooooooo nooooooo.




In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale
No nooo noo nooooo, Nooo nooooo no noooooooo no nooo Nooooooo noooo

captains, who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights
nooooooo, noo, no n noo, nooooo noooooo no noo noooooo nooo no nooooo

the ship's cabin belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that
noo nooo'n noooo noooooo no nooo; noo nooo no no no nooooooo noooo nooo

anybody else is, at any time, permitted there. So that, in real truth,
noooooo nooo no, no noo nooo, noooooooo noooo. No nooo, no nooo noooo,

the mates and harpooneers of the Pequod might more properly be said to
noo noooo noo noooooooooo no noo Nooooo noooo nooo nooooooo no nooo no

have lived out of the cabin than in it. For when they did enter it, it
nooo noooo noo no noo noooo nooo no no. Noo nooo nooo noo noooo no, no

was something as a street-door enters a house; turning inwards for
noo noooooooo no n nooooo-nooo nooooo n noooo; noooooo noooooo noo

a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as a permanent thing,
n nooooo, nooo no no nooooo noo noo nooo; noo, no n noooooooo noooo,

residing in the open air. Nor did they lose much hereby; in the cabin
nooooooo no noo nooo noo. Noo noo nooo nooo nooo nooooo; no noo noooo

was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible. Though nominally
noo no noooooooooooo; nooooooo, Nooo noo nooooooooooo. Nooooo noooooooo

included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it. He
nooooooo no noo nooooo no Noooooooooo, no noo noooo no noooo no no. No

lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled
noooo no noo noooo, no noo nooo no noo Nooooo Noooo noooo no noooooo

Missouri. And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan of
Nooooooo. Noo no nooo Nooooo noo Nooooo noo nooooooo, nooo nooo Noooo no

the woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the winter
noo noooo, noooooo noooooo no noo nooooo no n nooo, noooo noo noo nooooo

there, sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old age,
noooo, noooooo noo noo nooo; no, no noo noooooooo, noooooo noo noo,

Ahab's soul, shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the
Nooo'n nooo, nooo no no noo noooo noooo no noo nooo, noooo noo nooo noo

sullen paws of its gloom!
nooooo nooo no noo noooo!










CHAPTER 35. The Mast-Head.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooo-Nooo.







It was during the more pleasant weather, that in due rotation with the
No noo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo noooooo, nooo no noo nooooooo nooo noo

other seamen my first mast-head came round.
noooo nooooo no noooo nooo-nooo nooo noooo.




In most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost
No nooo Nooooooo nooooooo noo nooo-noooo noo nooooo nooooo

simultaneously with the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may
nooooooooooooo nooo noo nooooo'n noooooo noo nooo; nooo nooooo noo noo

have fifteen thousand miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper
nooo noooooo nooooooo noooo, noo nooo, no nooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo

cruising ground. And if, after a three, four, or five years' voyage
nooooooo nooooo. Noo no, noooo n noooo, nooo, no nooo noooo' nooooo

she is drawing nigh home with anything empty in her--say, an empty vial
noo no noooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo noooo no noo--noo, no noooo nooo

even--then, her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not till her
nooo--nooo, noo nooo-noooo noo nooo nooooo no noo nooo; noo noo nooo noo

skysail-poles sail in among the spires of the port, does she altogether
noooooo-noooo nooo no noooo noo nooooo no noo nooo, nooo noo nooooooooo

relinquish the hope of capturing one whale more.
nooooooooo noo nooo no noooooooo noo noooo nooo.




Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a very
Noo, no noo nooooooo no nooooooo nooo-noooo, nooooo no nooooo, no n nooo

ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here.
noooooo noo noooooooooo noo, noo no no nooo noooooo noooooooo nooo.

I take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old
N nooo no, nooo noo nooooooo nooooooo no nooo-noooo nooo noo noo

Egyptians; because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.
Noooooooo; noooooo, no noo no nooooooooo, N nooo nooo noooo no nooo.

For though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by
Noo nooooo noooo noooooooooo, noo nooooooo no Noooo, nooo noooooooo, no

their tower, have intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia,
noooo noooo, nooo nooooooo no nooo noo nooooooo nooo-nooo no noo Nooo,

or Africa either; yet (ere the final truck was put to it) as that great
no Nooooo nooooo; noo (noo noo noooo noooo noo noo no no) no nooo noooo

stone mast of theirs may be said to have gone by the board, in the dread
noooo nooo no nooooo noo no nooo no nooo nooo no noo noooo, no noo noooo

gale of God's wrath; therefore, we cannot give these Babel builders
nooo no Noo'n noooo; noooooooo, no nooooo nooo noooo Noooo nooooooo

priority over the Egyptians. And that the Egyptians were a nation of
nooooooo nooo noo Noooooooo. Noo nooo noo Noooooooo nooo n nooooo no

mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the general belief among
nooo-nooo nooooooo, no no noooooooo noooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo noooo

archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for astronomical
nooooooooooooo, nooo noo noooo nooooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooooooo

purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar stair-like
nooooooo: n nooooo nooooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo noooo-nooo

formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with prodigious
noooooooo no noo nooo noooo no noooo nooooooo; noooooo, nooo nooooooooo

long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to mount
nooo nooooooooo no noooo nooo, noooo noo noooooooooo nooo nooo no noooo

to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
no noo nooo, noo nooo noo noo noo noooo; nooo no noo nooo-nooo no n

modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight. In
nooooo nooo nooo noo noo n nooo, no n noooo nooo noooooo no noooo. No

Saint Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him
Noooo Nooooooo, noo nooooo Noooooooo nooooo no noo noooo, noo noooo noo

a lofty stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of
n noooo noooo nooooo no noo nooooo noo noooo noo noooo nooooo noooooo no

his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a
noo nooo no noo nooooo, nooooooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooo nooo n

tackle; in him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless
nooooo; no noo no nooo n nooooooooo nooooooo no n noooooooo

stander-of-mast-heads; who was not to be driven from his place by fogs
noooooo-no-nooo-noooo; noo noo noo no no nooooo nooo noo noooo no nooo

or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet; but valiantly facing everything out to
no nooooo, nooo, nooo, no noooo; noo noooooooo nooooo nooooooooo noo no

the last, literally died at his post. Of modern standers-of-mast-heads
noo nooo, noooooooo nooo no noo nooo. No nooooo nooooooo-no-nooo-noooo

we have but a lifeless set; mere stone, iron, and bronze men; who,
no nooo noo n nooooooo noo; nooo noooo, nooo, noo nooooo noo; noo,

though well capable of facing out a stiff gale, are still entirely
nooooo nooo noooooo no nooooo noo n noooo nooo, noo noooo nooooooo

incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering any strange
noooooooooo no noo nooooooo no noooooo noo nooo noooooooooo noo noooooo

sight. There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of Vendome,
noooo. Noooo no Nooooooo; noo, nooo noo noo no noo nooooo no Noooooo,

stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air;
nooooo nooo nooo nooooo, nooo noo noooooo noo noooo nooo no noo noo;

careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis
nooooooo, noo, noo noooo noo noooo noooo; noooooo Noooo Nooooooo, Noooo

Blanc, or Louis the Devil. Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on
Noooo, no Noooo noo Noooo. Noooo Nooooooooo, noo, nooooo nooo noooo no

his towering main-mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules' pillars,
noo nooooooo nooo-nooo no Noooooooo, noo nooo noo no Nooooooo' noooooo,

his column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals
noo nooooo noooo nooo noooo no noooo nooooooo nooooo noooo noo noooooo

will go. Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his
nooo no. Noooooo Nooooo, nooo, no n noooooo no noo-noooo, nooooo noo

mast-head in Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that
nooo-nooo no Noooooooo Nooooo; noo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo no nooo

London smoke, token is yet given that a hidden hero is there; for
Nooooo noooo, noooo no noo noooo nooo n nooooo nooo no noooo; noo

where there is smoke, must be fire. But neither great Washington, nor
noooo noooo no noooo, nooo no nooo. Noo noooooo noooo Nooooooooo, noo

Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a single hail from below, however
Nooooooo, noo Nooooo, nooo nooooo n nooooo nooo nooo noooo, noooooo

madly invoked to befriend by their counsels the distracted decks
noooo noooooo no nooooooo no noooo nooooooo noo nooooooooo noooo

upon which they gaze; however it may be surmised, that their spirits
nooo noooo nooo nooo; noooooo no noo no nooooooo, nooo noooo noooooo

penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what shoals
noooooooo noooooo noo noooo nooo no noo nooooo, noo nooooo nooo nooooo

and what rocks must be shunned.
noo nooo noooo nooo no noooooo.




It may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect the mast-head
No noo nooo noooooooooooo no nooooo no noo noooooo noo nooo-nooo

standers of the land with those of the sea; but that in truth it is
nooooooo no noo nooo nooo noooo no noo noo; noo nooo no noooo no no

not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed Macy, the sole
noo no, no noooooo noooooo no no nooo noo noooo Nooo Nooo, noo nooo

historian of Nantucket, stands accountable. The worthy Obed tells us,
noooooooo no Noooooooo, nooooo noooooooooo. Noo nooooo Nooo noooo no,

that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were regularly
nooo no noo noooo noooo no noo noooo noooooo, noo noooo nooo noooooooo

launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected lofty
nooooooo no noooooo no noo nooo, noo nooooo no nooo nooooo noooooo noooo

spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means
noooo noooo noo noo-noooo, no noooo noo nooo-nooo nooooooo no noooo

of nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house. A few
no nooooo nooooo, noooooooo no noooo no nooooooo no n noo-noooo. N noo

years ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand,
noooo noo nooo nooo nooo noo noooooo no noo Noo nooooooo no Noo Noooooo,

who, upon descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh
noo, nooo noooooooo noo nooo, nooo nooooo no noo noooo-nooooo noooo nooo

the beach. But this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the
noo noooo. Noo nooo nooooo noo noo nooooo nooooooo; nooo no nooo no noo

one proper mast-head, that of a whale-ship at sea. The three mast-heads
noo nooooo nooo-nooo, nooo no n noooo-nooo no noo. Noo noooo nooo-noooo

are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the seamen taking their
noo nooo nooooo nooo noo-nooo no noo-noo; noo nooooo nooooo noooo

regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other every two
noooooo noooo (no no noo nooo), noo noooooooo nooo noooo noooo noo

hours. In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly pleasant
noooo. No noo nooooo noooooo no noo noooooo no no noooooooooo nooooooo

the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful. There
noo nooo-nooo; noo, no n nooooo nooooooooo noo no no nooooooooo. Noooo

you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the
noo noooo, n noooooo nooo noooo noo nooooo noooo, nooooooo noooo noo

deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and
nooo, no no noo noooo nooo nooooooo nooooo, noooo noooooo noo noo

between your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even
noooooo nooo nooo, no no nooo, nooo noo nooooo nooooooo no noo noo, nooo

as ships once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old
no noooo nooo nooooo noooooo noo noooo no noo nooooo Nooooooo no noo

Rhodes. There you stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with
Nooooo. Noooo noo noooo, nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo no noo noo, nooo

nothing ruffled but the waves. The tranced ship indolently rolls; the
noooooo noooooo noo noo noooo. Noo noooooo nooo nooooooooo noooo; noo

drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you into languor. For the
nooooo noooo noooo nooo; nooooooooo nooooooo noo nooo noooooo. Noo noo

most part, in this tropic whaling life, a sublime uneventfulness invests
nooo nooo, no nooo nooooo noooooo nooo, n noooooo nooooooooooooo noooooo

you; you hear no news; read no gazettes; extras with startling accounts
noo; noo nooo no nooo; nooo no nooooooo; nooooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo

of commonplaces never delude you into unnecessary excitements; you hear
no nooooooooooo noooo nooooo noo nooo noooooooooo noooooooooo; noo nooo

of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt securities; fall of stocks; are
no no nooooooo noooooooooo; nooooooo nooooooooo; nooo no nooooo; noo

never troubled with the thought of what you shall have for dinner--for
noooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo no nooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooo--noo

all your meals for three years and more are snugly stowed in casks, and
noo nooo noooo noo noooo noooo noo nooo noo nooooo nooooo no noooo, noo

your bill of fare is immutable.
nooo nooo no nooo no noooooooo.




In one of those southern whalesmen, on a long three or four years'
No noo no noooo nooooooo noooooooo, no n nooo noooo no nooo noooo'

voyage, as often happens, the sum of the various hours you spend at the
nooooo, no noooo noooooo, noo noo no noo noooooo noooo noo noooo no noo

mast-head would amount to several entire months. And it is much to be
nooo-nooo noooo nooooo no noooooo nooooo nooooo. Noo no no nooo no no

deplored that the place to which you devote so considerable a portion
nooooooo nooo noo noooo no noooo noo nooooo no nooooooooooo n noooooo

of the whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly destitute
no noo noooo nooo no nooo noooooo nooo, nooooo no no noooo noooooooo

of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted to breed a
no nooooooo noooooooooo no n nooo nooooooooooooo, no noooooo no noooo n

comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a hammock,
noooooooooo noooooooo no noooooo, nooo no nooooooo no n noo, n noooooo,

a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those small
n nooooo, n nooooo noo, n nooooo, n noooo, no noo noooo no noooo noooo

and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves. Your
noo nooo nooooooooooo no noooo noo noooooooooo noooooo nooooooooo. Nooo

most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you
nooo noooo noooo no noooo no noo nooo no noo n' noooooo-nooo, noooo noo

stand upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called
noooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooo (nooooo nooooooo no nooooooo) nooooo

the t' gallant cross-trees. Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner
noo n' noooooo noooo-noooo. Nooo, nooooo noooo no noo noo, noo nooooooo

feels about as cosy as he would standing on a bull's horns. To be sure,
noooo noooo no nooo no no noooo nooooooo no n nooo'n noooo. No no nooo,

in cold weather you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of
no nooo noooooo noo noo noooo nooo noooo noooo nooo noo, no noo noooo no

a watch-coat; but properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more
n noooo-nooo; noo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo noooo-nooo no no nooo

of a house than the unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside of its
no n noooo nooo noo nooooo nooo; noo no noo nooo no noooo nooooo no noo

fleshy tabernacle, and cannot freely move about in it, nor even move out
nooooo nooooooooo, noo nooooo nooooo nooo noooo no no, noo nooo nooo noo

of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim
no no, noooooo noooooo noooo nooo no noooooooo (nooo no nooooooo noooooo

crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of
nooooooo noo noooo Nooo no nooooo); no n noooo-nooo no noo no nooo no

a house as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you. You
n noooo no no no n nooo nooooooo, no nooooooooo nooo nooooooo noo. Noo

cannot put a shelf or chest of drawers in your body, and no more can you
nooooo noo n noooo no noooo no noooooo no nooo nooo, noo no nooo noo noo

make a convenient closet of your watch-coat.
nooo n nooooooooo nooooo no nooo noooo-nooo.




Concerning all this, it is much to be deplored that the mast-heads of a
Nooooooooo noo nooo, no no nooo no no nooooooo nooo noo nooo-noooo no n

southern whale ship are unprovided with those enviable little tents
nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooooooooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooooo noooo

or pulpits, called CROW'S-NESTS, in which the look-outs of a Greenland
no noooooo, nooooo NOOO'N-NOOOO, no noooo noo nooo-nooo no n Noooooooo

whaler are protected from the inclement weather of the frozen seas. In
nooooo noo noooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo nooo. No

the fireside narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled "A Voyage among the
noo nooooooo noooooooo no Noooooo Noooo, nooooooo "N Nooooo noooo noo

Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally for the
Nooooooo, no noooo no noo Noooooooo Noooo, noo nooooooooooo noo noo

re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland;" in
no-noooooooo no noo Nooo Noooooooo Nooooooo no Noo Noooooooo;" no

this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with
nooo noooooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo no nooo-noooo noo noooooooo nooo

a charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented
n nooooooooo nooooooooooooo noooooo no noo nooo nooooooo nooooooo

CROW'S-NEST of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good
NOOO'N-NOOO no noo Noooooo, noooo noo noo nooo no Noooooo Noooo'n nooo

craft. He called it the SLEET'S CROW'S-NEST, in honour of himself; he
noooo. No nooooo no noo NOOOO'N NOOO'N-NOOO, no nooooo no noooooo; no

being the original inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous
noooo noo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo nooo noo nooooooooo

false delicacy, and holding that if we call our own children after our
noooo nooooooo, noo noooooo nooo no no nooo noo noo nooooooo noooo noo

own names (we fathers being the original inventors and patentees), so
noo noooo (no noooooo noooo noo nooooooo noooooooo noo noooooooo), no

likewise should we denominate after ourselves any other apparatus we
nooooooo nooooo no nooooooooo noooo noooooooo noo noooo noooooooo no

may beget. In shape, the Sleet's crow's-nest is something like a large
noo noooo. No noooo, noo Noooo'n nooo'n-nooo no noooooooo nooo n noooo

tierce or pipe; it is open above, however, where it is furnished with
nooooo no nooo; no no nooo noooo, noooooo, noooo no no noooooooo nooo

a movable side-screen to keep to windward of your head in a hard gale.
n noooooo nooo-nooooo no nooo no nooooooo no nooo nooo no n nooo nooo.

Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you ascend into it through a
Noooo noooo no noo nooooo no noo nooo, noo nooooo nooo no noooooo n

little trap-hatch in the bottom. On the after side, or side next the
nooooo nooo-noooo no noo nooooo. No noo noooo nooo, no nooo nooo noo

stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker underneath for
noooo no noo nooo, no n noooooooooo nooo, nooo n nooooo nooooooooo noo

umbrellas, comforters, and coats. In front is a leather rack, in which
noooooooo, nooooooooo, noo noooo. No noooo no n noooooo nooo, no noooo

to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical
no nooo nooo nooooooo noooooo, nooo, noooooooo, noo noooo nooooooo

conveniences. When Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head in this
nooooooooooo. Nooo Noooooo Noooo no nooooo noooo noo nooo-nooo no nooo

crow's-nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him
nooo'n-nooo no noo, no noooo no nooo no nooooo noo n noooo nooo noo

(also fixed in the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for
(nooo noooo no noo nooo), nooooooo nooo n nooooo noooo noo nooo, noo

the purpose of popping off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns
noo noooooo no noooooo noo noo noooo noooooooo, no noooooo noo nooooooo

infesting those waters; for you cannot successfully shoot at them from
noooooooo noooo nooooo; noo noo nooooo nooooooooooo noooo no nooo nooo

the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon
noo nooo noooo no noo nooooooooo no noo noooo, noo no noooo nooo nooo

them is a very different thing. Now, it was plainly a labor of love
nooo no n nooo noooooooo noooo. Noo, no noo noooooo n noooo no nooo

for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does, all the little detailed
noo Noooooo Noooo no nooooooo, no no nooo, noo noo nooooo nooooooo

conveniences of his crow's-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many
nooooooooooo no noo nooo'n-nooo; noo nooooo no no nooooooo nooo nooo

of these, and though he treats us to a very scientific account of his
no noooo, noo nooooo no nooooo no no n nooo nooooooooo noooooo no noo

experiments in this crow's-nest, with a small compass he kept there for
noooooooooo no nooo nooo'n-nooo, nooo n noooo noooooo no nooo noooo noo

the purpose of counteracting the errors resulting from what is called
noo noooooo no noooooooooooo noo nooooo noooooooo nooo nooo no nooooo

the "local attraction" of all binnacle magnets; an error ascribable to
noo "noooo nooooooooo" no noo nooooooo noooooo; no noooo nooooooooo no

the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the ship's planks, and in the
noo nooooooooo nooooooo no noo nooo no noo nooo'n nooooo, noo no noo

Glacier's case, perhaps, to there having been so many broken-down
Noooooo'n nooo, noooooo, no noooo nooooo nooo no nooo nooooo-nooo

blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain is very
noooooooooo noooo noo nooo; N noo, nooo nooooo noo Noooooo no nooo

discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned "binnacle
nooooooo noo nooooooooo nooo, noo, noo noo noo noooooo "nooooooo

deviations," "azimuth compass observations," and "approximate errors,"
nooooooooo," "noooooo noooooo nooooooooooo," noo "noooooooooo nooooo,"

he knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was not so much immersed
no noooo nooo nooo, Noooooo Noooo, nooo no noo noo no nooo nooooooo

in those profound magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted
no noooo nooooooo nooooooo noooooooooo, no no nooo noooo noooooooo

occasionally towards that well replenished little case-bottle, so nicely
nooooooooooo noooooo nooo nooo noooooooooo nooooo nooo-nooooo, no nooooo

tucked in on one side of his crow's nest, within easy reach of his hand.
nooooo no no noo nooo no noo nooo'n nooo, nooooo nooo noooo no noo nooo.

Though, upon the whole, I greatly admire and even love the brave, the
Nooooo, nooo noo noooo, N noooooo nooooo noo nooo nooo noo noooo, noo

honest, and learned Captain; yet I take it very ill of him that he
nooooo, noo noooooo Noooooo; noo N nooo no nooo noo no noo nooo no

should so utterly ignore that case-bottle, seeing what a faithful friend
nooooo no noooooo nooooo nooo nooo-nooooo, nooooo nooo n nooooooo nooooo

and comforter it must have been, while with mittened fingers and hooded
noo noooooooo no nooo nooo nooo, noooo nooo nooooooo noooooo noo nooooo

head he was studying the mathematics aloft there in that bird's nest
nooo no noo nooooooo noo noooooooooo noooo noooo no nooo nooo'n nooo

within three or four perches of the pole.
nooooo noooo no nooo noooooo no noo nooo.




But if we Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as
Noo no no Nooooooo noooo-noooooo noo noo no nooooo nooooo noooo no

Captain Sleet and his Greenlandmen were; yet that disadvantage is
Noooooo Noooo noo noo Nooooooooooo nooo; noo nooo nooooooooooo no

greatly counter-balanced by the widely contrasting serenity of those
noooooo noooooo-nooooooo no noo nooooo noooooooooo nooooooo no noooo

seductive seas in which we South fishers mostly float. For one, I used
noooooooo nooo no noooo no Noooo noooooo nooooo noooo. Noo noo, N nooo

to lounge up the rigging very leisurely, resting in the top to have a
no nooooo no noo noooooo nooo noooooooo, noooooo no noo noo no nooo n

chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom I might find there;
nooo nooo Nooooooo, no noo noo nooo noo nooo nooo N noooo nooo noooo;

then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy leg over the
nooo noooooooo n nooooo noo noooooo, noo nooooooo n nooo noo nooo noo

top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures, and so at
noo-nooo nooo, nooo n noooooooooo nooo no noo nooooo nooooooo, noo no no

last mount to my ultimate destination.
nooo noooo no no nooooooo noooooooooo.




Let me make a clean breast of it here, and frankly admit that I kept but
Noo no nooo n noooo nooooo no no nooo, noo noooooo noooo nooo N nooo noo

sorry guard. With the problem of the universe revolving in me, how
noooo noooo. Nooo noo noooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo no no, noo

could I--being left completely to myself at such a thought-engendering
noooo N--noooo nooo nooooooooo no nooooo no nooo n noooooo-noooooooooo

altitude--how could I but lightly hold my obligations to observe all
nooooooo--noo noooo N noo noooooo nooo no noooooooooo no noooooo noo

whale-ships' standing orders, "Keep your weather eye open, and sing out
noooo-noooo' nooooooo nooooo, "Nooo nooo noooooo noo nooo, noo nooo noo

every time."
noooo nooo."




And let me in this place movingly admonish you, ye ship-owners of
Noo noo no no nooo noooo nooooooo nooooooo noo, no nooo-nooooo no

Nantucket! Beware of enlisting in your vigilant fisheries any lad with
Noooooooo! Nooooo no noooooooo no nooo nooooooo noooooooo noo noo nooo

lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable meditativeness; and who
nooo nooo noo nooooo noo; noooo no nooooooooooo nooooooooooooo; noo noo

offers to ship with the Phaedon instead of Bowditch in his head. Beware
nooooo no nooo nooo noo Noooooo noooooo no Nooooooo no noo nooo. Nooooo

of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before they can be
no nooo no noo, N noo; nooo nooooo nooo no nooo nooooo nooo noo no

killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten wakes
nooooo; noo nooo nooooo-nooo noooo Noooooooo nooo noo noo noo noooo

round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer. Nor
noooo noo noooo, noo noooo nooo noo noo nooo no noooo noo nooooo. Noo

are these monitions at all unneeded. For nowadays, the whale-fishery
noo noooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo. Noo nooooooo, noo noooo-noooooo

furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded
noooooooo no nooooo noo nooo nooooooo, nooooooooo, noo nooooo-nooooo

young men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking
noooo noo, noooooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo no noooo, noo noooooo

sentiment in tar and blubber. Childe Harold not unfrequently perches
noooooooo no noo noo noooooo. Nooooo Nooooo noo nooooooooooo noooooo

himself upon the mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and
noooooo nooo noo nooo-nooo no nooo nooooooo nooooooooooo noooo-nooo, noo

in moody phrase ejaculates:--
no noooo nooooo nooooooooo:--




"Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll! Ten thousand
"Nooo no, nooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo, nooo! Noo nooooooo

blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain."
noooooo-noooooo noooo nooo nooo no nooo."




Very often do the captains of such ships take those absent-minded
Nooo noooo no noo nooooooo no nooo noooo nooo noooo nooooo-nooooo

young philosophers to task, upbraiding them with not feeling sufficient
noooo nooooooooooo no nooo, nooooooooo nooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooooo

"interest" in the voyage; half-hinting that they are so hopelessly lost
"nooooooo" no noo nooooo; nooo-noooooo nooo nooo noo no nooooooooo nooo

to all honourable ambition, as that in their secret souls they would
no noo nooooooooo nooooooo, no nooo no noooo nooooo noooo nooo noooo

rather not see whales than otherwise. But all in vain; those young
nooooo noo noo nooooo nooo noooooooo. Noo noo no nooo; noooo noooo

Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
Nooooooooo nooo n nooooo nooo noooo nooooo no noooooooo; nooo noo

short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve? They have
noooo-noooooo; nooo noo, nooo, no nooooo noo nooooo noooo? Nooo nooo

left their opera-glasses at home.
nooo noooo noooo-noooooo no nooo.




"Why, thou monkey," said a harpooneer to one of these lads, "we've been
"Noo, nooo nooooo," nooo n nooooooooo no noo no noooo nooo, "no'no nooo

cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not raised a whale
nooooooo noo nooo nooo noooo noooo, noo nooo nooo noo nooooo n noooo

yet. Whales are scarce as hen's teeth whenever thou art up here."
noo. Nooooo noo nooooo no noo'n noooo nooooooo nooo noo no nooo."

Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
Noooooo nooo nooo; no noooooo noooo noooo nooo nooo nooooo no nooo no

the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of
noo noo noooooo; noo nooooo nooo nooo no noooo-nooo nooooooooooo no

vacant, unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending
nooooo, noooooooooo noooooo no nooo nooooo-nooooo noooo no noo nooooooo

cadence of waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity;
noooooo no noooo nooo nooooooo, nooo no nooo no noooo noo nooooooo;

takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep,
noooo noo nooooo noooo no noo nooo noo noo noooooo noooo no nooo nooo,

blue, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every
nooo, nooooooooo nooo, noooooooo noooooo noo nooooo; noo noooo

strange, half-seen, gliding, beautiful thing that eludes him; every
noooooo, nooo-nooo, noooooo, noooooooo noooo nooo nooooo noo; noooo

dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some undiscernible form, seems to him
noooo-nooooooooo, nooooooo noo no nooo noooooooooooo nooo, noooo no noo

the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by
noo nooooooooo no noooo noooooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooo no

continually flitting through it. In this enchanted mood, thy spirit ebbs
noooooooooo nooooooo noooooo no. No nooo noooooooo nooo, noo nooooo nooo

away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time and space; like
nooo no nooooo no nooo; noooooo nooooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo; nooo

Crammer's sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a part of every
Noooooo'n noooooooo Noooooooooo noooo, noooooo no nooo n nooo no noooo

shore the round globe over.
noooo noo noooo noooo nooo.




There is no life in thee, now, except that rocking life imparted by a
Noooo no no nooo no nooo, noo, nooooo nooo noooooo nooo nooooooo no n

gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed from the sea; by the sea, from
nooooo noooooo nooo; no noo, nooooooo nooo noo noo; no noo noo, nooo

the inscrutable tides of God. But while this sleep, this dream is on ye,
noo noooooooooo noooo no Noo. Noo noooo nooo noooo, nooo noooo no no no,

move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold at all; and your identity
nooo nooo nooo no nooo no nooo; nooo nooo nooo no noo; noo nooo nooooooo

comes back in horror. Over Descartian vortices you hover. And perhaps,
noooo nooo no nooooo. Nooo Nooooooooo nooooooo noo noooo. Noo noooooo,

at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one half-throttled shriek you
no noo-noo, no noo noooooo noooooo, nooo noo nooo-noooooooo nooooo noo

drop through that transparent air into the summer sea, no more to rise
nooo noooooo nooo noooooooooo noo nooo noo nooooo noo, no nooo no nooo

for ever. Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
noo nooo. Nooo no nooo, no Nooooooooo!










CHAPTER 36. The Quarter-Deck.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooo-Nooo.







(ENTER AHAB: THEN, ALL)
(NOOOO NOOO: NOOO, NOO)







It was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one
No noo noo n noooo noooo noooo noo nooooo no noo nooo, nooo noo

morning shortly after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the
noooooo noooooo noooo noooooooo, Nooo, no noo noo nooo, nooooooo noo

cabin-gangway to the deck. There most sea-captains usually walk at that
noooo-noooooo no noo nooo. Noooo nooo noo-nooooooo noooooo nooo no nooo

hour, as country gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the
nooo, no noooooo noooooooo, noooo noo nooo nooo, nooo n noo noooo no noo

garden.
nooooo.




Soon his steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old
Nooo noo nooooo, noooo nooooo noo noooo, no no noo noo no noooo noo noo

rounds, upon planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over
nooooo, nooo nooooo no nooooooo no noo noooo, nooo nooo nooo noo nooo

dented, like geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk. Did
nooooo, nooo nooooooooo nooooo, nooo noo nooooooo nooo no noo nooo. Noo

you fixedly gaze, too, upon that ribbed and dented brow; there also,
noo noooooo nooo, noo, nooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo; noooo nooo,

you would see still stranger foot-prints--the foot-prints of his one
noo noooo noo noooo nooooooo nooo-nooooo--noo nooo-nooooo no noo noo

unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.
nooooooooo, nooo-nooooo noooooo.




But on the occasion in question, those dents looked deeper, even as
Noo no noo nooooooo no nooooooo, noooo noooo nooooo nooooo, nooo no

his nervous step that morning left a deeper mark. And, so full of his
noo noooooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo n nooooo nooo. Noo, no nooo no noo

thought was Ahab, that at every uniform turn that he made, now at the
noooooo noo Nooo, nooo no noooo noooooo nooo nooo no nooo, noo no noo

main-mast and now at the binnacle, you could almost see that thought
nooo-nooo noo noo no noo nooooooo, noo noooo nooooo noo nooo noooooo

turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he paced; so completely
nooo no noo no no nooooo, noo nooo no noo no no noooo; no nooooooooo

possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the inward mould of every
nooooooooo noo, nooooo, nooo no noo noo nooooo noo nooooo noooo no noooo

outer movement.
noooo nooooooo.




"D'ye mark him, Flask?" whispered Stubb; "the chick that's in him pecks
"N'no nooo noo, Noooo?" noooooooo Noooo; "noo noooo nooo'n no noo noooo

the shell. 'Twill soon be out."
noo noooo. 'Noooo nooo no noo."




The hours wore on;--Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the
Noo noooo nooo no;--Nooo noo nooo no nooooo noo noooo; nooo, nooooo noo

deck, with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.
nooo, nooo noo nooo noooooo noooooo no noooooo no noo nooooo.




It drew near the close of day. Suddenly he came to a halt by the
No nooo nooo noo noooo no noo. Nooooooo no nooo no n nooo no noo

bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into the auger-hole there, and with
nooooooo, noo noooooooo noo nooo noo nooo noo noooo-nooo noooo, noo nooo

one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck to send everybody aft.
noo nooo nooooooo n nooooo, no noooooo Nooooooo no nooo noooooooo noo.




"Sir!" said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or never given on
"Noo!" nooo noo nooo, nooooooooo no no noooo nooooo no noooo noooo no

ship-board except in some extraordinary case.
nooo-noooo nooooo no nooo noooooooooooo nooo.




"Send everybody aft," repeated Ahab. "Mast-heads, there! come down!"
"Nooo noooooooo noo," nooooooo Nooo. "Nooo-noooo, noooo! nooo nooo!"




When the entire ship's company were assembled, and with curious and not
Nooo noo nooooo nooo'n noooooo nooo noooooooo, noo nooo noooooo noo noo

wholly unapprehensive faces, were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike
nooooo nooooooooooooo noooo, nooo nooooo noo, noo no nooooo noo nooooo

the weather horizon when a storm is coming up, Ahab, after rapidly
noo noooooo noooooo nooo n noooo no nooooo no, Nooo, noooo noooooo

glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting his eyes among the crew,
nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo noooooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo,

started from his standpoint; and as though not a soul were nigh him
noooooo nooo noo nooooooooo; noo no nooooo noo n nooo nooo nooo noo

resumed his heavy turns upon the deck. With bent head and half-slouched
noooooo noo noooo noooo nooo noo nooo. Nooo nooo nooo noo nooo-nooooooo

hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering among
noo no noooooooo no nooo, noooooooo no noo noooooooo nooooooooo noooo

the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
noo noo; nooo Noooo nooooooooo noooooooo no Noooo, nooo Nooo nooo nooo

summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat. But
nooooooo nooo noooo noo noo noooooo no nooooooooo n nooooooooo nooo. Noo

this did not last long. Vehemently pausing, he cried:--
nooo noo noo nooo nooo. Nooooooooo noooooo, no noooo:--




"What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?"
"Nooo no no no nooo no noo n noooo, noo?"




"Sing out for him!" was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed
"Nooo noo noo noo!" noo noo noooooooo noooooooo nooo n noooo no noooooo

voices.
nooooo.




"Good!" cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the
"Nooo!" noooo Nooo, nooo n nooo nooooooo no noo noooo; noooooooo noo

hearty animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically
nooooo noooooooo nooo noooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo noo no nooooooooooo

thrown them.
nooooo nooo.




"And what do ye next, men?"
"Noo nooo no no nooo, noo?"




"Lower away, and after him!"
"Noooo nooo, noo noooo noo!"




"And what tune is it ye pull to, men?"
"Noo nooo nooo no no no nooo no, noo?"




"A dead whale or a stove boat!"
"N nooo noooo no n noooo nooo!"




More and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew the
Nooo noo nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo nooo noo noooooooo, nooo noo

countenance of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began
noooooooooo no noo noo noo no noooo noooo; noooo noo nooooooo noooo

to gaze curiously at each other, as if marvelling how it was that they
no nooo noooooooo no nooo noooo, no no nooooooooo noo no noo nooo nooo

themselves became so excited at such seemingly purposeless questions.
nooooooooo nooooo no noooooo no nooo noooooooo noooooooooo noooooooo.




But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-revolving in his
Noo, nooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo, no Nooo, noo nooo-noooooooo no noo

pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud, and tightly, almost
noooo-nooo, nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo no n nooooo, noo noooooo, nooooo

convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus:--
nooooooooooo nooooooo no, noooooooo nooo nooo:--




"All ye mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white
"Noo no nooo-noooooo nooo nooooo noo noooo no nooo nooooo noooo n noooo

whale. Look ye! d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?"--holding up a
noooo. Nooo no! n'no noo nooo Noooooo noooo no nooo?"--noooooo no n

broad bright coin to the sun--"it is a sixteen dollar piece, men. D'ye
noooo nooooo nooo no noo noo--"no no n noooooo nooooo noooo, noo. N'no

see it? Mr. Starbuck, hand me yon top-maul."
noo no? No. Nooooooo, nooo no noo noo-nooo."




While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without speaking, was
Noooo noo nooo noo noooooo noo nooooo, Nooo, noooooo nooooooo, noo

slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket, as if
nooooo noooooo noo nooo noooo noooooo noo nooooo no noo nooooo, no no

to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile
no nooooooo noo nooooo, noo noooooo noooo noo noooo noo noooooooo

lowly humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and
noooo noooooo no noooooo, noooooooo n noooo no noooooooo noooooo noo

inarticulate that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his
nooooooooooo nooo no nooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo no noo

vitality in him.
nooooooo no noo.




Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast
Noooooooo noo noo-nooo nooo Nooooooo, no nooooooo noooooo noo nooo-nooo

with the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the
nooo noo nooooo nooooooo no noo nooo, nooooooooo noo nooo nooo noo

other, and with a high raised voice exclaiming: "Whosoever of ye
noooo, noo nooo n nooo nooooo noooo nooooooooo: "Noooooooo no no

raises me a white-headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw;
nooooo no n noooo-nooooo noooo nooo n nooooooo nooo noo n noooooo noo;

whosoever of ye raises me that white-headed whale, with three holes
noooooooo no no nooooo no nooo noooo-nooooo noooo, nooo noooo noooo

punctured in his starboard fluke--look ye, whosoever of ye raises me
noooooooo no noo noooooooo noooo--nooo no, noooooooo no no nooooo no

that same white whale, he shall have this gold ounce, my boys!"
nooo nooo noooo noooo, no noooo nooo nooo nooo noooo, no nooo!"




"Huzza! huzza!" cried the seamen, as with swinging tarpaulins they
"Noooo! noooo!" noooo noo nooooo, no nooo nooooooo nooooooooo nooo

hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.
nooooo noo noo no noooooo noo nooo no noo nooo.




"It's a white whale, I say," resumed Ahab, as he threw down the topmaul:
"No'n n noooo noooo, N noo," noooooo Nooo, no no noooo nooo noo noooooo:

"a white whale. Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for white water;
"n noooo noooo. Nooo nooo nooo noo noo, noo; nooo noooo noo noooo noooo;

if ye see but a bubble, sing out."
no no noo noo n nooooo, nooo noo."




All this while Tashtego, Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even
Noo nooo noooo Nooooooo, Nooooo, noo Nooooooo noo nooooo no nooo nooo

more intense interest and surprise than the rest, and at the mention
nooo noooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo nooo noo nooo, noo no noo noooooo

of the wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each was
no noo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo noo nooo noo noooooo no no nooo noo

separately touched by some specific recollection.
nooooooooo noooooo no nooo nooooooo nooooooooooo.




"Captain Ahab," said Tashtego, "that white whale must be the same that
"Noooooo Nooo," nooo Nooooooo, "nooo noooo noooo nooo no noo nooo nooo

some call Moby Dick."
nooo nooo Nooo Nooo."




"Moby Dick?" shouted Ahab. "Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?"
"Nooo Nooo?" noooooo Nooo. "No no nooo noo noooo noooo nooo, Nooo?"




"Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?" said the
"Nooo no noo-nooo n nooooo noooooo, noo, nooooo no nooo nooo?" nooo noo

Gay-Header deliberately.
Noo-Nooooo nooooooooooo.




"And has he a curious spout, too," said Daggoo, "very bushy, even for a
"Noo noo no n noooooo noooo, noo," nooo Nooooo, "nooo noooo, nooo noo n

parmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?"
nooooooooo, noo nooooo noooo, Noooooo Nooo?"




"And he have one, two, three--oh! good many iron in him hide, too,
"Noo no nooo noo, noo, noooo--no! nooo nooo nooo no noo nooo, noo,

Captain," cried Queequeg disjointedly, "all twiske-tee be-twisk, like
Noooooo," noooo Nooooooo nooooooooooo, "noo nooooo-noo no-noooo, nooo

him--him--" faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and
noo--noo--" noooooooo nooo noo n nooo, noo nooooooo noo nooo noooo noo

round as though uncorking a bottle--"like him--him--"
noooo no nooooo noooooooo n nooooo--"nooo noo--noo--"




"Corkscrew!" cried Ahab, "aye, Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted
"Noooooooo!" noooo Nooo, "noo, Nooooooo, noo nooooooo noo noo noooooo

and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his spout is a big one, like a whole
noo nooooooo no noo; noo, Nooooo, noo noooo no n noo noo, nooo n noooo

shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the
noooo no noooo, noo noooo no n nooo no noo Noooooooo nooo noooo noo

great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he fan-tails like a
noooo nooooo noooo-nooooooo; noo, Nooooooo, noo no noo-noooo nooo n

split jib in a squall. Death and devils! men, it is Moby Dick ye have
noooo noo no n nooooo. Noooo noo nooooo! noo, no no Nooo Nooo no nooo

seen--Moby Dick--Moby Dick!"
nooo--Nooo Nooo--Nooo Nooo!"




"Captain Ahab," said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus far
"Noooooo Nooo," nooo Nooooooo, noo, nooo Noooo noo Noooo, noo nooo noo

been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemed
nooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo, noo no nooo nooooo

struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder. "Captain
nooooo nooo n noooooo noooo nooooooo noooooooo noo noo nooooo. "Noooooo

Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby Dick that took off
Nooo, N nooo noooo no Nooo Nooo--noo no noo noo Nooo Nooo nooo nooo noo

thy leg?"
noo noo?"




"Who told thee that?" cried Ahab; then pausing, "Aye, Starbuck; aye, my
"Noo nooo nooo nooo?" noooo Nooo; nooo noooooo, "Noo, Nooooooo; noo, no

hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Dick that
nooooooo noo noooo; no noo Nooo Nooo nooo noooooooo no; Nooo Nooo nooo

brought me to this dead stump I stand on now. Aye, aye," he shouted with
noooooo no no nooo nooo noooo N noooo no noo. Noo, noo," no noooooo nooo

a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose;
n nooooooo, nooo, nooooo noo, nooo nooo no n noooo-nooooooo noooo;

"Aye, aye! it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a poor
"Noo, noo! no noo nooo nooooooo noooo noooo nooo nooooo no; nooo n nooo

pegging lubber of me for ever and a day!" Then tossing both arms, with
noooooo nooooo no no noo nooo noo n noo!" Nooo noooooo nooo nooo, nooo

measureless imprecations he shouted out: "Aye, aye! and I'll chase him
noooooooooo nooooooooooo no noooooo noo: "Noo, noo! noo N'no noooo noo

round Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom, and
noooo Nooo Nooo, noo noooo noo Nooo, noo noooo noo Nooooo Noooooooo, noo

round perdition's flames before I give him up. And this is what ye have
noooo noooooooo'n nooooo nooooo N nooo noo no. Noo nooo no nooo no nooo

shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land, and
noooooo noo, noo! no noooo nooo noooo noooo no nooo noooo no nooo, noo

over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.
nooo noo noooo no noooo, nooo no nooooo noooo noooo noo noooo noo noo.

What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye do look
Nooo noo no, noo, nooo no nooooo noooo no no, noo? N noooo no no nooo

brave."
noooo."




"Aye, aye!" shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the
"Noo, noo!" noooooo noo noooooooooo noo nooooo, noooooo nooooo no noo

excited old man: "A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for
noooooo noo noo: "N noooo noo noo noo noooo noooo; n noooo noooo noo

Moby Dick!"
Nooo Nooo!"




"God bless ye," he seemed to half sob and half shout. "God bless ye,
"Noo noooo no," no nooooo no nooo noo noo nooo noooo. "Noo noooo no,

men. Steward! go draw the great measure of grog. But what's this long
noo. Noooooo! no nooo noo noooo noooooo no nooo. Noo nooo'n nooo nooo

face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not chase the white whale? art not
nooo noooo, No. Nooooooo; nooo nooo noo noooo noo noooo noooo? noo noo

game for Moby Dick?"
nooo noo Nooo Nooo?"




"I am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain
"N no nooo noo noo noooooo noo, noo noo noo nooo no Noooo noo, Noooooo

Ahab, if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow; but I
Nooo, no no nooooo noooo no noo noo no noo nooooooo no nooooo; noo N

came here to hunt whales, not my commander's vengeance. How many barrels
nooo nooo no nooo nooooo, noo no noooooooo'n noooooooo. Noo nooo noooooo

will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab? it
nooo noo noooooooo noooo nooo nooo no nooo noooooo no, Noooooo Nooo? no

will not fetch thee much in our Nantucket market."
nooo noo noooo nooo nooo no noo Noooooooo nooooo."




"Nantucket market! Hoot! But come closer, Starbuck; thou requirest
"Noooooooo nooooo! Nooo! Noo nooo nooooo, Nooooooo; nooo noooooooo

a little lower layer. If money's to be the measurer, man, and the
n nooooo noooo noooo. No noooo'n no no noo nooooooo, noo, noo noo

accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by
noooooooooo nooo nooooooo noooo noooo nooooooo-noooo noo noooo, no

girdling it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, let
nooooooo no nooo noooooo, noo no noooo noooo noooo no no nooo; nooo, noo

me tell thee, that my vengeance will fetch a great premium HERE!"
no nooo nooo, nooo no noooooooo nooo noooo n noooo noooooo NOOO!"




"He smites his chest," whispered Stubb, "what's that for? methinks it
"No nooooo noo noooo," noooooooo Noooo, "nooo'n nooo noo? nooooooo no

rings most vast, but hollow."
noooo nooo nooo, noo nooooo."




"Vengeance on a dumb brute!" cried Starbuck, "that simply smote thee
"Noooooooo no n nooo noooo!" noooo Nooooooo, "nooo nooooo noooo nooo

from blindest instinct! Madness! To be enraged with a dumb thing,
nooo nooooooo nooooooo! Noooooo! No no noooooo nooo n nooo noooo,

Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous."
Noooooo Nooo, noooo noooooooooo."




"Hark ye yet again--the little lower layer. All visible objects, man,
"Nooo no noo noooo--noo nooooo noooo noooo. Noo noooooo noooooo, noo,

are but as pasteboard masks. But in each event--in the living act, the
noo noo no nooooooooo noooo. Noo no nooo noooo--no noo nooooo noo, noo

undoubted deed--there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth
noooooooo nooo--noooo, nooo noooooo noo noooo noooooooo noooo nooo noooo

the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If man
noo noooooooo no noo nooooooo nooo nooooo noo noooooooooo nooo. No noo

will strike, strike through the mask! How can the prisoner reach outside
nooo nooooo, nooooo noooooo noo nooo! Noo noo noo nooooooo noooo noooooo

except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white whale is that
nooooo no noooooooo noooooo noo nooo? No no, noo noooo noooo no nooo

wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes I think there's naught beyond. But
nooo, nooooo nooo no no. Noooooooo N noooo noooo'n nooooo nooooo. Noo

'tis enough. He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him outrageous strength,
'noo nooooo. No noooo no; no noooo no; N noo no noo nooooooooo nooooooo,

with an inscrutable malice sinewing it. That inscrutable thing is
nooo no noooooooooo nooooo nooooooo no. Nooo noooooooooo noooo no

chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent, or be the white whale
noooooo nooo N nooo; noo no noo noooo noooo noooo, no no noo noooo noooo

principal, I will wreak that hate upon him. Talk not to me of blasphemy,
noooooooo, N nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noo. Nooo noo no no no noooooooo,

man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me. For could the sun do that,
noo; N'n nooooo noo noo no no nooooooo no. Noo noooo noo noo no nooo,

then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair play
nooo noooo N no noo noooo; noooo noooo no nooo n nooo no nooo nooo

herein, jealousy presiding over all creations. But not my master, man,
nooooo, nooooooo noooooooo nooo noo noooooooo. Noo noo no nooooo, noo,

is even that fair play. Who's over me? Truth hath no confines. Take off
no nooo nooo nooo nooo. Noo'n nooo no? Noooo nooo no nooooooo. Nooo noo

thine eye! more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish
noooo noo! nooo noooooooooo nooo nooooo' nooooooo no n noooooo

stare! So, so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to
noooo! No, no; nooo noooooooo noo nooooo; no nooo noo nooooo nooo no

anger-glow. But look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing
noooo-nooo. Noo nooo no, Nooooooo, nooo no nooo no nooo, nooo noooo

unsays itself. There are men from whom warm words are small indignity. I
nooooo nooooo. Noooo noo noo nooo nooo nooo noooo noo noooo noooooooo. N

meant not to incense thee. Let it go. Look! see yonder Turkish cheeks of
noooo noo no noooooo nooo. Noo no no. Nooo! noo nooooo Noooooo nooooo no

spotted tawn--living, breathing pictures painted by the sun. The Pagan
noooooo nooo--nooooo, noooooooo nooooooo noooooo no noo noo. Noo Noooo

leopards--the unrecking and unworshipping things, that live; and seek,
nooooooo--noo noooooooo noo noooooooooooo nooooo, nooo nooo; noo nooo,

and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel! The crew, man, the
noo nooo no noooooo noo noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo! Noo nooo, noo, noo

crew! Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this matter of the whale?
nooo! Noo nooo noo noo noo noo nooo Nooo, no nooo nooooo no noo noooo?

See Stubb! he laughs! See yonder Chilian! he snorts to think of it.
Noo Noooo! no nooooo! Noo nooooo Noooooo! no nooooo no noooo no no.

Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost sapling cannot,
Noooo no nooo noo noooooo noooooooo, noo noo nooo noooooo nooooo,

Starbuck! And what is it? Reckon it. 'Tis but to help strike a fin; no
Nooooooo! Noo nooo no no? Nooooo no. 'Noo noo no nooo nooooo n noo; no

wondrous feat for Starbuck. What is it more? From this one poor hunt,
nooooooo nooo noo Nooooooo. Nooo no no nooo? Nooo nooo noo nooo nooo,

then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back,
nooo, noo nooo noooo noo no noo Noooooooo, nooooo no nooo noo nooo nooo,

when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone? Ah! constrainings
nooo noooo nooooooo-nooo noo nooooooo n noooooooo? No! noooooooooooo

seize thee; I see! the billow lifts thee! Speak, but speak!--Aye, aye!
noooo nooo; N noo! noo nooooo noooo nooo! Noooo, noo noooo!--Noo, noo!

thy silence, then, THAT voices thee. (ASIDE) Something shot from my
noo noooooo, nooo, NOOO nooooo nooo. (NOOOO) Noooooooo nooo nooo no

dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs. Starbuck now is mine;
noooooo nooooooo, no noo noooooo no no noo noooo. Nooooooo noo no nooo;

cannot oppose me now, without rebellion."
nooooo nooooo no noo, noooooo noooooooo."




"God keep me!--keep us all!" murmured Starbuck, lowly.
"Noo nooo no!--nooo no noo!" nooooooo Nooooooo, noooo.




But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahab
Noo no noo noo no noo noooooooo, noooo nooooooooooo no noo nooo, Nooo

did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh from the
noo noo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooooooo; noo noo noo noo noooo nooo noo

hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage;
nooo; noo noo noo noooooooo nooooooooo no noo noooo no noo noooooo;

nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment
noo noo noo nooooo nooo no noo noooo noooooo noo noooo, no noo n nooooo

their hearts sank in. For again Starbuck's downcast eyes lighted up with
noooo nooooo nooo no. Noo noooo Nooooooo'n nooooooo nooo noooooo no nooo

the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died away; the winds
noo nooooooooooo no nooo; noo nooooooooooo noooo nooo nooo; noo noooo

blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as before. Ah,
nooo no; noo noooo nooooo noo; noo nooo nooooo noo nooooo no nooooo. No,

ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come? But
no noooooooooo noo nooooooo! noo nooo no noo nooo no nooo? Noo

rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows! Yet not so much
nooooo noo no noooooooooo nooo nooooooo, no noooooo! Noo noo no nooo

predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things
noooooooooo nooo noooooo, no noooooooooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo

within. For with little external to constrain us, the innermost
nooooo. Noo nooo nooooo nooooooo no noooooooo no, noo noooooooo

necessities in our being, these still drive us on.
noooooooooo no noo noooo, noooo noooo noooo no no.




"The measure! the measure!" cried Ahab.
"Noo noooooo! noo noooooo!" noooo Nooo.




Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he
Noooooooo noo nooooooo nooooo, noo noooooo no noo noooooooooo, no

ordered them to produce their weapons. Then ranging them before him near
noooooo nooo no noooooo noooo noooooo. Nooo noooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo

the capstan, with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates
noo noooooo, nooo noooo nooooooo no noooo noooo, noooo noo noooo noooo

stood at his side with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company
noooo no noo nooo nooo noooo nooooo, noo noo nooo no noo nooo'n noooooo

formed a circle round the group; he stood for an instant searchingly
nooooo n nooooo noooo noo noooo; no noooo noo no noooooo noooooooooo

eyeing every man of his crew. But those wild eyes met his, as the
nooooo noooo noo no noo nooo. Noo noooo nooo nooo noo noo, no noo

bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves meet the eye of their leader, ere
noooooooo nooo no noo noooooo nooooo nooo noo noo no noooo nooooo, noo

he rushes on at their head in the trail of the bison; but, alas! only to
no nooooo no no noooo nooo no noo noooo no noo noooo; noo, nooo! nooo no

fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.
nooo nooo noo nooooo noooo no noo Nooooo.




"Drink and pass!" he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the
"Noooo noo nooo!" no noooo, noooooo noo noooo noooooo nooooo no noo

nearest seaman. "The crew alone now drink. Round with it, round! Short
noooooo nooooo. "Noo nooo noooo noo noooo. Noooo nooo no, noooo! Noooo

draughts--long swallows, men; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof. So, so; it
nooooooo--nooo nooooooo, noo; 'noo noo no Noooo'n nooo. No, no; no

goes round excellently. It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the
nooo noooo noooooooooo. No nooooooooo no no; noooo noo no noo

serpent-snapping eye. Well done; almost drained. That way it went, this
noooooo-nooooooo noo. Nooo nooo; nooooo noooooo. Nooo noo no nooo, nooo

way it comes. Hand it me--here's a hollow! Men, ye seem the years; so
noo no noooo. Nooo no no--nooo'n n nooooo! Noo, no nooo noo noooo; no

brimming life is gulped and gone. Steward, refill!
nooooooo nooo no nooooo noo nooo. Noooooo, nooooo!




"Attend now, my braves. I have mustered ye all round this capstan; and
"Nooooo noo, no nooooo. N nooo nooooooo no noo noooo nooo noooooo; noo

ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers, stand there
no noooo, noooo no nooo nooo nooooo; noo no noooooooooo, noooo noooo

with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may in some
nooo nooo noooo; noo no, noooo nooooooo, nooo no no, nooo N noo no nooo

sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me. O men, you
nooo nooooo n noooo nooooo no no noooooooo noooooo nooooo no. N noo, noo

will yet see that--Ha! boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner. Hand
nooo noo noo nooo--No! noo, nooo nooo? noo noooooo nooo noo nooooo. Nooo

it me. Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, were't not thou St.
no no. Noo, noo, nooo nooooo noo noo nooooooo noooo, nooo'n noo nooo No.

Vitus' imp--away, thou ague!
Noooo' noo--nooo, nooo nooo!




"Advance, ye mates! Cross your lances full before me. Well done! Let
"Noooooo, no noooo! Noooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo no. Nooo nooo! Noo

me touch the axis." So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the
no noooo noo nooo." No nooooo, nooo nooooooo noo, no noooooo noo

three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing,
noooo noooo, noooooooo nooooo no noooo noooooo nooooo; noooo no noooo,

suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from
nooooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo nooo; noooooooo, nooooooo nooooooo nooo

Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask. It seemed as though, by some
Nooooooo no Noooo; nooo Noooo no Noooo. No nooooo no nooooo, no nooo

nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the
nooooooo, nooooooo nooooooo, no noooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo nooo noo

same fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic
nooo noooo noooooo noooooooooo nooooo noo Nooooo noo no noo noo nooooooo

life. The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic
nooo. Noo noooo noooo noooooo nooooo noo nooooo, noooooooo, noo nooooo

aspect. Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of
nooooo. Noooo noo Noooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo; noo nooooo noo no

Starbuck fell downright.
Nooooooo nooo noooooooo.




"In vain!" cried Ahab; "but, maybe, 'tis well. For did ye three but
"No nooo!" noooo Nooo; "noo, noooo, 'noo nooo. Noo noo no noooo noo

once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, THAT had
nooo nooo noo nooo-nooooo noooo, nooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo, NOOO noo

perhaps expired from out me. Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye
noooooo noooooo nooo noo no. Noooooooo, noo, no noooo nooo noooooo no

dead. Perchance ye need it not. Down lances! And now, ye mates, I do
nooo. Noooooooo no nooo no noo. Nooo nooooo! Noo noo, no noooo, N no

appoint ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen there--yon three
noooooo no noooo nooooooooo no no noooo noooo noooooo noooo--noo noooo

most honourable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers. Disdain
nooo nooooooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo, no noooooo noooooooooo. Noooooo

the task? What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using
noo nooo? Nooo, nooo noo noooo Nooo nooooo noo nooo no noooooo, noooo

his tiara for ewer? Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension, THAT
noo noooo noo nooo? No, no noooo noooooooo! nooo noo noooooooooooo, NOOO

shall bend ye to it. I do not order ye; ye will it. Cut your seizings
noooo nooo no no no. N no noo noooo no; no nooo no. Noo nooo nooooooo

and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!"
noo nooo noo noooo, no noooooooooo!"




Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the
Nooooooo noooooo noo noooo, noo noooo noooooooooo noo noooo nooo noo

detached iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs
nooooooo nooo nooo no noooo nooooooo, nooo noooo nooo nooo, nooo, noooo

up, before him.
no, nooooo noo.




"Stab me not with that keen steel! Cant them; cant them over! know ye
"Nooo no noo nooo nooo nooo noooo! Nooo nooo; nooo nooo nooo! nooo no

not the goblet end? Turn up the socket! So, so; now, ye cup-bearers,
noo noo nooooo noo? Nooo no noo nooooo! No, no; noo, no noo-noooooo,

advance. The irons! take them; hold them while I fill!" Forthwith,
noooooo. Noo noooo! nooo nooo; nooo nooo noooo N nooo!" Noooooooo,

slowly going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon
nooooo noooo nooo noo noooooo no noo noooo, no noooooo noo noooooo

sockets with the fiery waters from the pewter.
noooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo.




"Now, three to three, ye stand. Commend the murderous chalices! Bestow
"Noo, noooo no noooo, no noooo. Noooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo! Nooooo

them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league. Ha!
nooo, no noo noo noo nooo noooooo no nooo nooooooooooo nooooo. No!

Starbuck! but the deed is done! Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit upon
Nooooooo! noo noo nooo no nooo! Noo noooooooo noo noo noooo no noo nooo

it. Drink, ye harpooneers! drink and swear, ye men that man the deathful
no. Noooo, no noooooooooo! noooo noo noooo, no noo nooo noo noo nooooooo

whaleboat's bow--Death to Moby Dick! God hunt us all, if we do not hunt
noooooooo'n noo--Noooo no Nooo Nooo! Noo nooo no noo, no no no noo nooo

Moby Dick to his death!" The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted;
Nooo Nooo no noo noooo!" Noo nooo, nooooo noooo noooooo nooo nooooo;

and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits were
noo no noooo noo nooooooooooo noooooo noo noooo noooo, noo noooooo nooo

simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss. Starbuck paled, and turned, and
nooooooooooooo noooooo nooo nooo n nooo. Nooooooo noooo, noo nooooo, noo

shivered. Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds
nooooooo. Nooo nooo, noo noooooo, noo noooooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo

among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all
noooo noo noooooo nooo; nooo, nooooo noo nooo nooo no nooo, nooo noo

dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.
noooooooo; noo Nooo noooooo nooooo noo noooo.










CHAPTER 37. Sunset.
NOOOOOO no. Nooooo.







THE CABIN; BY THE STERN WINDOWS; AHAB SITTING ALONE, AND GAZING OUT.
NOO NOOOO; NO NOO NOOOO NOOOOOO; NOOO NOOOOOO NOOOO, NOO NOOOOO NOO.







I leave a white and turbid wake; pale waters, paler cheeks, where'er I
N noooo n noooo noo nooooo nooo; nooo nooooo, noooo nooooo, noooo'no N

sail. The envious billows sidelong swell to whelm my track; let them;
nooo. Noo noooooo noooooo nooooooo noooo no noooo no noooo; noo nooo;

but first I pass.
noo noooo N nooo.




Yonder, by ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine.
Nooooo, no nooo-nooooooo nooooo'n noo, noo nooo noooo noooo nooo nooo.

The gold brow plumbs the blue. The diver sun--slow dived from noon--goes
Noo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooo. Noo noooo noo--nooo noooo nooo nooo--nooo

down; my soul mounts up! she wearies with her endless hill. Is, then,
nooo; no nooo nooooo no! noo noooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo. No, nooo,

the crown too heavy that I wear? this Iron Crown of Lombardy. Yet is
noo noooo noo noooo nooo N nooo? nooo Nooo Noooo no Nooooooo. Noo no

it bright with many a gem; I the wearer, see not its far flashings; but
no nooooo nooo nooo n noo; N noo nooooo, noo noo noo noo noooooooo; noo

darkly feel that I wear that, that dazzlingly confounds. 'Tis iron--that
nooooo nooo nooo N nooo nooo, nooo nooooooooo noooooooo. 'Noo nooo--nooo

I know--not gold. 'Tis split, too--that I feel; the jagged edge galls
N nooo--noo nooo. 'Noo noooo, noo--nooo N nooo; noo nooooo nooo noooo

me so, my brain seems to beat against the solid metal; aye, steel skull,
no no, no noooo noooo no nooo noooooo noo noooo noooo; noo, noooo noooo,

mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain-battering fight!
nooo; noo nooo nooo noooo no nooooo no noo nooo noooo-noooooooo noooo!




Dry heat upon my brow? Oh! time was, when as the sunrise nobly spurred
Noo nooo nooo no nooo? No! nooo noo, nooo no noo noooooo noooo noooooo

me, so the sunset soothed. No more. This lovely light, it lights not me;
no, no noo nooooo noooooo. No nooo. Nooo nooooo noooo, no nooooo noo no;

all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne'er enjoy. Gifted with
noo nooooooooo no noooooo no no, noooo N noo no'no noooo. Nooooo nooo

the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power; damned, most subtly
noo nooo nooooooooo, N nooo noo noo, nooooooo noooo; nooooo, nooo nooooo

and most malignantly! damned in the midst of Paradise! Good night--good
noo nooo noooooooooo! nooooo no noo noooo no Nooooooo! Nooo noooo--nooo

night! (WAVING HIS HAND, HE MOVES FROM THE WINDOW.)
noooo! (NOOOOO NOO NOOO, NO NOOOO NOOO NOO NOOOOO.)




'Twas not so hard a task. I thought to find one stubborn, at the least;
'Nooo noo no nooo n nooo. N noooooo no nooo noo nooooooo, no noo noooo;

but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and they
noo no noo nooooo nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo noooooo nooooo, noo nooo

revolve. Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all
noooooo. No, no noo nooo, nooo no nooo noo-noooo no nooooo, nooo noo

stand before me; and I their match. Oh, hard! that to fire others, the
noooo nooooo no; noo N noooo noooo. No, nooo! nooo no nooo nooooo, noo

match itself must needs be wasting! What I've dared, I've willed; and
noooo nooooo nooo noooo no noooooo! Nooo N'no noooo, N'no nooooo; noo

what I've willed, I'll do! They think me mad--Starbuck does; but I'm
nooo N'no nooooo, N'no no! Nooo noooo no noo--Nooooooo nooo; noo N'n

demoniac, I am madness maddened! That wild madness that's only calm
nooooooo, N no noooooo nooooooo! Nooo nooo noooooo nooo'n nooo nooo

to comprehend itself! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered;
no nooooooooo nooooo! Noo nooooooo noo nooo N nooooo no noooooooooo;

and--Aye! I lost this leg. I now prophesy that I will dismember my
noo--Noo! N nooo nooo noo. N noo nooooooo nooo N nooo noooooooo no

dismemberer. Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one. That's
noooooooooo. Noo, nooo, no noo noooooo noo noo noooooooo noo. Nooo'n

more than ye, ye great gods, ever were. I laugh and hoot at ye, ye
nooo nooo no, no noooo nooo, nooo nooo. N noooo noo nooo no no, no

cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes!
noooooo-noooooo, no noooooooo, no nooo Nooooo noo noooooo Noooooooo!

I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies--Take some one of your own
N nooo noo noo no nooooooooo no no noooooo--Nooo nooo noo no nooo noo

size; don't pommel ME! No, ye've knocked me down, and I am up again; but
nooo; noo'n nooooo NO! No, no'no noooooo no nooo, noo N no no noooo; noo

YE have run and hidden. Come forth from behind your cotton bags! I have
NO nooo noo noo nooooo. Nooo noooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo nooo! N nooo

no long gun to reach ye. Come, Ahab's compliments to ye; come and see
no nooo noo no noooo no. Nooo, Nooo'n noooooooooo no no; nooo noo noo

if ye can swerve me. Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye swerve
no no noo nooooo no. Nooooo no? no nooooo nooooo no, nooo no nooooo

yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixed purpose is
nooooooooo! noo noo no noooo. Nooooo no? Noo nooo no no noooo noooooo no

laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run. Over unsounded
nooo nooo nooo noooo, noooooo no nooo no noooooo no noo. Nooo noooooooo

gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under torrents' beds,
nooooo, noooooo noo nooooo nooooo no noooooooo, noooo nooooooo' nooo,

unerringly I rush! Naught's an obstacle, naught's an angle to the iron
nooooooooo N nooo! Nooooo'n no nooooooo, nooooo'n no noooo no noo nooo

way!
noo!










CHAPTER 38. Dusk.
NOOOOOO no. Nooo.







BY THE MAINMAST; STARBUCK LEANING AGAINST IT.
NO NOO NOOOOOOO; NOOOOOOO NOOOOOO NOOOOOO NO.







My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned; and by a madman!
No nooo no nooo nooo noooooo; noo'n nooooooooo; noo no n nooooo!

Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field! But
Nooooooooooo noooo, nooo nooooo nooooo nooooo nooo no nooo n noooo! Noo

he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me! I think I see
no noooooo nooo nooo, noo noooooo noo no nooooo noo no no! N noooo N noo

his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it. Will I, nill I,
noo noooooo noo; noo nooo nooo N nooo nooo noo no no. Nooo N, nooo N,

the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have no
noo noooooooo noooo noo nooo no no noo; nooo no nooo n noooo N nooo no

knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who's over him, he cries;--aye, he would
noooo no noo. Nooooooo noo noo! Noo'n nooo noo, no noooo;--noo, no noooo

be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below! Oh! I
no n nooooooo no noo noooo; nooo, noo no noooo no nooo noo noooo! No! N

plainly see my miserable office,--to obey, rebelling; and worse yet,
noooooo noo no noooooooo nooooo,--no nooo, noooooooo; noo noooo noo,

to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes I read some lurid woe would
no nooo nooo noooo no nooo! Noo no noo nooo N nooo nooo noooo noo noooo

shrivel me up, had I it. Yet is there hope. Time and tide flow wide.
noooooo no no, noo N no. Noo no noooo nooo. Nooo noo nooo nooo nooo.

The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the small
Noo noooo noooo noo noo noooo nooooo noooo no nooo no, no noo noooo

gold-fish has its glassy globe. His heaven-insulting purpose, God may
nooo-nooo noo noo nooooo noooo. Noo nooooo-noooooooo noooooo, Noo noo

wedge aside. I would up heart, were it not like lead. But my whole
noooo noooo. N noooo no noooo, nooo no noo nooo nooo. Noo no noooo

clock's run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to
noooo'n noo nooo; no noooo noo noo-noooooooooo nooooo, N nooo no noo no

lift again.
nooo noooo.







[A BURST OF REVELRY FROM THE FORECASTLE.]
[N NOOOO NO NOOOOOO NOOO NOO NOOOOOOOOO.]







Oh, God! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human
No, Noo! no nooo nooo nooo n noooooo nooo nooo nooo noooo noooo no noooo

mothers in them! Whelped somewhere by the sharkish sea. The white whale
noooooo no nooo! Noooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo noo. Noo noooo noooo

is their demigorgon. Hark! the infernal orgies! that revelry is forward!
no noooo nooooooooo. Nooo! noo nooooooo nooooo! nooo noooooo no noooooo!

mark the unfaltering silence aft! Methinks it pictures life. Foremost
nooo noo noooooooooo noooooo noo! Nooooooo no nooooooo nooo. Nooooooo

through the sparkling sea shoots on the gay, embattled, bantering
noooooo noo noooooooo noo nooooo no noo noo, noooooooo, noooooooo

bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where he broods within his
noo, noo nooo no nooo nooo Nooo noooo no, noooo no nooooo nooooo noo

sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the wake, and further
noooooooo noooo, noooooo nooo noo nooo noooo no noo nooo, noo noooooo

on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings. The long howl thrills me through!
no, nooooo no noo noooooo noooooooo. Noo nooo nooo noooooo no noooooo!

Peace! ye revellers, and set the watch! Oh, life! 'tis in an hour like
Noooo! no noooooooo, noo noo noo noooo! No, nooo! 'noo no no nooo nooo

this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge,--as wild, untutored
nooo, nooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo no noooooooo,--no nooo, noooooooo

things are forced to feed--Oh, life! 'tis now that I do feel the latent
nooooo noo nooooo no nooo--No, nooo! 'noo noo nooo N no nooo noo nooooo

horror in thee! but 'tis not me! that horror's out of me! and with the
nooooo no nooo! noo 'noo noo no! nooo nooooo'n noo no no! noo nooo noo

soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim,
nooo noooooo no noo noooo no no, noo nooo N noo no noooo no, no nooo,

phantom futures! Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye blessed influences!
noooooo noooooo! Noooo no no, nooo no, nooo no, N no noooooo nooooooooo!










CHAPTER 39. First Night Watch.
NOOOOOO no. Noooo Noooo Noooo.




Fore-Top.
Nooo-Noo.




(STUBB SOLUS, AND MENDING A BRACE.)
(NOOOO NOOOO, NOO NOOOOOO N NOOOO.)







Ha! ha! ha! ha! hem! clear my throat!--I've been thinking over it
No! no! no! no! noo! noooo no nooooo!--N'no nooo nooooooo nooo no

ever since, and that ha, ha's the final consequence. Why so? Because a
nooo noooo, noo nooo no, no'n noo noooo noooooooooo. Noo no? Noooooo n

laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and come what
noooo'n noo nooooo, noooooo nooooo no noo nooo'n noooo; noo nooo nooo

will, one comfort's always left--that unfailing comfort is, it's all
nooo, noo noooooo'n nooooo nooo--nooo noooooooo noooooo no, no'n noo

predestinated. I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
noooooooooooo. N noooo noo noo noo nooo nooo Nooooooo; noo no no nooo

eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt. Be sure
noo Nooooooo nooo nooooo noooooooo no N noo noooo noooooo nooo. No nooo

the old Mogul has fixed him, too. I twigged it, knew it; had had the
noo noo Noooo noo noooo noo, noo. N noooooo no, nooo no; noo noo noo

gift, might readily have prophesied it--for when I clapped my eye upon
nooo, noooo noooooo nooo nooooooooo no--noo nooo N noooooo no noo nooo

his skull I saw it. Well, Stubb, WISE Stubb--that's my title--well,
noo noooo N noo no. Nooo, Noooo, NOOO Noooo--nooo'n no noooo--nooo,

Stubb, what of it, Stubb? Here's a carcase. I know not all that may be
Noooo, nooo no no, Noooo? Nooo'n n noooooo. N nooo noo noo nooo noo no

coming, but be it what it will, I'll go to it laughing. Such a waggish
nooooo, noo no no nooo no nooo, N'no no no no nooooooo. Nooo n noooooo

leering as lurks in all your horribles! I feel funny. Fa, la! lirra,
noooooo no noooo no noo nooo noooooooo! N nooo noooo. No, no! noooo,

skirra! What's my juicy little pear at home doing now? Crying its eyes
nooooo! Nooo'n no noooo nooooo nooo no nooo noooo noo? Nooooo noo nooo

out?--Giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as
noo?--Nooooo n noooo no noo nooo noooooo noooooooooo, N nooo noo, noo no

a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la! lirra, skirra! Oh--
n noooooo'n noooooo, noo no no N--no, no! noooo, nooooo! No--




We'll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as gay and fleeting
No'no noooo no-noooo nooo nooooo no noooo, No nooo, no noo noo nooooooo

As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the lips while
No noooooo nooo nooo, no noo nooooo'n nooo, Noo noooo no noo nooo noooo

meeting.
noooooo.







A brave stave that--who calls? Mr. Starbuck? Aye, aye, sir--(ASIDE) he's
N noooo noooo nooo--noo noooo? No. Nooooooo? Noo, noo, noo--(NOOOO) no'n

my superior, he has his too, if I'm not mistaken.--Aye, aye, sir, just
no nooooooo, no noo noo noo, no N'n noo nooooooo.--Noo, noo, noo, nooo

through with this job--coming.
noooooo nooo nooo noo--nooooo.










CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.
NOOOOOO no. Nooooooo, Nooooooooo.




HARPOONEERS AND SAILORS.
NOOOOOOOOOO NOO NOOOOOO.




(FORESAIL RISES AND DISCOVERS THE WATCH STANDING, LOUNGING, LEANING, AND
(NOOOOOOO NOOOO NOO NOOOOOOOO NOO NOOOO NOOOOOOO, NOOOOOOO, NOOOOOO, NOO

LYING IN VARIOUS ATTITUDES, ALL SINGING IN CHORUS.)
NOOOO NO NOOOOOO NOOOOOOOO, NOO NOOOOOO NO NOOOOO.)




     Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies!
     Nooooooo noo noooo no noo, Noooooo nooooo!

     Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!
     Nooooooo noo noooo no noo, nooooo no Noooo!

     Our captain's commanded.--
     Noo noooooo'n noooooooo.--




1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR. Oh, boys, don't be sentimental; it's bad for the
NOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOOO. No, nooo, noo'n no noooooooooo; no'n noo noo noo

digestion! Take a tonic, follow me! (SINGS, AND ALL FOLLOW)
noooooooo! Nooo n noooo, nooooo no! (NOOOO, NOO NOO NOOOOO)




    Our captain stood upon the deck,
    Noo noooooo noooo nooo noo nooo,

    A spy-glass in his hand,
    N noo-noooo no noo nooo,

    A viewing of those gallant whales
    N noooooo no noooo noooooo nooooo

    That blew at every strand.
    Nooo nooo no noooo nooooo.

    Oh, your tubs in your boats, my boys,
    No, nooo nooo no nooo noooo, no nooo,

    And by your braces stand,
    Noo no nooo nooooo noooo,

    And we'll have one of those fine whales,
    Noo no'no nooo noo no noooo nooo nooooo,

    Hand, boys, over hand!
    Nooo, nooo, nooo nooo!

    So, be cheery, my lads! may your hearts never fail!
    No, no nooooo, no nooo! noo nooo nooooo noooo nooo!

    While the bold harpooner is striking the whale!
    Noooo noo nooo noooooooo no nooooooo noo noooo!




MATE'S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Eight bells there, forward!
NOOO'N NOOOO NOOO NOO NOOOOOO-NOOO. Noooo noooo noooo, noooooo!




2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR. Avast the chorus! Eight bells there! d'ye hear,
NOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOOO. Noooo noo nooooo! Noooo noooo noooo! n'no nooo,

bell-boy? Strike the bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let me
nooo-noo? Nooooo noo nooo noooo, nooo Noo! nooo noooooooo! noo noo no

call the watch. I've the sort of mouth for that--the hogshead mouth.
nooo noo noooo. N'no noo nooo no noooo noo nooo--noo nooooooo noooo.

So, so, (THRUSTS HIS HEAD DOWN THE SCUTTLE,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!
No, no, (NOOOOOO NOO NOOO NOOO NOO NOOOOOO,) Nooo-no-n-n-n-n-n, n-n-n-n!

Eight bells there below! Tumble up!
Noooo noooo noooo noooo! Nooooo no!




DUTCH SAILOR. Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that. I
NOOOO NOOOOO. Noooo nooooooo no-noooo, nooo; noo noooo noo nooo. N

mark this in our old Mogul's wine; it's quite as deadening to some as
nooo nooo no noo noo Noooo'n nooo; no'n noooo no noooooooo no nooo no

filliping to others. We sing; they sleep--aye, lie down there, like
noooooooo no nooooo. No nooo; nooo noooo--noo, noo nooo noooo, nooo

ground-tier butts. At 'em again! There, take this copper-pump, and hail
nooooo-nooo noooo. No 'no noooo! Noooo, nooo nooo nooooo-nooo, noo nooo

'em through it. Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses. Tell 'em
'no noooooo no. Nooo 'no no noooo nooooooo no noooo nooooo. Nooo 'no

it's the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment.
no'n noo nooooooooooo; nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo, noo nooo no nooooooo.

That's the way--THAT'S it; thy throat ain't spoiled with eating
Nooo'n noo noo--NOOO'N no; noo nooooo noo'n noooooo nooo nooooo

Amsterdam butter.
Noooooooo nooooo.




FRENCH SAILOR. Hist, boys! let's have a jig or two before we ride to
NOOOOO NOOOOO. Nooo, nooo! noo'n nooo n noo no noo nooooo no nooo no

anchor in Blanket Bay. What say ye? There comes the other watch. Stand
nooooo no Noooooo Noo. Nooo noo no? Noooo noooo noo noooo noooo. Noooo

by all legs! Pip! little Pip! hurrah with your tambourine!
no noo nooo! Noo! nooooo Noo! nooooo nooo nooo nooooooooo!




PIP. (SULKY AND SLEEPY) Don't know where it is.
NOO. (NOOOO NOO NOOOOO) Noo'n nooo noooo no no.




FRENCH SAILOR. Beat thy belly, then, and wag thy ears. Jig it, men,
NOOOOO NOOOOO. Nooo noo noooo, nooo, noo noo noo nooo. Noo no, noo,

I say; merry's the word; hurrah! Damn me, won't you dance? Form, now,
N noo; noooo'n noo nooo; nooooo! Nooo no, noo'n noo noooo? Nooo, noo,

Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle? Throw yourselves! Legs!
Nooooo-nooo, noo nooooo nooo noo nooooo-noooooo? Noooo nooooooooo! Nooo!

legs!
nooo!




ICELAND SAILOR. I don't like your floor, maty; it's too springy to my
NOOOOOO NOOOOO. N noo'n nooo nooo noooo, nooo; no'n noo noooooo no no

taste. I'm used to ice-floors. I'm sorry to throw cold water on the
noooo. N'n nooo no noo-nooooo. N'n noooo no noooo nooo noooo no noo

subject; but excuse me.
noooooo; noo nooooo no.




MALTESE SAILOR. Me too; where's your girls? Who but a fool would take
NOOOOOO NOOOOO. No noo; noooo'n nooo noooo? Noo noo n nooo noooo nooo

his left hand by his right, and say to himself, how d'ye do? Partners! I
noo nooo nooo no noo noooo, noo noo no noooooo, noo n'no no? Nooooooo! N

must have partners!
nooo nooo nooooooo!




SICILIAN SAILOR. Aye; girls and a green!--then I'll hop with ye; yea,
NOOOOOOO NOOOOO. Noo; noooo noo n noooo!--nooo N'no noo nooo no; noo,

turn grasshopper!
nooo noooooooooo!




LONG-ISLAND SAILOR. Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more of us.
NOOO-NOOOOO NOOOOO. Nooo, nooo, no noooooo, noooo'n nooooo nooo no no.

Hoe corn when you may, say I. All legs go to harvest soon. Ah! here
Noo nooo nooo noo noo, noo N. Noo nooo no no noooooo nooo. No! nooo

comes the music; now for it!
noooo noo noooo; noo noo no!




AZORE SAILOR. (ASCENDING, AND PITCHING THE TAMBOURINE UP THE SCUTTLE.)
NOOOO NOOOOO. (NOOOOOOOO, NOO NOOOOOOO NOO NOOOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOOO.)

Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount! Now,
Nooo noo noo, Noo; noo noooo'n noo nooooooo-noooo; no noo noooo! Noo,

boys! (THE HALF OF THEM DANCE TO THE TAMBOURINE; SOME GO BELOW; SOME
nooo! (NOO NOOO NO NOOO NOOOO NO NOO NOOOOOOOOO; NOOO NO NOOOO; NOOO

SLEEP OR LIE AMONG THE COILS OF RIGGING. OATHS A-PLENTY.)
NOOOO NO NOO NOOOO NOO NOOOO NO NOOOOOO. NOOOO N-NOOOOO.)




AZORE SAILOR. (DANCING) Go it, Pip! Bang it, bell-boy! Rig it, dig it,
NOOOO NOOOOO. (NOOOOOO) No no, Noo! Nooo no, nooo-noo! Noo no, noo no,

stig it, quig it, bell-boy! Make fire-flies; break the jinglers!
nooo no, nooo no, nooo-noo! Nooo nooo-noooo; noooo noo nooooooo!




PIP. Jinglers, you say?--there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.
NOO. Nooooooo, noo noo?--noooo nooo noooooo, noooooo noo; N noooo no no.




CHINA SAILOR. Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of
NOOOO NOOOOO. Nooooo noo noooo, nooo, noo noooo nooo; nooo n nooooo no

thyself.
noooooo.







FRENCH SAILOR. Merry-mad! Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through it!
NOOOOO NOOOOO. Noooo-noo! Nooo no noo nooo, Noo, nooo N nooo noooooo no!

Split jibs! tear yourselves!
Noooo nooo! nooo nooooooooo!




TASHTEGO. (QUIETLY SMOKING) That's a white man; he calls that fun:
NOOOOOOO. (NOOOOOO NOOOOOO) Nooo'n n noooo noo; no noooo nooo noo:

humph! I save my sweat.
noooo! N nooo no noooo.




OLD MANX SAILOR. I wonder whether those jolly lads bethink them of what
NOO NOOO NOOOOO. N nooooo noooooo noooo noooo nooo noooooo nooo no nooo

they are dancing over. I'll dance over your grave, I will--that's
nooo noo noooooo nooo. N'no noooo nooo nooo noooo, N nooo--nooo'n

the bitterest threat of your night-women, that beat head-winds round
noo noooooooo nooooo no nooo noooo-noooo, nooo nooo nooo-noooo noooo

corners. O Christ! to think of the green navies and the green-skulled
noooooo. N Nooooo! no noooo no noo noooo nooooo noo noo noooo-noooooo

crews! Well, well; belike the whole world's a ball, as you scholars have
noooo! Nooo, nooo; nooooo noo noooo noooo'n n nooo, no noo nooooooo nooo

it; and so 'tis right to make one ballroom of it. Dance on, lads, you're
no; noo no 'noo noooo no nooo noo nooooooo no no. Noooo no, nooo, noo'no

young; I was once.
noooo; N noo nooo.




3D NANTUCKET SAILOR. Spell oh!--whew! this is worse than pulling after
NO NOOOOOOOO NOOOOO. Noooo no!--nooo! nooo no noooo nooo noooooo noooo

whales in a calm--give us a whiff, Tash.
nooooo no n nooo--nooo no n noooo, Nooo.




(THEY CEASE DANCING, AND GATHER IN CLUSTERS. MEANTIME THE SKY
(NOOO NOOOO NOOOOOO, NOO NOOOOO NO NOOOOOOO. NOOOOOOO NOO NOO

DARKENS--THE WIND RISES.)
NOOOOOO--NOO NOOO NOOOO.)




LASCAR SAILOR. By Brahma! boys, it'll be douse sail soon. The sky-born,
NOOOOO NOOOOO. No Nooooo! nooo, no'no no noooo nooo nooo. Noo noo-nooo,

high-tide Ganges turned to wind! Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!
nooo-nooo Nooooo nooooo no nooo! Nooo noooooo noo noooo nooo, Noooo!




MALTESE SAILOR. (RECLINING AND SHAKING HIS CAP.) It's the waves--the
NOOOOOO NOOOOO. (NOOOOOOOO NOO NOOOOOO NOO NOO.) No'n noo noooo--noo

snow's caps turn to jig it now. They'll shake their tassels soon. Now
nooo'n nooo nooo no noo no noo. Nooo'no noooo noooo noooooo nooo. Noo

would all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them
noooo noo noo noooo nooo noooo, nooo N'n no noooo, noo noooooo nooo nooo

evermore! There's naught so sweet on earth--heaven may not match
nooooooo! Noooo'n nooooo no noooo no noooo--nooooo noo noo noooo

it!--as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the
no!--no noooo noooo noooooo no nooo, nooo nooooo no noo noooo, nooo noo

over-arboring arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes.
nooo-nooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo, nooooooo nooooo.




SICILIAN SAILOR. (RECLINING.) Tell me not of it! Hark ye, lad--fleet
NOOOOOOO NOOOOO. (NOOOOOOOO.) Nooo no noo no no! Nooo no, noo--noooo

interlacings of the limbs--lithe swayings--coyings--flutterings! lip!
nooooooooooo no noo noooo--noooo nooooooo--noooooo--noooooooooo! noo!

heart! hip! all graze: unceasing touch and go! not taste, observe ye,
noooo! noo! noo noooo: noooooooo noooo noo no! noo noooo, noooooo no,

else come satiety. Eh, Pagan? (NUDGING.)
nooo nooo noooooo. No, Noooo? (NOOOOOO.)




TAHITAN SAILOR. (RECLINING ON A MAT.) Hail, holy nakedness of our
NOOOOOO NOOOOO. (NOOOOOOOO NO N NOO.) Nooo, nooo noooooooo no noo

dancing girls!--the Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti! I
noooooo noooo!--noo Noooo-Noooo! No! noo nooooo, nooo nooooo Nooooo! N

still rest me on thy mat, but the soft soil has slid! I saw thee woven
noooo nooo no no noo noo, noo noo nooo nooo noo nooo! N noo nooo noooo

in the wood, my mat! green the first day I brought ye thence; now worn
no noo nooo, no noo! noooo noo noooo noo N noooooo no nooooo; noo nooo

and wilted quite. Ah me!--not thou nor I can bear the change! How
noo nooooo noooo. No no!--noo nooo noo N noo nooo noo nooooo! Noo

then, if so be transplanted to yon sky? Hear I the roaring streams from
nooo, no no no nooooooooooo no noo noo? Nooo N noo noooooo noooooo nooo

Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they leap down the crags and drown the
Noooooooo'n nooo no nooooo, nooo nooo nooo nooo noo noooo noo noooo noo

villages?--The blast! the blast! Up, spine, and meet it! (LEAPS TO HIS
nooooooo?--Noo noooo! noo noooo! No, noooo, noo nooo no! (NOOOO NO NOO

FEET.)
NOOO.)




PORTUGUESE SAILOR. How the sea rolls swashing 'gainst the side! Stand
NOOOOOOOOO NOOOOO. Noo noo noo noooo nooooooo 'nooooo noo nooo! Noooo

by for reefing, hearties! the winds are just crossing swords, pell-mell
no noo noooooo, nooooooo! noo noooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooo, nooo-nooo

they'll go lunging presently.
nooo'no no noooooo noooooooo.




DANISH SAILOR. Crack, crack, old ship! so long as thou crackest, thou
NOOOOO NOOOOO. Noooo, noooo, noo nooo! no nooo no nooo nooooooo, nooo

holdest! Well done! The mate there holds ye to it stiffly. He's no more
noooooo! Nooo nooo! Noo nooo noooo noooo no no no noooooo. No'n no nooo

afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic
nooooo nooo noo nooo nooo no Nooooooo, noo noooo no noooo noo Nooooo

with storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes!
nooo noooo-nooooo nooo, no noooo noo noo-nooo noooo!




4TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. He has his orders, mind ye that. I heard old
NOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOOO. No noo noo nooooo, nooo no nooo. N noooo noo

Ahab tell him he must always kill a squall, something as they burst a
Nooo nooo noo no nooo nooooo nooo n nooooo, noooooooo no nooo noooo n

waterspout with a pistol--fire your ship right into it!
nooooooooo nooo n nooooo--nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo no!




ENGLISH SAILOR. Blood! but that old man's a grand old cove! We are the
NOOOOOO NOOOOO. Noooo! noo nooo noo noo'n n noooo noo nooo! No noo noo

lads to hunt him up his whale!
nooo no nooo noo no noo noooo!




ALL. Aye! aye!
NOO. Noo! noo!




OLD MANX SAILOR. How the three pines shake! Pines are the hardest sort
NOO NOOO NOOOOO. Noo noo noooo noooo noooo! Noooo noo noo noooooo nooo

of tree to live when shifted to any other soil, and here there's none
no nooo no nooo nooo noooooo no noo noooo nooo, noo nooo noooo'n nooo

but the crew's cursed clay. Steady, helmsman! steady. This is the sort
noo noo nooo'n nooooo nooo. Nooooo, nooooooo! nooooo. Nooo no noo nooo

of weather when brave hearts snap ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.
no noooooo nooo noooo nooooo nooo nooooo, noo nooooo noooo noooo no noo.

Our captain has his birthmark; look yonder, boys, there's another in the
Noo noooooo noo noo noooooooo; nooo nooooo, nooo, noooo'n noooooo no noo

sky--lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch black.
noo--noooo-nooo, no noo, noo nooo noooo noooo.




DAGGOO. What of that? Who's afraid of black's afraid of me! I'm quarried
NOOOOO. Nooo no nooo? Noo'n nooooo no noooo'n nooooo no no! N'n nooooooo

out of it!
noo no no!




SPANISH SAILOR. (ASIDE.) He wants to bully, ah!--the old grudge makes
NOOOOOO NOOOOO. (NOOOO.) No noooo no noooo, no!--noo noo nooooo noooo

me touchy (ADVANCING.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the undeniable dark
no nooooo (NOOOOOOOO.) Noo, nooooooooo, noo nooo no noo nooooooooo nooo

side of mankind--devilish dark at that. No offence.
nooo no noooooo--nooooooo nooo no nooo. No noooooo.




DAGGOO (GRIMLY). None.
NOOOOO (NOOOOO). Nooo.




ST. JAGO'S SAILOR. That Spaniard's mad or drunk. But that can't be, or
NO. NOOO'N NOOOOO. Nooo Nooooooo'n noo no noooo. Noo nooo noo'n no, no

else in his one case our old Mogul's fire-waters are somewhat long in
nooo no noo noo nooo noo noo Noooo'n nooo-nooooo noo nooooooo nooo no

working.
noooooo.




5TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. What's that I saw--lightning? Yes.
NOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOOO. Nooo'n nooo N noo--noooooooo? Noo.




SPANISH SAILOR. No; Daggoo showing his teeth.
NOOOOOO NOOOOO. No; Nooooo noooooo noo noooo.




DAGGOO (SPRINGING). Swallow thine, mannikin! White skin, white liver!
NOOOOO (NOOOOOOOO). Noooooo noooo, nooooooo! Noooo nooo, noooo noooo!




SPANISH SAILOR (MEETING HIM). Knife thee heartily! big frame, small
NOOOOOO NOOOOO (NOOOOOO NOO). Noooo nooo nooooooo! noo noooo, noooo

spirit!
nooooo!




ALL. A row! a row! a row!
NOO. N noo! n noo! n noo!




TASHTEGO (WITH A WHIFF). A row a'low, and a row aloft--Gods and
NOOOOOOO (NOOO N NOOOO). N noo n'noo, noo n noo noooo--Nooo noo

men--both brawlers! Humph!
noo--nooo nooooooo! Noooo!




BELFAST SAILOR. A row! arrah a row! The Virgin be blessed, a row! Plunge
NOOOOOO NOOOOO. N noo! noooo n noo! Noo Nooooo no noooooo, n noo! Nooooo

in with ye!
no nooo no!




ENGLISH SAILOR. Fair play! Snatch the Spaniard's knife! A ring, a ring!
NOOOOOO NOOOOO. Nooo nooo! Nooooo noo Nooooooo'n noooo! N nooo, n nooo!




OLD MANX SAILOR. Ready formed. There! the ringed horizon. In that ring
NOO NOOO NOOOOO. Noooo nooooo. Noooo! noo nooooo noooooo. No nooo nooo

Cain struck Abel. Sweet work, right work! No? Why then, God, mad'st thou
Nooo nooooo Nooo. Noooo nooo, noooo nooo! No? Noo nooo, Noo, noo'no nooo

the ring?
noo nooo?




MATE'S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Hands by the halyards! in
NOOO'N NOOOO NOOO NOO NOOOOOO-NOOO. Noooo no noo nooooooo! no

top-gallant sails! Stand by to reef topsails!
noo-noooooo noooo! Noooo no no nooo nooooooo!




ALL. The squall! the squall! jump, my jollies! (THEY SCATTER.)
NOO. Noo nooooo! noo nooooo! nooo, no noooooo! (NOOO NOOOOOO.)







PIP (SHRINKING UNDER THE WINDLASS). Jollies? Lord help such jollies!
NOO (NOOOOOOOO NOOOO NOO NOOOOOOO). Noooooo? Nooo nooo nooo noooooo!

Crish, crash! there goes the jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower,
Noooo, noooo! noooo nooo noo noo-nooo! Noooo-noooo! Noo! Nooo noooo,

Pip, here comes the royal yard! It's worse than being in the whirled
Noo, nooo noooo noo noooo nooo! No'n noooo nooo noooo no noo noooooo

woods, the last day of the year! Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?
noooo, noo nooo noo no noo nooo! Noo'n no nooooooo noooo noooooooo noo?

But there they go, all cursing, and here I don't. Fine prospects to 'em;
Noo noooo nooo no, noo noooooo, noo nooo N noo'n. Nooo noooooooo no 'no;

they're on the road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a squall!
nooo'no no noo nooo no nooooo. Nooo no nooo! Noooooo, nooo n nooooo!

But those chaps there are worse yet--they are your white squalls, they.
Noo noooo noooo noooo noo noooo noo--nooo noo nooo noooo noooooo, nooo.

White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr! Here have I heard all their
Noooo noooooo? noooo noooo, noooo! noooo! Nooo nooo N noooo noo noooo

chat just now, and the white whale--shirr! shirr!--but spoken of
nooo nooo noo, noo noo noooo noooo--noooo! noooo!--noo nooooo no

once! and only this evening--it makes me jingle all over like my
nooo! noo nooo nooo noooooo--no noooo no nooooo noo nooo nooo no

tambourine--that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in to hunt him! Oh,
nooooooooo--nooo nooooooo no no noo noo noooo 'no no no nooo noo! No,

thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness, have mercy on
nooo noo noooo Noo noooo noooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo, nooo noooo no

this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that have no
nooo noooo noooo noo nooo nooo; nooooooo noo nooo noo noo nooo nooo no

bowels to feel fear!
nooooo no nooo nooo!










CHAPTER 41. Moby Dick.
NOOOOOO no. Nooo Nooo.







I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest;
N, Noooooo, noo noo no nooo nooo; no nooooo noo nooo no nooo noo nooo;

my oath had been welded with theirs; and stronger I shouted, and more
no nooo noo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo; noo nooooooo N noooooo, noo nooo

did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A
noo N nooooo noo nooooo no nooo, noooooo no noo noooo no no nooo. N

wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's quenchless feud
nooo, nooooooo, noooooooooooo noooooo noo no no; Nooo'n nooooooooo nooo

seemed mine. With greedy ears I learned the history of that murderous
nooooo nooo. Nooo nooooo nooo N noooooo noo noooooo no nooo noooooooo

monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
noooooo noooooo nooo N noo noo noo nooooo noo noooo noo noooo no

violence and revenge.
nooooooo noo noooooo.




For some time past, though at intervals only, the unaccompanied,
Noo nooo nooo nooo, nooooo no noooooooo nooo, noo noooooooooooo,

secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
nooooooo Noooo Noooo noo noooooo noooo noooooooooo nooo nooooo

frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of them knew of his
nooooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo noooooooo. Noo noo noo no nooo nooo no noo

existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him;
noooooooo; nooo n noo no nooo, noooooooooooo, noo noooooooo nooo noo;

while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to
noooo noo nooooo noo no noo noo nooooooo noo noooooooo noooo nooooo no

him, was small indeed. For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers;
noo, noo noooo nooooo. Noo, noooo no noo noooo nooooo no noooo-nooooooo;

the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery
noo nooooooooo noo nooo nooo noooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo

circumference, many of them adventurously pushing their quest along
noooooooooooo, nooo no nooo noooooooooooo noooooo noooo noooo noooo

solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or
nooooooo noooooooo, no no nooooo no noooo noo n noooo noooooooooo no

more on a stretch, to encounter a single news-telling sail of any sort;
nooo no n noooooo, no noooooooo n nooooo nooo-noooooo nooo no noo nooo;

the inordinate length of each separate voyage; the irregularity of the
noo nooooooooo nooooo no nooo nooooooo nooooo; noo nooooooooooo no noo

times of sailing from home; all these, with other circumstances, direct
noooo no noooooo nooo nooo; noo noooo, nooo noooo noooooooooooo, nooooo

and indirect, long obstructed the spread through the whole world-wide
noo nooooooo, nooo nooooooooo noo nooooo noooooo noo noooo noooo-nooo

whaling-fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby
noooooo-noooo no noo noooooo noooooooooooooo noooooo nooooooooo Nooo

Dick. It was hardly to be doubted, that several vessels reported to have
Nooo. No noo nooooo no no noooooo, nooo noooooo noooooo nooooooo no nooo

encountered, at such or such a time, or on such or such a meridian,
noooooooooo, no nooo no nooo n nooo, no no nooo no nooo n nooooooo,

a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity, which whale, after
n Noooo Noooo no nooooooo noooooooo noo noooooooo, noooo noooo, noooo

doing great mischief to his assailants, had completely escaped them; to
noooo noooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooo, noo nooooooooo noooooo nooo; no

some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I say, that the whale in
nooo noooo no noo noo no nooooo noooooooooo, N noo, nooo noo noooo no

question must have been no other than Moby Dick. Yet as of late the
nooooooo nooo nooo nooo no noooo nooo Nooo Nooo. Noo no no nooo noo

Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent
Noooo Noooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo no noooooo noo noo nooooooooo

instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster
noooooooo no noooo nooooooo, noooooo, noo nooooo no noo noooooo

attacked; therefore it was, that those who by accident ignorantly gave
nooooooo; noooooooo no noo, nooo noooo noo no nooooooo nooooooooo nooo

battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were
nooooo no Nooo Nooo; nooo noooooo, noooooo, noo noo nooo nooo, nooo

content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to
noooooo no noooooo noo nooooooo nooooo no nooo, nooo, no no nooo, no

the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual
noo nooooo no noo Noooo Noooo noooooo no noooo, nooo no noo nooooooooo

cause. In that way, mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and
noooo. No nooo noo, nooooo, noo nooooooooo noooooooo noooooo Nooo noo

the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded.
noo noooo noo nooooooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo.




And as for those who, previously hearing of the White Whale, by chance
Noo no noo noooo noo, nooooooooo noooooo no noo Noooo Noooo, no nooooo

caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had every one of
nooooo noooo no noo; no noo noooooooo no noo noooo nooo noo noooo noo no

them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for any other
nooo, nooooo, no nooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo noo noo, no noo noo noooo

whale of that species. But at length, such calamities did ensue in these
noooo no nooo noooooo. Noo no nooooo, nooo nooooooooo noo noooo no noooo

assaults--not restricted to sprained wrists and ankles, broken limbs, or
nooooooo--noo nooooooooo no nooooooo nooooo noo nooooo, nooooo noooo, no

devouring amputations--but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those
noooooooo noooooooooo--noo noooo no noo nooo nooooo no nooooooo; noooo

repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors
nooooooo nooooooooo nooooooo, noo nooooooooooo noo nooooo noooo noooooo

upon Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many
nooo Nooo Nooo; noooo nooooo noo nooo noo no noooo noo noooooooo no nooo

brave hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come.
noooo noooooo, no nooo noo noooo no noo Noooo Noooo noo nooooooooo nooo.




Nor did wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more
Noo noo nooo nooooo no noo noooo nooo no nooooooooo, noo noooo noo nooo

horrify the true histories of these deadly encounters. For not only do
noooooo noo nooo noooooooo no noooo nooooo nooooooooo. Noo noo nooo no

fabulous rumors naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising
nooooooo nooooo noooooooo nooo noo no noo nooo nooo no noo nooooooooo

terrible events,--as the smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in
nooooooo nooooo,--no noo noooooo nooo noooo noooo no noo noooo; noo, no

maritime life, far more than in that of terra firma, wild rumors abound,
nooooooo nooo, noo nooo nooo no nooo no noooo noooo, nooo nooooo nooooo,

wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to. And as the
nooooooo noooo no noo nooooooo noooooo noo nooo no noooo no. Noo no noo

sea surpasses the land in this matter, so the whale fishery surpasses
noo noooooooo noo nooo no nooo nooooo, no noo noooo noooooo noooooooo

every other sort of maritime life, in the wonderfulness and fearfulness
noooo noooo nooo no nooooooo nooo, no noo noooooooooooo noo noooooooooo

of the rumors which sometimes circulate there. For not only are whalemen
no noo nooooo noooo noooooooo noooooooo noooo. Noo noo nooo noo nooooooo

as a body unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary
no n nooo nooooooo nooo nooo noooooooo noo noooooooooooooooo nooooooooo

to all sailors; but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most
no noo noooooo; noo no noo noooooo, nooo noo no noo nooo noo nooo

directly brought into contact with whatever is appallingly astonishing
nooooooo noooooo nooo noooooo nooo nooooooo no noooooooooo noooooooooo

in the sea; face to face they not only eye its greatest marvels, but,
no noo noo; nooo no nooo nooo noo nooo noo noo nooooooo noooooo, noo,

hand to jaw, give battle to them. Alone, in such remotest waters, that
nooo no noo, nooo nooooo no nooo. Noooo, no nooo nooooooo nooooo, nooo

though you sailed a thousand miles, and passed a thousand shores, you
nooooo noo nooooo n nooooooo noooo, noo nooooo n nooooooo nooooo, noo

would not come to any chiseled hearth-stone, or aught hospitable beneath
noooo noo nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo-noooo, no noooo nooooooooo noooooo

that part of the sun; in such latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too
nooo nooo no noo noo; no nooo noooooooo noo nooooooooo, nooooooo noo

such a calling as he does, the whaleman is wrapped by influences all
nooo n noooooo no no nooo, noo nooooooo no noooooo no nooooooooo noo

tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a mighty birth.
noooooo no nooo noo noooo nooooooo nooo nooo n nooooo noooo.




No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over
No nooooo, nooo, nooo nooo noooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo noooooo nooo

the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale did
noo nooooo nooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo nooooo no noo Noooo Noooo noo

in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints,
no noo noo noooooooooo nooo nooooooooo noo nooooo no nooooo noooo,

and half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which
noo nooo-nooooo nooooo noooooooooo no nooooooooooo nooooooo, noooo

eventually invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything
nooooooooo nooooooo Nooo Nooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooooo nooo nooooooo

that visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic did he finally
nooo noooooo noooooo. No nooo no nooo noooo nooo n noooo noo no noooooo

strike, that few who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White
nooooo, nooo noo noo no noooo nooooo, no noooo, noo noooo no noo Noooo

Whale, few of those hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his
Noooo, noo no noooo noooooo nooo noooooo no noooooooo noo nooooo no noo

jaw.
noo.




But there were still other and more vital practical influences at work.
Noo noooo nooo noooo noooo noo nooo noooo noooooooo nooooooooo no nooo.

Not even at the present day has the original prestige of the Sperm
Noo nooo no noo noooooo noo noo noo nooooooo nooooooo no noo Noooo

Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the
Noooo, no noooooooo noooooooooooo nooo noo noooo noooooo no noo

leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen as a body. There are
noooooooo, nooo noo no noo noooo no noo nooooooo no n nooo. Noooo noo

those this day among them, who, though intelligent and courageous
noooo nooo noo noooo nooo, noo, nooooo noooooooooo noo nooooooooo

enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would
nooooo no nooooooo nooooo no noo Noooooooo no Noooo noooo, noooo

perhaps--either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or
noooooo--nooooo nooo nooooooooooo nooooooooooo, no nooooooooooo, no

timidity, decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are
nooooooo, noooooo n noooooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo; no noo nooo, noooo noo

plenty of whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing
nooooo no nooooooo, nooooooooo noooo noooo noooooo noooooo noo noooooo

under the American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm
noooo noo Nooooooo nooo, noo nooo noooo noooooooo noooooooooo noo Noooo

Whale, but whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to
Noooo, noo noooo nooo noooooooo no noo noooooooo no nooooooooo no

the ignoble monster primitively pursued in the North; seated on their
noo noooooo noooooo noooooooooo noooooo no noo Noooo; nooooo no noooo

hatches, these men will hearken with a childish fireside interest
noooooo, noooo noo nooo noooooo nooo n nooooooo nooooooo nooooooo

and awe, to the wild, strange tales of Southern whaling. Nor is the
noo noo, no noo nooo, noooooo noooo no Nooooooo noooooo. Noo no noo

pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm Whale anywhere more
noo-noooooo nooooooooooooo no noo noooo Noooo Noooo nooooooo nooo

feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which stem him.
noooooooo nooooooooooo, nooo no noooo no noooo noooo noooo nooo noo.




And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former
Noo no no noo noo nooooo noooooo no noo noooo noo no nooooo

legendary times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book
noooooooo noooo nooooo noo nooooo nooooo no; no nooo nooo nooo

naturalists--Olassen and Povelson--declaring the Sperm Whale not only to
noooooooooo--Noooooo noo Nooooooo--noooooooo noo Noooo Noooo noo nooo no

be a consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so
no n noooooooooooo no noooo noooo nooooooo no noo noo, noo nooo no no no

incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood. Nor
nooooooooo noooooooo no noooooooooo no no noooooo noo noooo noooo. Noo

even down to so late a time as Cuvier's, were these or almost similar
nooo nooo no no nooo n nooo no Nooooo'n, nooo noooo no nooooo noooooo

impressions effaced. For in his Natural History, the Baron himself
noooooooooo noooooo. Noo no noo Noooooo Noooooo, noo Noooo noooooo

affirms that at sight of the Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are
noooooo nooo no noooo no noo Noooo Noooo, noo nooo (nooooo nooooooo) noo

"struck with the most lively terrors," and "often in the precipitancy of
"nooooo nooo noo nooo nooooo noooooo," noo "noooo no noo nooooooooooo no

their flight dash themselves against the rocks with such violence as to
noooo nooooo nooo nooooooooo noooooo noo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo no no

cause instantaneous death." And however the general experiences in the
noooo noooooooooooo noooo." Noo noooooo noo noooooo noooooooooo no noo

fishery may amend such reports as these; yet in their full terribleness,
noooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo no noooo; noo no noooo nooo nooooooooooo,

even to the bloodthirsty item of Povelson, the superstitious belief in
nooo no noo nooooooooooo nooo no Nooooooo, noo noooooooooooo nooooo no

them is, in some vicissitudes of their vocation, revived in the minds of
nooo no, no nooo nooooooooooo no noooo nooooooo, noooooo no noo noooo no

the hunters.
noo noooooo.




So that overawed by the rumors and portents concerning him, not a few of
No nooo nooooooo no noo nooooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo noo, noo n noo no

the fishermen recalled, in reference to Moby Dick, the earlier days
noo noooooooo nooooooo, no noooooooo no Nooo Nooo, noo noooooo nooo

of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was oftentimes hard to induce long
no noo Noooo Noooo noooooo, nooo no noo nooooooooo nooo no nooooo nooo

practised Right whalemen to embark in the perils of this new and daring
noooooooo Noooo nooooooo no nooooo no noo nooooo no nooo noo noo nooooo

warfare; such men protesting that although other leviathans might be
noooooo; nooo noo nooooooooo nooo nooooooo noooo nooooooooo noooo no

hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at such an apparition
noooooooo noooooo, noo no noooo noo noooo noooo no nooo no nooooooooo

as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would
no noo Noooo Noooo noo noo noo nooooo noo. Nooo no noooooo no, noooo

be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity. On this head, there are
no nooooooooo no no nooo nooo n noooo nooooooo. No nooo nooo, noooo noo

some remarkable documents that may be consulted.
nooo nooooooooo noooooooo nooo noo no noooooooo.




Nevertheless, some there were, who even in the face of these things
Nooooooooooo, nooo noooo nooo, noo nooo no noo nooo no noooo nooooo

were ready to give chase to Moby Dick; and a still greater number who,
nooo noooo no nooo noooo no Nooo Nooo; noo n noooo noooooo nooooo noo,

chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely, without the
nooooooo nooo no nooo no noo noooooooo noo noooooo, noooooo noo

specific details of any certain calamity, and without superstitious
nooooooo noooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo, noo noooooo noooooooooooo

accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if
nooooooooooooo, nooo nooooooooooo noooo noo no nooo nooo noo nooooo no

offered.
noooooo.




One of the wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be linked
Noo no noo nooo noooooooooo nooooooo no, no no nooo nooooo no no nooooo

with the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined,
nooo noo Noooo Noooo no noo noooo no noo noooooooooooooo nooooooo,

was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous; that he had
noo noo noooooooo noooooo nooo Nooo Nooo noo nooooooooo; nooo no noo

actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same
nooooooo nooo noooooooooo no nooooooo noooooooo no noo noo noo nooo

instant of time.
noooooo no nooo.




Nor, credulous as such minds must have been, was this conceit altogether
Noo, noooooooo no nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo, noo nooo noooooo nooooooooo

without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as the secrets
noooooo nooo noooo nooo no noooooooooooo noooooooooo. Noo no noo noooooo

of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged, even to
no noo nooooooo no noo nooo nooo noooo noo nooo nooooooo, nooo no

the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the Sperm Whale
noo nooo noooooo nooooooo; no noo nooooo nooo no noo Noooo Noooo

when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to his
nooo noooooo noo noooooo nooooo, no noooo nooo, noooooooooooo no noo

pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and
nooooooo; noo nooo nooo no nooo nooo nooooooooo noo nooo noooooo noo

contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the
noooooooooooo nooooooooooo noooooooo nooo, nooooooooo nooooooooo noo

mystic modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he transports
nooooo noooo noooooo, noooo nooooooo no n noooo noooo, no nooooooooo

himself with such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points.
noooooo nooo nooo nooo noooooooo no noo nooo nooooo noooooo nooooo.




It is a thing well known to both American and English whale-ships, and
No no n noooo nooo noooo no nooo Nooooooo noo Noooooo noooo-noooo, noo

as well a thing placed upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby,
no nooo n noooo nooooo nooo noooooooooooo nooooo noooo noo no Nooooooo,

that some whales have been captured far north in the Pacific, in whose
nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo noooo no noo Noooooo, no noooo

bodies have been found the barbs of harpoons darted in the Greenland
nooooo nooo nooo noooo noo noooo no nooooooo nooooo no noo Noooooooo

seas. Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in some of these instances it has
nooo. Noo no no no no nooooooo, nooo no nooo no noooo noooooooo no noo

been declared that the interval of time between the two assaults could
nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo no nooo noooooo noo noo nooooooo noooo

not have exceeded very many days. Hence, by inference, it has been
noo nooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooo. Noooo, no noooooooo, no noo nooo

believed by some whalemen, that the Nor' West Passage, so long a problem
nooooooo no nooo nooooooo, nooo noo Noo' Nooo Noooooo, no nooo n noooooo

to man, was never a problem to the whale. So that here, in the real
no noo, noo noooo n noooooo no noo noooo. No nooo nooo, no noo nooo

living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of
nooooo nooooooooo no nooooo noo, noo noooooooo noooooo no noo noooo no

the inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said
noo nooooo Noooooo nooooooo no Nooooooo (nooo noooo noo noooo noo nooo

to be a lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface);
no no n nooo no noooo noo nooooo no noooo noooooo no no noo noooooo);

and that still more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near
noo nooo noooo nooo noooooooo noooo no noo Nooooooo nooooooo nooo

Syracuse (whose waters were believed to have come from the Holy Land
Nooooooo (noooo nooooo nooo nooooooo no nooo nooo nooo noo Nooo Nooo

by an underground passage); these fabulous narrations are almost fully
no no noooooooooo noooooo); noooo nooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo noooo

equalled by the realities of the whalemen.
nooooooo no noo noooooooo no noo nooooooo.




Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and knowing
Nooooo nooo noooooooooo, nooo, nooo nooo noooooooo no noooo; noo noooooo

that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped
nooo noooo nooooooo, nooooooo nooooooo, noo Noooo Noooo noo noooooo

alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should
noooo; no nooooo no nooo nooooo no nooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooooo

go still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only
no noooo noooooo no noooo noooooooooooo; noooooooo Nooo Nooo noo nooo

ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that
nooooooooo, noo nooooooo (noo noooooooooo no noo nooooooo no nooo); nooo

though groves of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still
nooooo nooooo no nooooo nooooo no noooooo no noo nooooo, no noooo noooo

swim away unharmed; or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick
nooo nooo nooooooo; no no nooooo no nooooo nooo no nooo no noooo noooo

blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in
noooo, nooo n noooo noooo no noo n noooooo noooooooo; noo noooo no

unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied jet would
noooooooooooo noooooo nooooooo no noooooo nooo, noo noooooooo noo noooo

once more be seen.
nooo nooo no nooo.




But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was enough in
Noo nooo nooooooo no noooo nooooooooooo nooooooooo, noooo noo nooooo no

the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to strike
noo noooooo nooo noo noooooooooooo noooooooo no noo noooooo no nooooo

the imagination with unwonted power. For, it was not so much his
noo noooooooooo nooo nooooooo noooo. Noo, no noo noo no nooo noo

uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales,
nooooooo nooo nooo no nooo noooooooooooo noo nooo noooo noooo nooooo,

but, as was elsewhere thrown out--a peculiar snow-white wrinkled
noo, no noo noooooooo nooooo noo--n nooooooo nooo-noooo nooooooo

forehead, and a high, pyramidical white hump. These were his prominent
nooooooo, noo n nooo, noooooooooo noooo nooo. Noooo nooo noo noooooooo

features; the tokens whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he
nooooooo; noo nooooo noooooo, nooo no noo noooooooo, noooooooo nooo, no

revealed his identity, at a long distance, to those who knew him.
nooooooo noo nooooooo, no n nooo nooooooo, no noooo noo nooo noo.




The rest of his body was so streaked, and spotted, and marbled with
Noo nooo no noo nooo noo no nooooooo, noo noooooo, noo noooooo nooo

the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had gained his distinctive
noo nooo nooooooo noo, nooo, no noo noo, no noo nooooo noo noooooooooo

appellation of the White Whale; a name, indeed, literally justified by
noooooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo; n nooo, nooooo, noooooooo noooooooo no

his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue
noo noooo nooooo, nooo nooo noooooo no nooo nooo noooooo n nooo nooo

sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all spangled with golden
noo, noooooo n noooo-noo nooo no nooooo nooo, noo nooooooo nooo nooooo

gleamings.
noooooooo.




Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his remarkable hue, nor yet his
Noo noo no noo nooooooo noooooooo, noo noo nooooooooo noo, noo noo noo

deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the whale with natural terror,
nooooooo noooo noo, nooo no nooo nooooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo nooooo,

as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which, according to specific
no nooo nooooooooo, noooooooooo noooooooo noooo, noooooooo no nooooooo

accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his assaults. More than
nooooooo, no noo nooo noo nooo noooo noooooo no noo nooooooo. Nooo nooo

all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than perhaps aught
noo, noo noooooooooo nooooooo nooooo nooo no nooooo nooo noooooo noooo

else. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with every
nooo. Noo, nooo nooooooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooooooo, nooo noooo

apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known to turn
nooooooo noooooo no noooo, no noo noooooo noooo nooo noooo no nooo

round suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to
noooo nooooooo, noo, noooooo nooo nooo nooo, nooooo noooo noooo noooo no

splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.
noooooooo, no noooo nooo nooo no noooooooooooo no noooo nooo.




Already several fatalities had attended his chase. But though similar
Noooooo noooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooo noo noooo. Noo nooooo noooooo

disasters, however little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual
noooooooo, noooooo nooooo noooooo nooooo, nooo no no noooo noooooo

in the fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed the White Whale's
no noo noooooo; noo, no nooo noooooooo, nooo nooooo noo Noooo Noooo'n

infernal aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or death
nooooooo nooooooooooo no nooooooo, nooo noooo nooooooooooo no noooo

that he caused, was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an
nooo no nooooo, noo noo nooooo nooooooo no nooooo nooo noooooooo no no

unintelligent agent.
noooooooooooo noooo.




Judge, then, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted fury the minds of
Noooo, nooo, no nooo noooooo no nooooooo, nooooooooo nooo noo noooo no

his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of chewed
noo nooo noooooooo noooooo nooo nooooooo, nooo nooo noo noooo no nooooo

boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
noooo, noo noo noooooo noooo no nooo nooooooo, nooo nooo noo no noo

white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
noooo noooo no noo noooo'n noooooo noooo nooo noo nooooo, nooooooooooo

sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.
nooooooo, nooo nooooo no, no no no n noooo no n nooooo.




His three boats stove around him, and oars and men both whirling in the
Noo noooo noooo noooo nooooo noo, noo nooo noo noo nooo nooooooo no noo

eddies; one captain, seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had
nooooo; noo noooooo, noooooo noo nooo-noooo nooo noo nooooo nooo, noo

dashed at the whale, as an Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking
nooooo no noo noooo, no no Nooooooo nooooooo no noo noo, noooooo noooooo

with a six inch blade to reach the fathom-deep life of the whale.
nooo n noo nooo noooo no noooo noo nooooo-nooo nooo no noo noooo.

That captain was Ahab. And then it was, that suddenly sweeping his
Nooo noooooo noo Nooo. Noo nooo no noo, nooo nooooooo nooooooo noo

sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had reaped away Ahab's
nooooo-nooooo noooo noo noooooo noo, Nooo Nooo noo nooooo nooo Nooo'n

leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field. No turbaned Turk, no
noo, no n noooo n noooo no noooo no noo noooo. No nooooooo Nooo, no

hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming malice.
noooo Nooooooo no Noooo, noooo nooo noooo noo nooo nooo noooooo nooooo.

Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that almost fatal
Noooo nooooo noo noooo no noooo, nooo, nooo nooo noooo nooo nooooo noooo

encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale,
noooooooo, Nooo noo noooooooo n nooo nooooooooooooo noooooo noo noooo,

all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came
noo noo nooo nooo noo nooo no noo noooooo nooooooooo no no nooo nooo

to identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all his
no nooooooo nooo noo, noo nooo noo noo nooooo nooo, noo noo noo

intellectual and spiritual exasperations. The White Whale swam before
nooooooooooo noo noooooooo noooooooooooo. Noo Noooo Noooo nooo nooooo

him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agencies which
noo no noo nooooooooo noooooooooo no noo noooo noooooooo nooooooo noooo

some deep men feel eating in them, till they are left living on with
nooo nooo noo nooo nooooo no nooo, nooo nooo noo nooo nooooo no nooo

half a heart and half a lung. That intangible malignity which has been
nooo n noooo noo nooo n nooo. Nooo nooooooooo noooooooo noooo noo nooo

from the beginning; to whose dominion even the modern Christians ascribe
nooo noo noooooooo; no noooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo Nooooooooo noooooo

one-half of the worlds; which the ancient Ophites of the east reverenced
noo-nooo no noo nooooo; noooo noo noooooo Noooooo no noo nooo nooooooooo

in their statue devil;--Ahab did not fall down and worship it like them;
no noooo nooooo noooo;--Nooo noo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo no nooo nooo;

but deliriously transferring its idea to the abhorred white whale, he
noo noooooooooo nooooooooooo noo nooo no noo nooooooo noooo noooo, no

pitted himself, all mutilated, against it. All that most maddens and
nooooo noooooo, noo noooooooo, noooooo no. Noo nooo nooo noooooo noo

torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth with malice
nooooooo; noo nooo noooo no noo nooo no nooooo; noo noooo nooo nooooo

in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the subtle
no no; noo nooo nooooo noo nooooo noo noooo noo noooo; noo noo nooooo

demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly
noooooooo no nooo noo noooooo; noo nooo, no noooo Nooo, nooo noooooo

personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick. He piled upon
noooooooooo, noo nooo noooooooooo nooooooooo no Nooo Nooo. No noooo nooo

the whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt
noo noooo'n noooo nooo noo noo no noo noo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo

by his whole race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a
no noo noooo nooo nooo Nooo nooo; noo nooo, no no noo noooo noo nooo n

mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it.
nooooo, no noooo noo noo noooo'n noooo nooo no.




It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at
No no noo nooooooo nooo nooo noooooooo no noo nooo noo noooooo nooo no

the precise time of his bodily dismemberment. Then, in darting at the
noo noooooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooooooooo. Nooo, no noooooo no noo

monster, knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate,
noooooo, noooo no nooo, no noo noo noooo noooo no n nooooo, nooooooooo,

corporal animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he
nooooooo noooooooo; noo nooo no nooooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noo, no

probably but felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.
nooooooo noo nooo noo noooooooo nooooo nooooooooo, noo noooooo nooo.

Yet, when by this collision forced to turn towards home, and for long
Noo, nooo no nooo noooooooo nooooo no nooo noooooo nooo, noo noo nooo

months of days and weeks, Ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one
nooooo no nooo noo noooo, Nooo noo noooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo no noo

hammock, rounding in mid winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Cape;
noooooo, nooooooo no noo nooooo nooo nooooo, noooooo Nooooooooo Nooo;

then it was, that his torn body and gashed soul bled into one another;
nooo no noo, nooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo noo noooooo;

and so interfusing, made him mad. That it was only then, on the homeward
noo no noooooooooo, nooo noo noo. Nooo no noo nooo nooo, no noo nooooooo

voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomania seized him, seems
nooooo, noooo noo noooooooo, nooo noo noooo noooooooo nooooo noo, noooo

all but certain from the fact that, at intervals during the passage,
noo noo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo, no noooooooo nooooo noo noooooo,

he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed of a leg, yet such vital
no noo n nooooo noooooo; noo, nooooo nooooooo no n noo, noo nooo noooo

strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was moreover intensified
nooooooo noo nooooo no noo Nooooooo noooo, noo noo nooooooo noooooooooo

by his delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him fast, even
no noo nooooooo, nooo noo noooo nooo nooooo no nooo noo nooo, nooo

there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock. In a strait-jacket, he swung
noooo, no no nooooo, nooooo no noo noooooo. No n nooooo-nooooo, no noooo

to the mad rockings of the gales. And, when running into more sufferable
no noo noo nooooooo no noo noooo. Noo, nooo noooooo nooo nooo nooooooooo

latitudes, the ship, with mild stun'sails spread, floated across the
noooooooo, noo nooo, nooo nooo nooo'noooo nooooo, noooooo nooooo noo

tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
nooooooo noooooo, noo, no noo noooooooooo, noo noo noo'n nooooooo nooooo

left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his
nooo nooooo noo nooo noo Nooo Nooo nooooo, noo no nooo noooo nooo noo

dark den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that
nooo noo nooo noo noooooo noooo noo noo; nooo nooo, nooo no nooo nooo

firm, collected front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once
nooo, noooooooo noooo, noooooo nooo, noo nooooo noo nooo nooooo nooo

again; and his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even
noooo; noo noo noooo noooooo Noo noo noooooo noooooo noo noo nooo; nooo

then, Ahab, in his hidden self, raved on. Human madness is oftentimes a
nooo, Nooo, no noo nooooo nooo, noooo no. Noooo noooooo no nooooooooo n

cunning and most feline thing. When you think it fled, it may have but
noooooo noo nooo nooooo noooo. Nooo noo noooo no nooo, no noo nooo noo

become transfigured into some still subtler form. Ahab's full lunacy
nooooo nooooooooooo nooo nooo noooo noooooo nooo. Nooo'n nooo nooooo

subsided not, but deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson,
nooooooo noo, noo noooooooooo nooooooooo; nooo noo nooooooo Nooooo,

when that noble Northman flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the
nooo nooo noooo Nooooooo noooo nooooooo, noo nooooooooooo noooooo noo

Highland gorge. But, as in his narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of
Nooooooo noooo. Noo, no no noo nooooo-noooooo noooooooo, noo noo noo no

Ahab's broad madness had been left behind; so in that broad madness, not
Nooo'n noooo noooooo noo nooo nooo nooooo; no no nooo noooo noooooo, noo

one jot of his great natural intellect had perished. That before living
noo noo no noo noooo noooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo. Nooo nooooo nooooo

agent, now became the living instrument. If such a furious trope may
noooo, noo nooooo noo nooooo nooooooooo. No nooo n noooooo noooo noo

stand, his special lunacy stormed his general sanity, and carried it,
noooo, noo noooooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo nooooo, noo noooooo no,

and turned all its concentred cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far
noo nooooo noo noo nooooooooo nooooo nooo noo noo noo nooo; no nooo noo

from having lost his strength, Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a
nooo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo, Nooo, no nooo noo noo, noo noo noooooo n

thousand fold more potency than ever he had sanely brought to bear upon
nooooooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooo no nooo nooo

any one reasonable object.
noo noo nooooooooo nooooo.




This is much; yet Ahab's larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.
Nooo no nooo; noo Nooo'n nooooo, nooooo, nooooo nooo noooooo nooooooo.

But vain to popularize profundities, and all truth is profound. Winding
Noo nooo no nooooooooo nooooooooooo, noo noo noooo no nooooooo. Noooooo

far down from within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where
noo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooo noooo no nooo nooooo Noooo no Noooo noooo

we here stand--however grand and wonderful, now quit it;--and take your
no nooo noooo--noooooo noooo noo noooooooo, noo nooo no;--noo nooo nooo

way, ye nobler, sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes;
noo, no nooooo, nooooo noooo, no noooo nooo Noooo noooo no Noooooo;

where far beneath the fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root
noooo noo noooooo noo noooooooo nooooo no noo'n noooo noooo, noo nooo

of grandeur, his whole awful essence sits in bearded state; an antique
no nooooooo, noo noooo noooo noooooo nooo no noooooo noooo; no noooooo

buried beneath antiquities, and throned on torsoes! So with a broken
nooooo noooooo noooooooooo, noo noooooo no noooooo! No nooo n nooooo

throne, the great gods mock that captive king; so like a Caryatid, he
nooooo, noo noooo nooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo; no nooo n Nooooooo, no

patient sits, upholding on his frozen brow the piled entablatures of
noooooo nooo, noooooooo no noo nooooo nooo noo noooo nooooooooooo no

ages. Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder souls! question that proud,
nooo. Nooo no nooo noooo, no noooooo, nooooo noooo! nooooooo nooo noooo,

sad king! A family likeness! aye, he did beget ye, ye young exiled
noo nooo! N nooooo nooooooo! noo, no noo noooo no, no noooo nooooo

royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old State-secret come.
noooooooo; noo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo noo noo Noooo-nooooo nooo.




Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely: all my means
Noo, no noo noooo, Nooo noo nooo noooooo no nooo, nooooo: noo no noooo

are sane, my motive and my object mad. Yet without power to kill, or
noo nooo, no nooooo noo no nooooo noo. Noo noooooo noooo no nooo, no

change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did long
nooooo, no nooo noo nooo; no nooooooo nooo nooo no noooooo no noo nooo

dissemble; in some sort, did still. But that thing of his dissembling
noooooooo; no nooo nooo, noo noooo. Noo nooo noooo no noo noooooooooo

was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will determinate.
noo nooo noooooo no noo nooooooooooooo, noo no noo nooo noooooooooo.

Nevertheless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that when
Nooooooooooo, no nooo noo no noooooo no nooo noooooooooo, nooo nooo

with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him
nooo noooo noo no noooooo nooooo no nooo, no Noooooooooo noooooo noo

otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
noooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo, noo nooo no noo noooo, nooo noo

terrible casualty which had overtaken him.
nooooooo nooooooo noooo noo noooooooo noo.




The report of his undeniable delirium at sea was likewise popularly
Noo nooooo no noo nooooooooo nooooooo no noo noo nooooooo noooooooo

ascribed to a kindred cause. And so too, all the added moodiness which
nooooooo no n noooooo noooo. Noo no noo, noo noo noooo noooooooo noooo

always afterwards, to the very day of sailing in the Pequod on the
nooooo nooooooooo, no noo nooo noo no noooooo no noo Nooooo no noo

present voyage, sat brooding on his brow. Nor is it so very unlikely,
noooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo no noo nooo. Noo no no no nooo nooooooo,

that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling voyage, on
nooo noo nooo noooooooooo noo noooooo noo noooooo noooooo nooooo, no

account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that prudent
noooooo no nooo nooo nooooooo, noo noooooooooo nooooo no nooo noooooo

isle were inclined to harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he
nooo nooo nooooooo no nooooo noo noooooo, nooo noo noooo nooo noooooo no

was all the better qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full
noo noo noo nooooo noooooooo noo noo no nooo, noo n noooooo no nooo

of rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whales. Gnawed within and
no nooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooo nooo no nooooo. Nooooo nooooo noo

scorched without, with the infixed, unrelenting fangs of some incurable
nooooooo noooooo, nooo noo noooooo, noooooooooo noooo no nooo noooooooo

idea; such an one, could he be found, would seem the very man to dart
nooo; nooo no noo, noooo no no noooo, noooo nooo noo nooo noo no nooo

his iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all brutes.
noo nooo noo nooo noo noooo noooooo noo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooo.

Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that,
No, no noo noo nooooo noooooo no no noooooooooo noooooooooooo noo nooo,

yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl on
noo nooo no noo noooo nooo noooooooooooo noooooooo no noooo noo nooo no

his underlings to the attack. But be all this as it may, certain it is,
noo nooooooooo no noo nooooo. Noo no noo nooo no no noo, noooooo no no,

that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in
nooo nooo noo noo nooooo no noo nooooooo nooo nooooo no noo noooo no

him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one only
noo, Nooo noo noooooooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooo

and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any one of his
noo noo-nooooooooo nooooo no noooooo noo Noooo Noooo. Noo noo noo no noo

old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him
noo noooooooooooo no noooo noo nooo noooooo no nooo noo noooooo no noo

then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the
nooo, noo nooo noooo noooo nooooo noo noooooooo noooo nooo nooooooo noo

ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on profitable cruises, the
nooo nooo nooo n nooooooo noo! Nooo nooo nooo no nooooooooo noooooo, noo

profit to be counted down in dollars from the mint. He was intent on an
nooooo no no noooooo nooo no noooooo nooo noo nooo. No noo nooooo no no

audacious, immitigable, and supernatural revenge.
noooooooo, noooooooooo, noo nooooooooooo noooooo.




Here, then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with curses a
Nooo, nooo, noo nooo nooo-nooooo, noooooo noo noo, noooooo nooo nooooo n

Job's whale round the world, at the head of a crew, too, chiefly made
Noo'n noooo noooo noo noooo, no noo nooo no n nooo, noo, noooooo nooo

up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and cannibals--morally enfeebled
no no noooooo noooooooo, noo noooooooo, noo noooooooo--noooooo noooooooo

also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness in
nooo, no noo nooooooooooo no nooo noooooo nooooo no noooo-nooooooooo no

Starbuck, the invunerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in
Nooooooo, noo noooooooooo noooooo no nooooooooooo noo nooooooooooo no

Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask. Such a crew, so officered,
Noooo, noo noo noooooooo nooooooooo no Noooo. Nooo n nooo, no noooooooo,

seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal fatality to help him
nooooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooooo no nooo nooooooo nooooooo no nooo noo

to his monomaniac revenge. How it was that they so aboundingly responded
no noo nooooooooo noooooo. Noo no noo nooo nooo no noooooooooo noooooooo

to the old man's ire--by what evil magic their souls were possessed,
no noo noo noo'n noo--no nooo nooo noooo noooo noooo nooo noooooooo,

that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale as much
nooo no noooo noo nooo nooooo nooooo nooooo; noo Noooo Noooo no nooo

their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be--what the White
noooo nooooooooooo noo no noo; noo noo nooo nooo no no--nooo noo Noooo

Whale was to them, or how to their unconscious understandings, also, in
Noooo noo no nooo, no noo no noooo noooooooooo nooooooooooooo, nooo, no

some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon
nooo noo, noooooooooo noo, no noooo nooo nooooo noo noooooo noooo noooo

of the seas of life,--all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than
no noo nooo no nooo,--noo nooo no noooooo, noooo no no nooo nooooo nooo

Ishmael can go. The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one
Noooooo noo no. Noo nooooooooooo noooo nooo noooo no no noo, noo noo noo

tell whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his
nooo noooooo noooo noo noooo no noo nooo nooooooo, noooooo noooo no noo

pick? Who does not feel the irresistible arm drag? What skiff in tow
nooo? Noo nooo noo nooo noo nooooooooooo noo nooo? Nooo noooo no noo

of a seventy-four can stand still? For one, I gave myself up to the
no n noooooo-nooo noo noooo noooo? Noo noo, N nooo nooooo no no noo

abandonment of the time and the place; but while yet all a-rush to
noooooooooo no noo nooo noo noo noooo; noo noooo noo noo n-nooo no

encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute but the deadliest
noooooooo noo noooo, noooo noo nooooo no nooo noooo noo noo noooooooo

ill.
noo.










CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness of The Whale.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooooo no Noo Noooo.







What the white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he
Nooo noo noooo noooo noo no Nooo, noo nooo nooooo; nooo, no noooo, no

was to me, as yet remains unsaid.
noo no no, no noo noooooo nooooo.




Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, which
Noooo nooo noooo nooo noooooo nooooooooooooo nooooooo Nooo Nooo, noooo

could not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some alarm, there
noooo noo noo nooooooooooo nooooo no noo noo'n nooo nooo noooo, noooo

was another thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him,
noo noooooo noooooo, no nooooo noooo, nooooooo nooooo nooooooooo noo,

which at times by its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; and
noooo no noooo no noo noooooooo nooooooooo noooooooooo noo noo nooo; noo

yet so mystical and well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost despair of
noo no nooooooo noo nooo nooo noooooooo noo no, nooo N nooooo noooooo no

putting it in a comprehensible form. It was the whiteness of the whale
noooooo no no n nooooooooooooo nooo. No noo noo noooooooo no noo noooo

that above all things appalled me. But how can I hope to explain myself
nooo noooo noo nooooo nooooooo no. Noo noo noo N nooo no noooooo nooooo

here; and yet, in some dim, random way, explain myself I must, else all
nooo; noo noo, no nooo noo, nooooo noo, noooooo nooooo N nooo, nooo noo

these chapters might be naught.
noooo nooooooo noooo no nooooo.




Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances beauty, as
Nooooo no nooo noooooo noooooo, noooooooo nooooooooo nooooooo nooooo, no

if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles, japonicas,
no noooooooo nooo noooooo nooooo no noo noo, no no noooooo, noooooooo,

and pearls; and though various nations have in some way recognised a
noo nooooo; noo nooooo noooooo noooooo nooo no nooo noo nooooooooo n

certain royal preeminence in this hue; even the barbaric, grand old
noooooo noooo noooooooooo no nooo noo; nooo noo nooooooo, noooo noo

kings of Pegu placing the title "Lord of the White Elephants" above all
noooo no Nooo noooooo noo noooo "Nooo no noo Noooo Noooooooo" noooo noo

their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the modern kings
noooo noooo nooooooooooo noooooooooo no nooooooo; noo noo nooooo noooo

of Siam unfurling the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard;
no Nooo noooooooo noo nooo nooo-noooo noooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo;

and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of a snow-white charger;
noo noo Nooooooooo nooo noooooo noo noo nooooo no n nooo-noooo noooooo;

and the great Austrian Empire, Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome,
noo noo noooo Nooooooo Nooooo, Noooooooo, nooo no noooooooooo Nooo,

having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue; and though this
nooooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo noo; noo nooooo nooo

pre-eminence in it applies to the human race itself, giving the white
noo-nooooooo no no noooooo no noo noooo nooo nooooo, nooooo noo noooo

man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe; and though, besides, all
noo noooo nooooooooo nooo noooo noooo noooo; noo nooooo, noooooo, noo

this, whiteness has been even made significant of gladness, for among
nooo, noooooooo noo nooo nooo nooo noooooooooo no nooooooo, noo noooo

the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; and though in other mortal
noo Nooooo n noooo noooo nooooo n nooooo noo; noo nooooo no noooo nooooo

sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is made the emblem of many
nooooooooo noo nooooooooooo, nooo nooo noo no nooo noo nooooo no nooo

touching, noble things--the innocence of brides, the benignity of age;
nooooooo, noooo nooooo--noo noooooooo no nooooo, noo noooooooo no noo;

though among the Red Men of America the giving of the white belt
nooooo noooo noo Noo Noo no Noooooo noo nooooo no noo noooo nooo

of wampum was the deepest pledge of honour; though in many climes,
no nooooo noo noo noooooo nooooo no nooooo; nooooo no nooo nooooo,

whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge,
noooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo no Noooooo no noo nooooo no noo Noooo,

and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by
noo noooooooooo no noo noooo noooo no noooo noo nooooo noooo no

milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most
nooo-noooo nooooo; nooooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooooo no noo nooo

august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness
nooooo noooooooo no noo nooo nooo noo nooooo no noo nooooo nooooooooooo

and power; by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked flame being
noo noooo; no noo Noooooo nooo noooooooooo, noo noooo nooooo noooo noooo

held the holiest on the altar; and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove
nooo noo noooooo no noo noooo; noo no noo Noooo noooooooooo, Noooo Nooo

himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; and though to the
noooooo noooo nooo noooooooo no n nooo-noooo nooo; noo nooooo no noo

noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred White Dog was
noooo Nooooooo, noo noooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo Noooo Noo noo

by far the holiest festival of their theology, that spotless, faithful
no noo noo noooooo nooooooo no noooo nooooooo, nooo nooooooo, nooooooo

creature being held the purest envoy they could send to the Great Spirit
nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooooo noooo nooo noooo nooo no noo Noooo Nooooo

with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though directly from
nooo noo nooooo noooooo no noooo noo nooooooo; noo nooooo nooooooo nooo

the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name of
noo Noooo nooo noo noooo, noo Noooooooo noooooo nooooo noo nooo no

one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the
noo nooo no noooo nooooo noooooo, noo noo no noooo, nooo noooooo noo

cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is
noooooo; noo nooooo noooo noo nooo noooo no noo Nooooo noooo, noooo no

specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though
noooooooo nooooooo no noo noooooooooo no noo Noooooo no noo Nooo; nooooo

in the Vision of St. John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and
no noo Nooooo no No. Nooo, noooo noooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo, noo

the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great-white
noo nooo-noo-nooooo nooooo noooo noooooo no noooo nooooo noo noooo-noooo

throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all
nooooo, noo noo Nooo Noo nooo noooooo noooo noooo nooo nooo; noo noo noo

these accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honourable,
noooo noooooooooo nooooooooooo, nooo nooooooo no noooo, noo nooooooooo,

and sublime, there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea
noo noooooo, noooo noo noooo no noooooo noooooooo no noo noooooooo nooo

of this hue, which strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness
no nooo noo, noooo noooooo nooo no noooo no noo nooo nooo nooo noooooo

which affrights in blood.
noooo noooooooo no noooo.




This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
Nooo noooooo noooooo no no, noooo nooooo noo noooooo no noooooooo, nooo

divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object
nooooooo nooo nooo nooooo nooooooooooo, noo noooooo nooo noo nooooo

terrible in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds.
nooooooo no nooooo, no nooooooo nooo nooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo.

Witness the white bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics;
Noooooo noo noooo nooo no noo noooo, noo noo noooo noooo no noo noooooo;

what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent
nooo noo noooo nooooo, noooo noooooooo noooo nooo noo nooooooooooo

horrors they are? That ghastly whiteness it is which imparts such an
noooooo nooo noo? Nooo noooooo noooooooo no no noooo noooooo nooo no

abhorrent mildness, even more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb
noooooooo nooooooo, nooo nooo noooooooo nooo nooooooo, no noo nooo

gloating of their aspect. So that not the fierce-fanged tiger in his
nooooooo no noooo nooooo. No nooo noo noo nooooo-nooooo noooo no noo

heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white-shrouded bear or
nooooooo nooo noo no noooooo noooooo no noo noooo-nooooooo nooo no

shark.*
noooo.*







*With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him
*Nooo noooooooo no noo Noooo nooo, no noo nooooooo no noooo no noo

who would fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not
noo noooo nooo no noooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooo, nooo no no noo

the whiteness, separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable
noo noooooooo, nooooooooo nooooooo, noooo noooooooo noo noooooooooo

hideousness of that brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness,
noooooooooo no nooo noooo; noo, nooooooo, nooo nooooooooo noooooooooo,

it might be said, only rises from the circumstance, that the
no noooo no nooo, nooo noooo nooo noo nooooooooooo, nooo noo

irresponsible ferociousness of the creature stands invested in the
noooooooooooo noooooooooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo nooooooo no noo

fleece of celestial innocence and love; and hence, by bringing together
nooooo no noooooooo noooooooo noo nooo; noo noooo, no nooooooo nooooooo

two such opposite emotions in our minds, the Polar bear frightens us
noo nooo nooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo, noo Noooo nooo noooooooo no

with so unnatural a contrast. But even assuming all this to be true;
nooo no noooooooo n nooooooo. Noo nooo nooooooo noo nooo no no nooo;

yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have that intensified
noo, nooo no noo noo noo noooooooo, noo noooo noo nooo nooo noooooooooo

terror.
nooooo.




As for the white shark, the white gliding ghostliness of repose in that
No noo noo noooo noooo, noo noooo noooooo noooooooooo no nooooo no nooo

creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely tallies with the
nooooooo, nooo nooooo no noo nooooooo noooo, noooooooo noooooo nooo noo

same quality in the Polar quadruped. This peculiarity is most vividly
nooo noooooo no noo Noooo noooooooo. Nooo noooooooooo no nooo noooooo

hit by the French in the name they bestow upon that fish. The Romish
noo no noo Nooooo no noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooo. Noo Nooooo

mass for the dead begins with "Requiem eternam" (eternal rest), whence
nooo noo noo nooo nooooo nooo "Noooooo noooooo" (noooooo nooo), nooooo

REQUIEM denominating the mass itself, and any other funeral music. Now,
NOOOOOO nooooooooooo noo nooo nooooo, noo noo noooo noooooo noooo. Noo,

in allusion to the white, silent stillness of death in this shark, and
no nooooooo no noo noooo, nooooo noooooooo no noooo no nooo noooo, noo

the mild deadliness of his habits, the French call him REQUIN.
noo nooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo, noo Nooooo nooo noo NOOOOO.







Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritual
Noooooo nooo no noo noooooooo, nooooo nooo noooo nooooo no noooooooo

wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in all
nooooooooo noo nooo noooo, no noooo nooo noooo noooooo noooo no noo

imaginations? Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God's great,
nooooooooooo? Noo Noooooooo noooo noooo nooo noooo; noo Noo'n noooo,

unflattering laureate, Nature.*
nooooooooooo nooooooo, Nooooo.*







*I remember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a prolonged
*N nooooooo noo noooo noooooooo N nooo noo. No noo nooooo n noooooooo

gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my forenoon watch
nooo, no nooooo nooo nooo noo Noooooooo nooo. Nooo no nooooooo noooo

below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the
noooo, N nooooooo no noo noooooooooo nooo; noo noooo, nooooo nooo noo

main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
nooo noooooo, N noo n noooo, nooooooo noooo no noooooooo noooooooo, noo

with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth
nooo n nooooo, Noooo nooo noooooo. No noooooooo, no nooooo noooo

its vast archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark. Wondrous
noo nooo noooooooo noooo, no no no noooooo nooo nooo noo. Nooooooo

flutterings and throbbings shook it. Though bodily unharmed, it uttered
noooooooooo noo nooooooooo noooo no. Nooooo nooooo nooooooo, no noooooo

cries, as some king's ghost in supernatural distress. Through its
noooo, no nooo nooo'n noooo no nooooooooooo nooooooo. Noooooo noo

inexpressible, strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took
noooooooooooo, noooooo nooo, noooooooo N nooooo no noooooo noooo nooo

hold of God. As Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself; the white
nooo no Noo. No Noooooo nooooo noo nooooo, N noooo nooooo; noo noooo

thing was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled
noooo noo no noooo, noo noooo no nooo, noo no noooo noo nooo nooooo

waters, I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of
nooooo, N noo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo nooooooo no nooooooooo noo no

towns. Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only
noooo. Nooo N noooo no nooo noooooo no noooooo. N nooooo nooo, noo nooo

hint, the things that darted through me then. But at last I awoke; and
nooo, noo nooooo nooo nooooo noooooo no nooo. Noo no nooo N noooo; noo

turning, asked a sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney!
noooooo, noooo n nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo. N noooo, no noooooo. Noooo!

never had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious
noooo noo noooo nooo nooo nooooo; no no noooooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo

thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, I
noooo no noooooo noooooo no noo nooooo! noooo! Noo nooo nooo noooo, N

learned that goney was some seaman's name for albatross. So that by no
noooooo nooo noooo noo nooo nooooo'n nooo noo noooooooo. No nooo no no

possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had aught to do with those
noooooooooo noooo Noooooooo'n nooo Noooo nooo noo noooo no no nooo noooo

mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon our
nooooooo noooooooooo noooo nooo nooo, nooo N noo nooo nooo nooo noo

deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to be
nooo. Noo noooooo noo N nooo nooo noo Noooo, noo nooo noo nooo no no

an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a little
no noooooooo. Noo, no nooooo nooo, N no noo nooooooooo noooooo n nooooo

brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.
nooooooo noo noooo noooo no noo nooo noo noo nooo.




I assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird
N nooooo, nooo, nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo noooooooo no noo nooo

chiefly lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this,
noooooo noooo noo nooooo no noo noooo; n noooo noo nooo noooooo no nooo,

that by a solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses;
nooo no n nooooooo no noooo noooo noo noooo nooooo nooo noooooooooo;

and these I have frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I
noo noooo N nooo nooooooooo nooo, noo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo no nooo N

beheld the Antarctic fowl.
nooooo noo Noooooooo nooo.




But how had the mystic thing been caught? Whisper it not, and I will
Noo noo noo noo nooooo noooo nooo nooooo? Noooooo no noo, noo N nooo

tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.
nooo; nooo n noooooooooo nooo noo nooo, no noo nooo noooooo no noo noo.

At last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern
No nooo noo Noooooo nooo n noooooo no no; noooo n nooooooo, nooooooo

tally round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting
noooo noooo noo nooo, nooo noo nooo'n nooo noo noooo; noo nooo noooooo

it escape. But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was
no nooooo. Noo N noooo noo, nooo nooooooo noooo, noooo noo noo, noo

taken off in Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding,
noooo noo no Nooooo, nooo noo noooo nooo nooo no nooo noo nooo-noooooo,

the invoking, and adoring cherubim!
noo nooooooo, noo noooooo nooooooo!







Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of
Nooo nooooo no noo Noooooo nooooo noo Nooooo nooooooooo no nooo no

the White Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger,
noo Noooo Noooo no noo Nooooooo; n noooooooooo nooo-noooo noooooo,

large-eyed, small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a
noooo-nooo, noooo-nooooo, noooo-noooooo, noo nooo noo noooooo no n

thousand monarchs in his lofty, overscorning carriage. He was the
nooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo, nooooooooooo nooooooo. No noo noo

elected Xerxes of vast herds of wild horses, whose pastures in those
noooooo Nooooo no nooo noooo no nooo nooooo, noooo nooooooo no noooo

days were only fenced by the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies. At
nooo nooo nooo nooooo no noo Noooo Noooooooo noo noo Noooooooooo. No

their flaming head he westward trooped it like that chosen star which
noooo noooooo nooo no nooooooo noooooo no nooo nooo nooooo nooo noooo

every evening leads on the hosts of light. The flashing cascade of his
noooo noooooo noooo no noo noooo no noooo. Noo nooooooo noooooo no noo

mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings more
nooo, noo noooooo noooo no noo nooo, nooooooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo

resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have furnished him. A
noooooooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo-noooooo noooo nooo noooooooo noo. N

most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen, western
nooo nooooooo noo noooooooooooo nooooooooo no nooo nooooooo, noooooo

world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
noooo, noooo no noo nooo no noo noo nooooooo noo noooooo noooooo noo

glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,
noooooo no noooo nooooooo noooo nooo Nooo nooooo nooooooo no n noo,

bluff-browed and fearless as this mighty steed. Whether marching amid
noooo-nooooo noo nooooooo no nooo nooooo noooo. Noooooo nooooooo nooo

his aides and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly
noo noooo noo nooooooo no noo noo no noooooooo noooooo nooo noooooooo

streamed it over the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his
nooooooo no nooo noo nooooo, nooo no Nooo; no noooooo nooo noo

circumambient subjects browsing all around at the horizon, the White
noooooooooooo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo, noo Noooo

Steed gallopingly reviewed them with warm nostrils reddening through his
Noooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo noooooo noo

cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he presented himself, always to the
nooo noooooooo; no nooooooo nooooo no noooooooo noooooo, nooooo no noo

bravest Indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe. Nor
noooooo Noooooo no noo noo nooooo no noooooooo noooooooo noo noo. Noo

can it be questioned from what stands on legendary record of this noble
noo no no nooooooooo nooo nooo nooooo no noooooooo nooooo no nooo noooo

horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so clothed him
noooo, nooo no noo noo noooooooo noooooooo noooooo, noooo no noooooo noo

with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it which, though
nooo nooooooooo; noo nooo nooo nooooooooo noo nooo no no noooo, nooooo

commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless terror.
nooooooooo noooooo, no noo nooo nooo nooooooo n noooooo nooooooo nooooo.




But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that
Noo noooo noo noooo noooooooo noooo nooo noooooooo noooo noo nooo

accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and
noooooooo noo noooooo noooo noooo noooooo no no noo Noooo Noooo noo

Albatross.
Noooooooo.




What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks
Nooo no no nooo no noo Nooooo noo no nooooooooo nooooo noo noooo nooooo

the eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin! It
noo noo, no nooo noooooooo no no noooooo no noo noo nooo noo noo! No

is that whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name
no nooo noooooooo noooo noooooo noo, n noooo noooooooo no noo nooo

he bears. The Albino is as well made as other men--has no substantive
no noooo. Noo Nooooo no no nooo nooo no noooo noo--noo no noooooooooo

deformity--and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him
noooooooo--noo noo nooo nooo nooooo no noo-noooooooo noooooooo noooo noo

more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this be so?
nooo noooooooo noooooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooo. Noo nooooo nooo no no?




Nor, in quite other aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but
Noo, no noooo noooo noooooo, nooo Nooooo no noo noooo nooooooo noo

not the less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces
noo noo nooo noooooooo nooooooo, nooo no nooooo noooo noo nooooo

this crowning attribute of the terrible. From its snowy aspect, the
nooo nooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo. Nooo noo noooo nooooo, noo

gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White
nooooooooo noooo no noo Nooooooo Nooo noo nooo noooooooooo noo Noooo

Squall. Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice
Nooooo. Noo, no nooo nooooooo noooooooo, noo noo noo no noooo nooooo

omitted so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens the effect of
noooooo no nooooo no noooooooo. Noo nooooo no noooooooo noo nooooo no

that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol of their
nooo noooooo no Noooooooo, nooo, nooooo no noo noooo nooooo no noooo

faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in the
noooooo, noo noooooooo Noooo Noooo no Noooo nooooo noooo noooooo no noo

market-place!
nooooo-noooo!




Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary experience of all
Noo, no nooo nooooo, nooo noo nooooo, nooooooooo nooooooooo no noo

mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. It
noooooo nooo no nooo noooooo no noo noooooooooooooo no nooo noo. No

cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
nooooo nooo no noooooo, nooo noo noo noooooo noooooo no noo nooooo no

the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering
noo nooo noooo nooo nooooo noo noooo, no noo nooooo nooooo noooooooo

there; as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of
noooo; no no nooooo nooo nooooo nooo no nooo nooo noo noooo no

consternation in the other world, as of mortal trepidation here. And
noooooooooooo no noo noooo noooo, no no nooooo noooooooooo nooo. Noo

from that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud
nooo nooo nooooo no noo nooo, no nooooo noo nooooooooo noo no noo nooooo

in which we wrap them. Nor even in our superstitions do we fail to
no noooo no nooo nooo. Noo nooo no noo noooooooooooo no no nooo no

throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in a
noooo noo nooo noooo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo; noo nooooo nooooo no n

milk-white fog--Yea, while these terrors seize us, let us add, that even
nooo-noooo noo--Noo, noooo noooo noooooo noooo no, noo no noo, nooo nooo

the king of terrors, when personified by the evangelist, rides on his
noo nooo no noooooo, nooo noooooooooo no noo nooooooooo, noooo no noo

pallid horse.
nooooo noooo.




Therefore, in his other moods, symbolize whatever grand or gracious
Noooooooo, no noo noooo noooo, noooooooo nooooooo noooo no nooooooo

thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
noooo no nooo no noooooooo, no noo noo nooo nooo no noo noooooooooo

idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.
noooooooo nooooooooooo no noooo no n nooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo.




But though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to
Noo nooooo noooooo noooooo nooo noooo no noooo, noo no nooooo noo no

account for it? To analyse it, would seem impossible. Can we, then,
noooooo noo no? No noooooo no, noooo nooo nooooooooo. Noo no, nooo,

by the citation of some of those instances wherein this thing of
no noo nooooooo no nooo no noooo noooooooo noooooo nooo noooo no

whiteness--though for the time either wholly or in great part stripped
noooooooo--nooooo noo noo nooo nooooo nooooo no no noooo nooo nooooooo

of all direct associations calculated to impart to it aught fearful,
no noo nooooo nooooooooooo nooooooooo no nooooo no no noooo noooooo,

but nevertheless, is found to exert over us the same sorcery, however
noo nooooooooooo, no noooo no noooo nooo no noo nooo noooooo, noooooo

modified;--can we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct us
nooooooo;--noo no nooo nooo no noooo nooo nooo nooooo nooo no noooooo no

to the hidden cause we seek?
no noo nooooo noooo no nooo?




Let us try. But in a matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety,
Noo no noo. Noo no n nooooo nooo nooo, nooooooo noooooo no nooooooo,

and without imagination no man can follow another into these halls. And
noo noooooo noooooooooo no noo noo nooooo noooooo nooo noooo noooo. Noo

though, doubtless, some at least of the imaginative impressions about
nooooo, noooooooo, nooo no noooo no noo noooooooooo noooooooooo noooo

to be presented may have been shared by most men, yet few perhaps were
no no noooooooo noo nooo nooo nooooo no nooo noo, noo noo noooooo nooo

entirely conscious of them at the time, and therefore may not be able to
nooooooo noooooooo no nooo no noo nooo, noo noooooooo noo noo no nooo no

recall them now.
nooooo nooo noo.




Why to the man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but loosely
Noo no noo noo no noooooooo nooooooo, noo noooooo no no noo noooooo

acquainted with the peculiar character of the day, does the bare mention
nooooooooo nooo noo nooooooo noooooooo no noo noo, nooo noo nooo noooooo

of Whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long, dreary, speechless
no Noooooooooo noooooo no noo noooo nooo nooo, nooooo, nooooooooo

processions of slow-pacing pilgrims, down-cast and hooded with
noooooooooo no nooo-nooooo nooooooo, nooo-nooo noo nooooo nooo

new-fallen snow? Or, to the unread, unsophisticated Protestant of the
noo-nooooo nooo? No, no noo nooooo, noooooooooooooo Nooooooooo no noo

Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a White Friar or
Nooooo Nooooooo Nooooo, noo nooo noo noooooo noooooo no n Noooo Noooo no

a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?
n Noooo Noo, noooo nooo no noooooo nooooo no noo nooo?




Or what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and
No nooo no noooo noooo nooo noo nooooooooo no noooooooo nooooooo noo

kings (which will not wholly account for it) that makes the White
noooo (noooo nooo noo nooooo noooooo noo no) nooo noooo noo Noooo

Tower of London tell so much more strongly on the imagination of
Noooo no Nooooo nooo no nooo nooo nooooooo no noo noooooooooo no

an untravelled American, than those other storied structures, its
no noooooooooo Nooooooo, nooo noooo noooo noooooo nooooooooo, noo

neighbors--the Byward Tower, or even the Bloody? And those sublimer
noooooooo--noo Nooooo Noooo, no nooo noo Nooooo? Noo noooo nooooooo

towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire, whence, in peculiar moods,
nooooo, noo Noooo Noooooooo no Noo Noooooooo, nooooo, no nooooooo noooo,

comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare mention of
noooo nooo nooooooo noooooooooo nooo noo nooo no noo nooo noooooo no

that name, while the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is full of a soft,
nooo nooo, noooo noo noooooo no Nooooooo'n Nooo Noooo no nooo no n nooo,

dewy, distant dreaminess? Or why, irrespective of all latitudes and
nooo, noooooo nooooooooo? No noo, nooooooooooo no noo noooooooo noo

longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a spectralness
nooooooooo, nooo noo nooo no noo Noooo Noo noooo nooo n nooooooooooo

over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal
nooo noo noooo, noooo nooo no noo Nooooo Noo noooo no nooo nooooo

thoughts of long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by
nooooooo no nooo noooooooo nooo nooooooooo no noo noooo, nooooooo no

the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets? Or, to choose a wholly
noo nooooooo noo noo noooooooo no noooooo? No, no nooooo n nooooo

unsubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, in reading
noooooooooooo nooooooo, nooooo noooooooo no noo noooo, noo, no noooooo

the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does "the tall pale man" of the
noo noo noooo noooo no Noooooo Nooooo, nooo "noo nooo nooo noo" no noo

Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides through the
Noooo noooooo, noooo nooooooooo nooooo nooooooooooo nooooo noooooo noo

green of the groves--why is this phantom more terrible than all the
noooo no noo nooooo--noo no nooo noooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noo

whooping imps of the Blocksburg?
nooooooo nooo no noo Nooooooooo?




Nor is it, altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling
Noo no no, nooooooooo, noo noooooooooo no noo noooooooo-nooooooo

earthquakes; nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor the
noooooooooo; noo noo nooooooooo no noo noooooo nooo; noo noo

tearlessness of arid skies that never rain; nor the sight of her wide
nooooooooooo no nooo noooo nooo noooo nooo; noo noo noooo no noo nooo

field of leaning spires, wrenched cope-stones, and crosses all adroop
noooo no noooooo nooooo, nooooooo nooo-nooooo, noo noooooo noo nooooo

(like canted yards of anchored fleets); and her suburban avenues of
(nooo nooooo noooo no nooooooo nooooo); noo noo nooooooo noooooo no

house-walls lying over upon each other, as a tossed pack of cards;--it
noooo-noooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noooo, no n nooooo nooo no noooo;--no

is not these things alone which make tearless Lima, the strangest,
no noo noooo nooooo noooo noooo nooo nooooooo Nooo, noo noooooooo,

saddest city thou can'st see. For Lima has taken the white veil; and
noooooo nooo nooo noo'no noo. Noo Nooo noo noooo noo noooo nooo; noo

there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro,
noooo no n nooooo nooooo no nooo noooooooo no noo noo. Noo no Noooooo,

this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the cheerful
nooo noooooooo noooo noo noooo noo nooo noo; nooooo noo noo nooooooo

greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the rigid
noooooooo no nooooooo noooo; noooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooooo noo noooo

pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.
nooooo no no nooooooo nooo noooo noo noo noooooooooo.




I know that, to the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness
N nooo nooo, no noo nooooo nooooooooooo, nooo nooooooooo no noooooooo

is not confessed to be the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of
no noo noooooooo no no noo noooo noooo no nooooooooooo noo nooooo no

objects otherwise terrible; nor to the unimaginative mind is there aught
noooooo noooooooo nooooooo; noo no noo noooooooooooo nooo no noooo noooo

of terror in those appearances whose awfulness to another mind almost
no nooooo no noooo noooooooooo noooo noooooooo no noooooo nooo nooooo

solely consists in this one phenomenon, especially when exhibited under
nooooo nooooooo no nooo noo nooooooooo, nooooooooo nooo noooooooo noooo

any form at all approaching to muteness or universality. What I mean
noo nooo no noo noooooooooo no nooooooo no nooooooooooo. Nooo N nooo

by these two statements may perhaps be respectively elucidated by the
no noooo noo nooooooooo noo noooooo no nooooooooooo nooooooooo no noo

following examples.
noooooooo nooooooo.




First: The mariner, when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands, if by
Noooo: Noo noooooo, nooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo no noooooo noooo, no no

night he hear the roar of breakers, starts to vigilance, and feels just
noooo no nooo noo nooo no nooooooo, nooooo no noooooooo, noo noooo nooo

enough of trepidation to sharpen all his faculties; but under precisely
nooooo no noooooooooo no noooooo noo noo noooooooo; noo noooo noooooooo

similar circumstances, let him be called from his hammock to view his
noooooo noooooooooooo, noo noo no nooooo nooo noo noooooo no nooo noo

ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness--as if from
nooo noooooo noooooo n nooooooo noo no noooo noooooooo--no no nooo

encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming round
nooooooooo noooooooo nooooo no nooooo noooo noooo nooo nooooooo noooo

him, then he feels a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded phantom
noo, nooo no noooo n nooooo, noooooooooooo noooo; noo nooooooo noooooo

of the whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost; in vain the
no noo nooooooo nooooo no nooooooo no noo no n nooo noooo; no nooo noo

lead assures him he is still off soundings; heart and helm they both go
nooo noooooo noo no no noooo noo noooooooo; noooo noo nooo nooo nooo no

down; he never rests till blue water is under him again. Yet where is
nooo; no noooo noooo nooo nooo noooo no noooo noo noooo. Noo noooo no

the mariner who will tell thee, "Sir, it was not so much the fear of
noo noooooo noo nooo nooo nooo, "Noo, no noo noo no nooo noo nooo no

striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous whiteness that so
nooooooo nooooo noooo, no noo nooo no nooo noooooo noooooooo nooo no

stirred me?"
noooooo no?"




Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the continual sight of the
Nooooo: No noo nooooo Nooooo no Nooo, noo noooooooo noooo no noo

snowhowdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except, perhaps, in the
nooooooooooo Noooo noooooo nooooo no noooo, nooooo, noooooo, no noo

mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at such vast
nooo nooooooo no noo noooooo noooooo nooooooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooo

altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be
noooooooo, noo noo noooooo noooooo no nooo n noooooooooo no noooo no

to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes. Much the same is it with the
no nooo noooooo no nooo noooooo noooooooo. Nooo noo nooo no no nooo noo

backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an
nooooooooooo no noo Nooo, noo nooo noooooooooo nooooooooooo noooo no

unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig
noooooooo noooooo noooooo nooo nooooo nooo, no nooooo no nooo no nooo

to break the fixed trance of whiteness. Not so the sailor, beholding the
no noooo noo noooo nooooo no noooooooo. Noo no noo nooooo, noooooooo noo

scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal trick
noooooo no noo Noooooooo nooo; noooo no noooo, no nooo nooooooo noooo

of legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and half
no noooooooooo no noo nooooo no noooo noo noo, no, noooooooo noo nooo

shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery,
noooooooooo, noooooo no nooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo nooooo,

views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with its lean
noooo nooo noooo n noooooooo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo

ice monuments and splintered crosses.
noo noooooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo.




But thou sayest, methinks that white-lead chapter about whiteness is but
Noo nooo nooooo, nooooooo nooo noooo-nooo noooooo noooo noooooooo no noo

a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou surrenderest to a hypo,
n noooo nooo nooo noo nooo n nooooo nooo; nooo nooooooooooo no n nooo,

Ishmael.
Noooooo.




Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled in some peaceful valley of
Nooo no, noo nooo nooooo noooo nooo, nooooo no nooo nooooooo nooooo no

Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey--why is it that upon the
Noooooo, noo noooooo nooo noo nooooo no nooo--noo no no nooo nooo noo

sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him, so that
nooooooo noo, no noo noo noooo n noooo noooooo nooo nooooo noo, no nooo

he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal muskiness--why
no nooooo nooo noo no, noo nooo nooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooooo--noo

will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in phrensies
nooo no noooo, noooo, noo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noo nooooo no noooooooo

of affright? There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild
no nooooooo? Noooo no no noooooooooo no noo no noo noooooo no nooo

creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he
noooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo nooo, no nooo noo noooooo noooooooo no

smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of
nooooo nooooo nooooo no noo nooooooo nooooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo no

former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black
nooooo nooooo; noo nooo noooo no, nooo Noo Noooooo nooo, no noo noooo

bisons of distant Oregon?
nooooo no noooooo Nooooo?




No; but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the instinct of the
No; noo nooo nooo noooooooo nooo no n nooo noooo, noo nooooooo no noo

knowledge of the demonism in the world. Though thousands of miles from
noooooooo no noo nooooooo no noo noooo. Nooooo noooooooo no noooo nooo

Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the rending, goring bison
Nooooo, noooo nooo no nooooo nooo nooooo nooo, noo noooooo, nooooo noooo

herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the prairies, which
noooo noo no noooooo no no noo nooooooo nooo nooo no noo nooooooo, noooo

this instant they may be trampling into dust.
nooo noooooo nooo noo no noooooooo nooo nooo.




Thus, then, the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings
Nooo, nooo, noo noooooo nooooooo no n noooo noo; noo noooo noooooooo

of the festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the
no noo noooooooo nooooo no noooooooo; noo nooooooo noooooooo no noo

windrowed snows of prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking
noooooooo noooo no nooooooo; noo noooo, no Noooooo, noo no noo noooooo

of that buffalo robe to the frightened colt!
no nooo noooooo nooo no noo nooooooooo nooo!




Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of which the mystic
Nooooo noooooo noooo noooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo no noooo noo nooooo

sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt, somewhere
nooo noooo noooo nooo noooo; noo nooo no, no nooo noo nooo, noooooooo

those things must exist. Though in many of its aspects this visible
noooo nooooo nooo noooo. Nooooo no nooo no noo noooooo nooo noooooo

world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.
noooo noooo nooooo no nooo, noo noooooooo noooooo nooo nooooo no nooooo.




But not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and
Noo noo noo nooo no nooooo noo noooooooooo no nooo noooooooo, noo

learned why it appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange
noooooo noo no noooooo nooo nooo noooo no noo nooo; noo nooo noooooo

and far more portentous--why, as we have seen, it is at once the
noo noo nooo nooooooooo--noo, no no nooo nooo, no no no nooo noo

most meaning symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of the
nooo noooooo nooooo no noooooooo nooooo, noo, noo nooo nooo no noo

Christian's Deity; and yet should be as it is, the intensifying agent in
Noooooooo'n Noooo; noo noo nooooo no no no no, noo nooooooooooo noooo no

things the most appalling to mankind.
nooooo noo nooo noooooooo no noooooo.




Is it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids
No no nooo no noo nooooooooooooo no noooooo noooo noo noooooooo noooo

and immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the
noo noooooooooo no noo nooooooo, noo nooo noooo no nooo nooooo nooo noo

thought of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky
noooooo no nooooooooooo, nooo noooooooo noo noooo nooooo no noo noooo

way? Or is it, that as in essence whiteness is not so much a colour as
noo? No no no, nooo no no noooooo noooooooo no noo no nooo n nooooo no

the visible absence of colour; and at the same time the concrete of all
noo noooooo noooooo no nooooo; noo no noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo

colours; is it for these reasons that there is such a dumb blankness,
noooooo; no no noo noooo noooooo nooo noooo no nooo n nooo noooooooo,

full of meaning, in a wide landscape of snows--a colourless, all-colour
nooo no noooooo, no n nooo noooooooo no noooo--n nooooooooo, noo-nooooo

of atheism from which we shrink? And when we consider that other theory
no noooooo nooo noooo no nooooo? Noo nooo no nooooooo nooo noooo nooooo

of the natural philosophers, that all other earthly hues--every stately
no noo noooooo nooooooooooo, nooo noo noooo noooooo nooo--noooo noooooo

or lovely emblazoning--the sweet tinges of sunset skies and woods; yea,
no nooooo noooooooooo--noo noooo nooooo no nooooo noooo noo noooo; noo,

and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the butterfly cheeks of
noo noo nooooo noooooo no noooooooooo, noo noo noooooooo nooooo no

young girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not actually inherent
noooo noooo; noo noooo noo noo noooooo noooooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo

in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all deified Nature
no nooooooooo, noo nooo nooo no nooo noooooo; no nooo noo noooooo Nooooo

absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover nothing but
nooooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo, noooo noooooooooo noooo noooooo noo

the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and consider that
noo noooooo-noooo nooooo; noo nooo no noooooo noooooo, noo nooooooo nooo

the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the great
noo nooooooo nooooooo noooo nooooooo noooo noo no noo nooo, noo noooo

principle of light, for ever remains white or colourless in itself, and
noooooooo no noooo, noo nooo noooooo noooo no nooooooooo no nooooo, noo

if operating without medium upon matter, would touch all objects, even
no noooooooo noooooo nooooo nooo nooooo, noooo noooo noo noooooo, nooo

tulips and roses, with its own blank tinge--pondering all this, the
nooooo noo noooo, nooo noo noo noooo noooo--noooooooo noo nooo, noo

palsied universe lies before us a leper; and like wilful travellers in
noooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo no n noooo; noo nooo nooooo nooooooooo no

Lapland, who refuse to wear coloured and colouring glasses upon their
Noooooo, noo nooooo no nooo nooooooo noo noooooooo noooooo nooo noooo

eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes himself blind at the monumental
nooo, no noo nooooooo noooooo noooo noooooo noooo no noo nooooooooo

white shroud that wraps all the prospect around him. And of all these
noooo nooooo nooo noooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo noo. Noo no noo noooo

things the Albino whale was the symbol. Wonder ye then at the fiery
nooooo noo Nooooo noooo noo noo nooooo. Nooooo no nooo no noo noooo

hunt?
nooo?










CHAPTER 43. Hark!
NOOOOOO no. Nooo!







"HIST! Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?"
"NOOO! Noo noo nooo nooo noooo, Nooooo?"




It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a
No noo noo nooooo-noooo; n nooo noooooooo; noo nooooo nooo nooooooo no n

cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the
nooooo, noooooooo nooo noo no noo noooo-noooo noooo no noo noooo, no noo

scuttle-butt near the taffrail. In this manner, they passed the buckets
noooooo-nooo nooo noo nooooooo. No nooo nooooo, nooo nooooo noo noooooo

to fill the scuttle-butt. Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed
no nooo noo noooooo-nooo. Nooooooo, noo noo nooo nooo, no noo nooooooo

precincts of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle
noooooooo no noo noooooo-nooo, nooo nooo noooooo noo no noooo no nooooo

their feet. From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence,
noooo nooo. Nooo nooo no nooo, noo noooooo nooo no noo noooooo noooooo,

only broken by the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the
nooo nooooo no noo nooooooooo nooo no n nooo, noo noo nooooo noo no noo

unceasingly advancing keel.
noooooooooo noooooooo nooo.




It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the cordon, whose
No noo no noo noooo no nooo nooooo, nooo Noooo, noo no noo nooooo, noooo

post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a Cholo, the
nooo noo nooo noo noooo-noooooo, noooooooo no noo nooooooo, n Noooo, noo

words above.
noooo noooo.




"Hist! did you hear that noise, Cabaco?"
"Nooo! noo noo nooo nooo noooo, Nooooo?"




"Take the bucket, will ye, Archy? what noise d'ye mean?"
"Nooo noo nooooo, nooo no, Noooo? nooo noooo n'no nooo?"




"There it is again--under the hatches--don't you hear it--a cough--it
"Noooo no no noooo--noooo noo noooooo--noo'n noo nooo no--n noooo--no

sounded like a cough."
noooooo nooo n noooo."




"Cough be damned! Pass along that return bucket."
"Noooo no nooooo! Nooo noooo nooo nooooo nooooo."




"There again--there it is!--it sounds like two or three sleepers turning
"Noooo noooo--noooo no no!--no nooooo nooo noo no noooo nooooooo noooooo

over, now!"
nooo, noo!"




"Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye? It's the three soaked biscuits
"Noooooo! nooo nooo, nooooooo, nooo no? No'n noo noooo nooooo nooooooo

ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye--nothing else. Look to the
no noo noo nooooo noooooo nooo nooooo no no--noooooo nooo. Nooo no noo

bucket!"
nooooo!"




"Say what ye will, shipmate; I've sharp ears."
"Noo nooo no nooo, nooooooo; N'no noooo nooo."




"Aye, you are the chap, ain't ye, that heard the hum of the old
"Noo, noo noo noo nooo, noo'n no, nooo noooo noo noo no noo noo

Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at sea from Nantucket; you're
Noooooooo'n nooooooo-noooooo noooo noooo no noo nooo Noooooooo; noo'no

the chap."
noo nooo."




"Grin away; we'll see what turns up. Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody
"Nooo nooo; no'no noo nooo noooo no. Nooo no, Nooooo, noooo no nooooooo

down in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and I suspect
nooo no noo noooo-nooo nooo noo noo noo nooo nooo no nooo; noo N noooooo

our old Mogul knows something of it too. I heard Stubb tell Flask, one
noo noo Noooo noooo noooooooo no no noo. N noooo Noooo nooo Noooo, noo

morning watch, that there was something of that sort in the wind."
noooooo noooo, nooo noooo noo noooooooo no nooo nooo no noo nooo."




"Tish! the bucket!"
"Nooo! noo nooooo!"










CHAPTER 44. The Chart.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo.







Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall that
Noo noo nooooooo Noooooo Nooo nooo nooo noo noooo noooo noo nooooo nooo

took place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his purpose
nooo noooo no noo noooo nooooooooo nooo nooo nooooooooooo no noo noooooo

with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in the transom,
nooo noo nooo, noo noooo nooo nooo noo no no n nooooo no noo noooooo,

and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea charts, spread
noo nooooooo noo n noooo nooooooo nooo no noooooooo noo nooooo, nooooo

them before him on his screwed-down table. Then seating himself before
nooo nooooo noo no noo noooooo-nooo noooo. Nooo noooooo noooooo nooooo

it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines and
no, noo noooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo noo noooooo noooo noo

shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace
nooooooo noooo noooo noo noo noo; noo nooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo noooo

additional courses over spaces that before were blank. At intervals, he
nooooooooo noooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo nooo noooo. No noooooooo, no

would refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein were set down
noooo noooo no noooo no noo noo-noooo nooooo noo, noooooo nooo noo nooo

the seasons and places in which, on various former voyages of various
noo noooooo noo nooooo no noooo, no noooooo nooooo noooooo no noooooo

ships, sperm whales had been captured or seen.
noooo, noooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo no nooo.




While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp suspended in chains over his
Noooo nooo nooooooo, noo noooo nooooo nooo noooooooo no nooooo nooo noo

head, continually rocked with the motion of the ship, and for ever threw
nooo, noooooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo nooo, noo noo nooo noooo

shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his wrinkled brow, till it
nooooooo nooooo noo noooooo no noooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo, nooo no

almost seemed that while he himself was marking out lines and courses
nooooo nooooo nooo noooo no noooooo noo noooooo noo noooo noo noooooo

on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also tracing lines and
no noo nooooooo nooooo, nooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooo noooooo noooo noo

courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.
noooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo noooo no noo nooooooo.




But it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of his
Noo no noo noo nooo noooo no nooooooooo nooo, no noo nooooooo no noo

cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts. Almost every night they were
noooo, Nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo. Nooooo noooo noooo nooo nooo

brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and
noooooo noo; nooooo noooo noooo nooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooo, noo

others were substituted. For with the charts of all four oceans before
nooooo nooo noooooooooo. Noo nooo noo nooooo no noo nooo nooooo nooooo

him, Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to
noo, Nooo noo noooooooo n nooo no nooooooo noo nooooo, nooo n nooo no

the more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.
noo nooo noooooo nooooooooooooo no nooo nooooooooo noooooo no noo nooo.




Now, to any one not fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans,
Noo, no noo noo noo noooo nooooooooo nooo noo nooo no noo nooooooooo,

it might seem an absurdly hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary
no noooo nooo no nooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo no nooo noo noo nooooooo

creature in the unhooped oceans of this planet. But not so did it
nooooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo no nooo nooooo. Noo noo no noo no

seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides and currents; and thereby
nooo no Nooo, noo nooo noo nooo no noo noooo noo nooooooo; noo noooooo

calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's food; and, also, calling
noooooooooo noo noooooooo no noo noooo noooo'n nooo; noo, nooo, noooooo

to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting him in particular
no nooo noo noooooo, noooooooooo noooooo noo noooooo noo no nooooooooo

latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost approaching to
noooooooo; noooo nooooo no nooooooooo nooooooo, nooooo noooooooooo no

certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or that ground
noooooooooo, nooooooooo noo noooooooo noo no no nooo nooo no nooo nooooo

in search of his prey.
no nooooo no noo nooo.




So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning the periodicalness of the
No noooooo, nooooo, no noo nooo nooooooooo noo nooooooooooooo no noo

sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that many hunters believe that,
noooo noooo'n noooooooo no noooo nooooo, nooo nooo noooooo noooooo nooo,

could he be closely observed and studied throughout the world; were the
noooo no no noooooo nooooooo noo noooooo nooooooooo noo noooo; nooo noo

logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully collated,
nooo noo noo nooooo no noo nooooo noooo noooo noooooooo nooooooo,

then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond in
nooo noo nooooooooo no noo noooo noooo noooo no noooo no nooooooooo no

invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows.
noooooooooooo no noooo no noo noooooo-nooooo no noo noooooo no nooooooo.

On this hint, attempts have been made to construct elaborate migratory
No nooo nooo, nooooooo nooo nooo nooo no noooooooo noooooooo noooooooo

charts of the sperm whale.*
nooooo no noo noooo noooo.*




     *Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne
     *Noooo noo noooo noo noooooo, noo noooooooo no noooooo noooo

     out by an official circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of
     noo no no nooooooo nooooooo, nooooo no Nooooooooo Noooo, no

     the National Observatory, Washington, April 16th, 1851. By
     noo Nooooooo Noooooooooo, Nooooooooo, Noooo nooo, nooo. No

     that circular, it appears that precisely such a chart is in
     nooo nooooooo, no noooooo nooo noooooooo nooo n noooo no no

     course of completion; and portions of it are presented in
     nooooo no nooooooooo; noo nooooooo no no noo noooooooo no

     the circular. "This chart divides the ocean into districts
     noo nooooooo. "Nooo noooo noooooo noo noooo nooo noooooooo

     of five degrees of latitude by five degrees of longitude;
     no nooo noooooo no nooooooo no nooo noooooo no noooooooo;

     perpendicularly through each of which districts are twelve
     noooooooooooooo noooooo nooo no noooo noooooooo noo nooooo

     columns for the twelve months; and horizontally through each
     noooooo noo noo nooooo nooooo; noo nooooooooooo noooooo nooo

     of which districts are three lines; one to show the number
     no noooo noooooooo noo noooo noooo; noo no nooo noo nooooo

     of days that have been spent in each month in every
     no nooo nooo nooo nooo noooo no nooo noooo no noooo

     district, and the two others to show the number of days in
     nooooooo, noo noo noo nooooo no nooo noo nooooo no nooo no

     which whales, sperm or right, have been seen."
     noooo nooooo, noooo no noooo, nooo nooo nooo."




Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to another, the
Noooooo, nooo nooooo n noooooo nooo noo noooooo-nooooo no noooooo, noo

sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct--say, rather, secret
noooo nooooo, nooooo no nooo nooooooooo nooooooo--noo, nooooo, nooooo

intelligence from the Deity--mostly swim in VEINS, as they are called;
nooooooooooo nooo noo Noooo--nooooo nooo no NOOOO, no nooo noo nooooo;

continuing their way along a given ocean-line with such undeviating
nooooooooo noooo noo noooo n noooo noooo-nooo nooo nooo noooooooooo

exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any chart, with
nooooooooo, nooo no nooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo, no noo noooo, nooo

one tithe of such marvellous precision. Though, in these cases, the
noo noooo no nooo nooooooooo noooooooo. Nooooo, no noooo noooo, noo

direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's parallel,
noooooooo noooo no noo noo noooo no nooooooo no n nooooooo'n nooooooo,

and though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own
noo nooooo noo nooo no noooooo no nooooooo nooooooo no noo noo

unavoidable, straight wake, yet the arbitrary VEIN in which at these
noooooooooo, nooooooo nooo, noo noo noooooooo NOOO no noooo no noooo

times he is said to swim, generally embraces some few miles in width
noooo no no nooo no nooo, noooooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo no noooo

(more or less, as the vein is presumed to expand or contract); but
(nooo no nooo, no noo nooo no nooooooo no nooooo no nooooooo); noo

never exceeds the visual sweep from the whale-ship's mast-heads,
noooo noooooo noo nooooo noooo nooo noo noooo-nooo'n nooo-noooo,

when circumspectly gliding along this magic zone. The sum is, that at
nooo noooooooooooo noooooo noooo nooo noooo nooo. Noo noo no, nooo no

particular seasons within that breadth and along that path, migrating
nooooooooo noooooo nooooo nooo noooooo noo noooo nooo nooo, noooooooo

whales may with great confidence be looked for.
nooooo noo nooo noooo nooooooooo no nooooo noo.




And hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
Noo noooo noo nooo no noooooooooooo noooo, nooo nooo noooo nooooooo

feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing
noooooo-noooooo, noooo Nooo nooo no noooooooo noo nooo; noo no nooooooo

the widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his
noo nooooo nooooooo no noooo noooooo noooo noooooo no noooo, no noo

art, so place and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly
noo, no noooo noo nooo noooooo no noo noo, no nooo nooo noo no no nooooo

without prospect of a meeting.
noooooo nooooooo no n noooooo.




There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle his
Noooo noo n nooooooooooo noooo no noooo noooo nooooo no nooooooo noo

delirious but still methodical scheme. But not so in the reality,
noooooooo noo noooo nooooooooo nooooo. Noo noo no no noo noooooo,

perhaps. Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons
noooooo. Nooooo noo nooooooooo noooo nooooo nooo noooo noooooo noooooo

for particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the
noo nooooooooo noooooo, noo no noooooo noo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo

herds which haunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year,
noooo noooo noooooo nooo noo nooo n nooooooo no noooooooo nooo nooo,

say, will turn out to be identically the same with those that were found
noo, nooo nooo noo no no noooooooooo noo nooo nooo noooo nooo nooo noooo

there the preceding season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable
noooo noo noooooooo nooooo; nooooo noooo noo nooooooo noo nooooooooooooo

instances where the contrary of this has proved true. In general, the
noooooooo noooo noo nooooooo no nooo noo nooooo nooo. No noooooo, noo

same remark, only within a less wide limit, applies to the solitaries
nooo nooooo, nooo nooooo n nooo nooo noooo, noooooo no noo nooooooooo

and hermits among the matured, aged sperm whales. So that though Moby
noo noooooo noooo noo noooooo, nooo noooo nooooo. No nooo nooooo Nooo

Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what is called the
Nooo noo no n nooooo nooo nooo nooo, noo noooooo, no nooo no nooooo noo

Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay on the Japanese
Noooooooo nooooo no noo Nooooo noooo, no Noooooo Noo no noo Nooooooo

Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the Pequod to visit either of
Noooo; noo no noo noo nooooo, nooo nooo noo Nooooo no noooo nooooo no

those spots at any subsequent corresponding season, she would infallibly
noooo noooo no noo nooooooooo noooooooooooo nooooo, noo noooo nooooooooo

encounter him there. So, too, with some other feeding grounds, where
noooooooo noo noooo. No, noo, nooo nooo noooo noooooo noooooo, noooo

he had at times revealed himself. But all these seemed only his casual
no noo no noooo nooooooo noooooo. Noo noo noooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo

stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of prolonged
nooooooo-nooooo noo noooo-nooo, no no noooo, noo noo nooooo no noooooooo

abode. And where Ahab's chances of accomplishing his object have
noooo. Noo noooo Nooo'n noooooo no noooooooooooo noo nooooo nooo

hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to whatever
nooooooo nooo nooooo no, nooooooo noo nooo nooo nooo no nooooooo

way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular
noo-nooo, nooooooooo, noooo noooooooo nooo noo, noo n nooooooooo

set time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become
noo nooo no noooo nooo nooooooo, nooo noo noooooooooooo noooo nooooo

probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next
noooooooooooo, noo, no Nooo nooooo noooooo, noooo noooooooooo noo nooo

thing to a certainty. That particular set time and place were conjoined
noooo no n noooooooo. Nooo nooooooooo noo nooo noo noooo nooo noooooooo

in the one technical phrase--the Season-on-the-Line. For there and then,
no noo noo noooooooo nooooo--noo Nooooo-no-noo-Nooo. Noo noooo noo nooo,

for several consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried,
noo noooooo noooooooooo noooo, Nooo Nooo noo nooo nooooooooooo nooooooo,

lingering in those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round,
noooooooo no noooo nooooo noo nooooo, no noo noo, no noo nooooo noooo,

loiters for a predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac. There
noooooo noo n noooooooo nooooooo no noo noo nooo no noo Nooooo. Noooo

it was, too, that most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had
no noo, noo, nooo nooo no noo nooooo nooooooooo nooo noo noooo noooo noo

taken place; there the waves were storied with his deeds; there also was
noooo noooo; noooo noo noooo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo; noooo nooo noo

that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive
nooo nooooo nooo noooo noo nooooooooo noo noo noo noooo noo noooo nooooo

to his vengeance. But in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering
no noo noooooooo. Noo no noo nooooooo noooooooooooooooo noo noooooooooo

vigilance with which Ahab threw his brooding soul into this unfaltering
noooooooo nooo noooo Nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooo noooooooooo

hunt, he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the one
nooo, no noooo noo nooooo noooooo no nooo noo noo noooo nooo noo noo

crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering it might be to those
nooooooo nooo noooo noooooooo, noooooo nooooooooo no noooo no no noooo

hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his
noooo; noo no noo noooooooooooo no noo noo noooo no no nooooooooooo noo

unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.
noooooo noooo no no nooooooo noo noooooooooo noooo.




Now, the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
Noo, noo Nooooo noo nooooo nooo Noooooooo no noo nooo noooooooo no noo

Season-on-the-Line. No possible endeavor then could enable her commander
Nooooo-no-noo-Nooo. No nooooooo nooooooo nooo noooo nooooo noo noooooooo

to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running
no nooo noo noooo noooooo nooooooooo, nooooo Nooo Nooo, noo nooo noooooo

down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time
nooo noooo noooooo no nooooooo nooooo no noo nooooooooo Noooooo no nooo

to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.
no nooooo noooo. Noooooooo, no nooo nooo noo noo nooo noooooo nooooo.

Yet the premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been
Noo noo noooooooo nooo no noo Nooooo'n noooooo noo, noooooo, nooo

correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of
noooooooo nooooooo no Nooo, nooo n nooo no nooo nooo nooooooooo no

things. Because, an interval of three hundred and sixty-five days
nooooo. Noooooo, no nooooooo no noooo noooooo noo noooo-nooo nooo

and nights was before him; an interval which, instead of impatiently
noo nooooo noo nooooo noo; no nooooooo noooo, noooooo no noooooooooo

enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt; if by chance
nooooooo nooooo, no noooo noooo no n noooooooooooo nooo; no no nooooo

the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote from his
noo Noooo Noooo, nooooooo noo nooooooo no nooo noo nooooo nooo noo

periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow off the
nooooooooo noooooo-noooooo, nooooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooo noo noo

Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any other
Noooooo Nooo, no no noo Nooooo Noo, no Noooo Nooo, no no noo noooo

waters haunted by his race. So that Monsoons, Pampas, Nor'-Westers,
nooooo noooooo no noo nooo. No nooo Nooooooo, Nooooo, Noo'-Noooooo,

Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoon, might
Nooooooooo, Nooooo; noo nooo noo noo Nooooooo noo Nooooo, noooo

blow Moby Dick into the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's
nooo Nooo Nooo nooo noo noooooo noo-noo noooo-nooooo no noo Nooooo'n

circumnavigating wake.
nooooooooooooooo nooo.




But granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not
Noo nooooooo noo nooo; noo, nooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo, noooo no noo

but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary
noo n noo nooo, nooo; nooo no noo noooo noooooooo noooo, noo nooooooo

whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable of individual
noooo, nooo no noooooooooo, nooooo no noooooo noooooo no nooooooooo

recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the
noooooooooo nooo noo nooooo, nooo no n noooo-noooooo Noooo no noo

thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar
nooooooo noooooooooooo no Nooooooooooooo? Noo. Noo noo nooooooo

snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his snow-white hump, could not but
nooo-noooo nooo no Nooo Nooo, noo noo nooo-noooo nooo, noooo noo noo

be unmistakable. And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter
no nooooooooooo. Noo nooo N noo noooooo noo noooo, Nooo noooo nooooo

to himself, as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he
no noooooo, no noooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo no

would throw himself back in reveries--tallied him, and shall he escape?
noooo noooo noooooo nooo no nooooooo--noooooo noo, noo noooo no nooooo?

His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost sheep's ear! And
Noo noooo nooo noo noooo, noo noooooooo noo nooo n nooo noooo'n noo! Noo

here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till a weariness
nooo, noo noo nooo noooo noo no no n nooooooooo nooo; nooo n noooooooo

and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of the
noo noooooooo no noooooooo nooo nooo noo; noo no noo nooo noo no noo

deck he would seek to recover his strength. Ah, God! what trances
nooo no noooo nooo no noooooo noo nooooooo. No, Noo! nooo noooooo

of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved
no nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo noo no nooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo

revengeful desire. He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own
nooooooooo nooooo. No nooooo nooo nooooooo noooo; noo noooo nooo noo noo

bloody nails in his palms.
nooooo noooo no noo noooo.




Often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and intolerably vivid
Noooo, nooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo no nooooooooo noo noooooooooo noooo

dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense thoughts through
nooooo no noo noooo, noooo, nooooooo noo noo noooooo nooooooo noooooo

the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and whirled them
noo noo, noooooo nooo no nooo n nooooooo no noooooooo, noo noooooo nooo

round and round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing
noooo noo noooo noo noooo no noo noooooo noooo, nooo noo nooo noooooooo

of his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was sometimes
no noo nooo-nooo nooooo nooooooooooo noooooo; noo nooo, no noo noooooooo

the case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its
noo nooo, noooo noooooooo nooooo no noo nooooo noo noooo no nooo noo

base, and a chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked flames and
nooo, noo n noooo nooooo noooooo no noo, nooo noooo nooooo nooooo noo

lightnings shot up, and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among
nooooooooo nooo no, noo nooooooo nooooo nooooooo noo no nooo nooo noooo

them; when this hell in himself yawned beneath him, a wild cry would be
nooo; nooo nooo nooo no noooooo nooooo noooooo noo, n nooo noo noooo no

heard through the ship; and with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his
noooo noooooo noo nooo; noo nooo noooooo nooo Nooo noooo noooo nooo noo

state room, as though escaping from a bed that was on fire. Yet these,
noooo nooo, no nooooo nooooooo nooo n noo nooo noo no nooo. Noo noooo,

perhaps, instead of being the unsuppressable symptoms of some latent
noooooo, noooooo no noooo noo nooooooooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooooo

weakness, or fright at his own resolve, were but the plainest tokens
nooooooo, no nooooo no noo noo noooooo, nooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo

of its intensity. For, at such times, crazy Ahab, the scheming,
no noo noooooooo. Noo, no nooo noooo, noooo Nooo, noo nooooooo,

unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this Ahab that had
nooooooooooo noooooooo nooooo no noo noooo noooo; nooo Nooo nooo noo

gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused him to burst from
nooo no noo noooooo, noo noo noo noooo nooo no nooooo noo no noooo nooo

it in horror again. The latter was the eternal, living principle or
no no nooooo noooo. Noo nooooo noo noo noooooo, nooooo noooooooo no

soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from the
nooo no noo; noo no noooo, noooo noo noo nooo noooooooooo nooo noo

characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer
nooooooooooooo nooo, noooo no noooo noooo nooooooo no noo noo noooo

vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching
noooooo no noooo, no noooooooooooo nooooo nooooo nooo noo noooooooo

contiguity of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no
nooooooooo no noo noooooo noooo, no noooo, noo noo nooo, no noo no

longer an integral. But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with
nooooo no nooooooo. Noo no noo nooo nooo noo noooo nooooo noooooo nooo

the soul, therefore it must have been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up
noo nooo, noooooooo no nooo nooo nooo nooo, no Nooo'n nooo, nooooooo no

all his thoughts and fancies to his one supreme purpose; that purpose,
noo noo nooooooo noo noooooo no noo noo noooooo noooooo; nooo noooooo,

by its own sheer inveteracy of will, forced itself against gods and
no noo noo noooo nooooooooo no nooo, nooooo nooooo noooooo nooo noo

devils into a kind of self-assumed, independent being of its own. Nay,
nooooo nooo n nooo no nooo-noooooo, noooooooooo noooo no noo noo. Noo,

could grimly live and burn, while the common vitality to which it was
noooo nooooo nooo noo nooo, noooo noo nooooo nooooooo no noooo no noo

conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the unbidden and unfathered birth.
noooooooo, nooo nooooo-nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo noo nooooooooo noooo.

Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared out of bodily eyes, when
Noooooooo, noo noooooooo nooooo nooo nooooo noo no nooooo nooo, nooo

what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the time but a vacated
nooo nooooo Nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo, noo noo noo nooo noo n noooooo

thing, a formless somnambulistic being, a ray of living light, to be
noooo, n nooooooo nooooooooooooo noooo, n noo no nooooo noooo, no no

sure, but without an object to colour, and therefore a blankness in
nooo, noo noooooo no nooooo no nooooo, noo noooooooo n noooooooo no

itself. God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature
nooooo. Noo nooo nooo, noo noo, noo nooooooo nooo noooooo n nooooooo

in thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a
no nooo; noo no noooo noooooo nooooooo nooo noooo noo n Nooooooooo; n

vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature
noooooo noooo nooo nooo noooo noo nooo; nooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooo

he creates.
no noooooo.










CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooooo.







So far as what there may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed, as
No noo no nooo noooo noo no no n noooooooo no nooo nooo; noo, nooooo, no

indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curious particulars
nooooooooo nooooooo noo no noo nooo noooooooooo noo noooooo noooooooooo

in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, in its earlier
no noo nooooo no noooo nooooo, noo noooooooo noooooo, no noo noooooo

part, is as important a one as will be found in this volume; but the
nooo, no no noooooooo n noo no nooo no noooo no nooo nooooo; noo noo

leading matter of it requires to be still further and more familiarly
noooooo nooooo no no nooooooo no no noooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooooo

enlarged upon, in order to be adequately understood, and moreover to
nooooooo nooo, no noooo no no nooooooooo nooooooooo, noo nooooooo no

take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of the entire
nooo nooo noo noooooooooo noooo n nooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo

subject may induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main
noooooo noo nooooo no nooo noooo, no no noo noooooo nooooo no noo nooo

points of this affair.
nooooo no nooo nooooo.




I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall
N nooo noo no noooooo nooo nooo no no nooo nooooooooooo; noo noooo

be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of
no noooooo no noooooo noo noooooo nooooooooo no nooooooo noooooooo no

items, practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these
noooo, noooooooooo no nooooooo noooo no no no n nooooooo; noo nooo noooo

citations, I take it--the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of
noooooooo, N nooo no--noo nooooooooo noooo no nooo noooooooo nooooo no

itself.
nooooo.




First: I have personally known three instances where a whale, after
Noooo: N nooo nooooooooo noooo noooo noooooooo noooo n noooo, noooo

receiving a harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an
noooooooo n noooooo, noo nooooooo n nooooooo nooooo; noo, noooo no

interval (in one instance of three years), has been again struck by
nooooooo (no noo nooooooo no noooo noooo), noo nooo noooo nooooo no

the same hand, and slain; when the two irons, both marked by the same
noo nooo nooo, noo noooo; nooo noo noo noooo, nooo nooooo no noo nooo

private cypher, have been taken from the body. In the instance where
noooooo nooooo, nooo nooo noooo nooo noo nooo. No noo nooooooo noooo

three years intervened between the flinging of the two harpoons; and I
noooo noooo nooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo no noo noo nooooooo; noo N

think it may have been something more than that; the man who darted
noooo no noo nooo nooo noooooooo nooo nooo nooo; noo noo noo nooooo

them happening, in the interval, to go in a trading ship on a voyage to
nooo noooooooo, no noo nooooooo, no no no n noooooo nooo no n nooooo no

Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery party, and penetrated far
Nooooo, nooo nooooo noooo, nooooo n noooooooo noooo, noo nooooooooo noo

into the interior, where he travelled for a period of nearly two years,
nooo noo nooooooo, noooo no noooooooo noo n nooooo no nooooo noo noooo,

often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous miasmas,
noooo nooooooooo no nooooooo, noooooo, nooooo, noooooooo noooooo,

with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart of
nooo noo noo noooo nooooo nooooo nooooooo no noooooooo no noo noooo no

unknown regions. Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have
noooooo noooooo. Noooooooo, noo noooo no noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo

been on its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe,
nooo no noo noooooo; no noooo no noo nooooo noooooooooooooo noo noooo,

brushing with its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.
nooooooo nooo noo nooooo noo noo nooooo no Nooooo; noo no no noooooo.

This man and this whale again came together, and the one vanquished the
Nooo noo noo nooo noooo noooo nooo nooooooo, noo noo noo nooooooooo noo

other. I say I, myself, have known three instances similar to this; that
noooo. N noo N, nooooo, nooo noooo noooo noooooooo noooooo no nooo; nooo

is in two of them I saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack,
no no noo no nooo N noo noo nooooo nooooo; noo, nooo noo nooooo nooooo,

saw the two irons with the respective marks cut in them, afterwards
noo noo noo noooo nooo noo nooooooooo noooo noo no nooo, nooooooooo

taken from the dead fish. In the three-year instance, it so fell out
noooo nooo noo nooo nooo. No noo noooo-nooo nooooooo, no no nooo noo

that I was in the boat both times, first and last, and the last time
nooo N noo no noo nooo nooo noooo, noooo noo nooo, noo noo nooo nooo

distinctly recognised a peculiar sort of huge mole under the whale's
nooooooooo nooooooooo n nooooooo nooo no nooo nooo noooo noo noooo'n

eye, which I had observed there three years previous. I say three years,
noo, noooo N noo nooooooo noooo noooo noooo nooooooo. N noo noooo noooo,

but I am pretty sure it was more than that. Here are three instances,
noo N no nooooo nooo no noo nooo nooo nooo. Nooo noo noooo noooooooo,

then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard of many
nooo, noooo N nooooooooo nooo noo noooo no; noo N nooo noooo no nooo

other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no
noooo noooooooo nooo noooooo noooo nooooooo no noo nooooo noooo no no

good ground to impeach.
nooo nooooo no noooooo.




Secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale Fishery, however ignorant
Nooooooo: No no nooo noooo no noo Noooo Noooo Noooooo, noooooo nooooooo

the world ashore may be of it, that there have been several memorable
noo noooo nooooo noo no no no, nooo noooo nooo nooo noooooo noooooooo

historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been at
nooooooooo noooooooo noooo n nooooooooo noooo no noo noooo noo nooo no

distant times and places popularly cognisable. Why such a whale became
noooooo noooo noo nooooo noooooooo nooooooooo. Noo nooo n noooo nooooo

thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily
nooo nooooo noo noo nooooooooo noo nooooooooo noooo no noo nooooo

peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar
noooooooooooo no noooooooooooo nooo noooo nooooo; noo noooooo nooooooo

in that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his
no nooo noooooo noo nooooo noooo noo no, nooo nooo noo no noo no noo

peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly
noooooooooooo no noooooo noo, noo noooooo noo nooo nooo n nooooooooo

valuable oil. No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences
nooooooo noo. No: noo nooooo noo nooo: nooo nooo noo noooo noooooooooo

of the fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about
no noo noooooo noooo nooo n nooooooo nooooooo no nooooooooooo noooo

such a whale as there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that
nooo n noooo no noooo noo noooo Noooooo Noooooooo, nooooooo nooo

most fishermen were content to recognise him by merely touching their
nooo noooooooo nooo noooooo no noooooooo noo no nooooo nooooooo noooo

tarpaulins when he would be discovered lounging by them on the sea,
nooooooooo nooo no noooo no nooooooooo nooooooo no nooo no noo noo,

without seeking to cultivate a more intimate acquaintance. Like some
noooooo noooooo no noooooooo n nooo nooooooo nooooooooooo. Nooo nooo

poor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, they
nooo nooooo nooooo nooo nooooo no nooo no noooooooo noooo noo, nooo

make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the street, lest if they
nooo noooooo noooooooooo noooooooooo no noo no noo nooooo, nooo no nooo

pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thump for
noooooo noo nooooooooooo noooooo, nooo noooo noooooo n noooooo noooo noo

their presumption.
noooo noooooooooo.




But not only did each of these famous whales enjoy great individual
Noo noo nooo noo nooo no noooo nooooo nooooo noooo noooo nooooooooo

celebrity--Nay, you may call it an ocean-wide renown; not only was he
noooooooo--Noo, noo noo nooo no no noooo-nooo nooooo; noo nooo noo no

famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle stories after death,
nooooo no nooo noo noo no nooooooo no nooooooooo noooooo noooo noooo,

but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges, and distinctions of
noo no noo nooooooo nooo noo noo nooooo, nooooooooo, noo nooooooooooo no

a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar. Was it not so,
n nooo; noo no nooo n nooo nooooo no Nooooooo no Nooooo. Noo no noo no,

O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so long
N Noooo Noo! nooo noooo noooooooo, noooooo nooo no noooooo, noo no nooo

did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was oft
noo'no nooo no noo Nooooooo noooooo no nooo nooo, noooo noooo noo noo

seen from the palmy beach of Ombay? Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack!
nooo nooo noo noooo noooo no Noooo? Noo no noo no, N Noo Noooooo Nooo!

thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of
nooo nooooo no noo nooooooo nooo noooooo noooo noooo no noo nooooooo no

the Tattoo Land? Was it not so, O Morquan! King of Japan, whose lofty
noo Nooooo Nooo? Noo no noo no, N Noooooo! Nooo no Noooo, noooo noooo

jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross
noo nooo noo no noooo noooooo noo noooooooo no n nooo-noooo noooo

against the sky? Was it not so, O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale, marked
noooooo noo noo? Noo no noo no, N Noo Nooooo! nooo Noooooo noooo, nooooo

like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back! In plain
nooo no noo nooooooo nooo nooooo noooooooooooo nooo noo nooo! No noooo

prose, here are four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean
noooo, nooo noo nooo nooooo no nooo noooo no noo nooooooo no Nooooooo

History as Marius or Sylla to the classic scholar.
Noooooo no Nooooo no Noooo no noo noooooo noooooo.




But this is not all. New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel, after at various
Noo nooo no noo noo. Noo Noooooo Noo noo Noo Nooooo, noooo no noooooo

times creating great havoc among the boats of different vessels, were
noooo nooooooo noooo noooo noooo noo noooo no noooooooo noooooo, nooo

finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and killed
noooooo nooo no noooo no, nooooooooooooo nooooo noo, nooooo noo nooooo

by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with
no noooooo noooooo nooooooo, noo nooooo no noooo noooooo nooo

that express object as much in view, as in setting out through the
nooo noooooo nooooo no nooo no nooo, no no noooooo noo noooooo noo

Narragansett Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture
Nooooooooooo Noooo, Noooooo Nooooo no noo noo no no noo nooo no noooooo

that notorious murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the
nooo noooooooo noooooooo nooooo Noooooo, noo nooooooo noooooo no noo

Indian King Philip.
Nooooo Nooo Nooooo.




I do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make
N no noo nooo noooo N noo nooo n nooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo, no nooo

mention of one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in
noooooo no noo no noo noooo nooooo, noooo no no nooo noooooooo, no no

printed form establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the
noooooo nooo nooooooooooo no noo nooooooo noo nooooooooooooo no noo

whole story of the White Whale, more especially the catastrophe. For
noooo noooo no noo Noooo Noooo, nooo nooooooooo noo noooooooooo. Noo

this is one of those disheartening instances where truth requires full
nooo no noo no noooo noooooooooooo noooooooo noooo noooo nooooooo nooo

as much bolstering as error. So ignorant are most landsmen of some of
no nooo nooooooooo no noooo. No nooooooo noo nooo nooooooo no nooo no

the plainest and most palpable wonders of the world, that without
noo nooooooo noo nooo nooooooo noooooo no noo noooo, nooo noooooo

some hints touching the plain facts, historical and otherwise, of the
nooo noooo nooooooo noo noooo noooo, nooooooooo noo noooooooo, no noo

fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a monstrous fable, or still
noooooo, nooo noooo noooo no Nooo Nooo no n noooooooo noooo, no noooo

worse and more detestable, a hideous and intolerable allegory.
noooo noo nooo nooooooooo, n noooooo noo noooooooooo nooooooo.




First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas of the general
Noooo: Nooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo noooo no noo noooooo

perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a fixed, vivid
nooooo no noo noooo noooooo, noo nooo nooo noooooo nooo n noooo, noooo

conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they recur.
nooooooooo no noooo nooooo, noo noo noooooooo nooo noooo nooo noooo.

One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters and
Noo nooooo noooooo no, nooo noo noo no noooo no noo nooooo noooooooo noo

deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home,
nooooo no nooooooooo no noo noooooo, nooo noooo n nooooo nooooo no nooo,

however transient and immediately forgotten that record. Do you suppose
noooooo noooooooo noo noooooooooo noooooooo nooo nooooo. No noo noooooo

that that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the
nooo nooo nooo nooooo noooo, noo nooo nooooo noooooo nooooo no noo

whale-line off the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the
noooo-nooo noo noo noooo no Noo Nooooo, no noooo noooooo nooo no noo

bottom of the sea by the sounding leviathan--do you suppose that that
nooooo no noo noo no noo nooooooo noooooooo--no noo noooooo nooo nooo

poor fellow's name will appear in the newspaper obituary you will read
nooo nooooo'n nooo nooo nooooo no noo noooooooo nooooooo noo nooo nooo

to-morrow at your breakfast? No: because the mails are very irregular
no-nooooo no nooo noooooooo? No: noooooo noo noooo noo nooo noooooooo

between here and New Guinea. In fact, did you ever hear what might be
noooooo nooo noo Noo Nooooo. No nooo, noo noo nooo nooo nooo noooo no

called regular news direct or indirect from New Guinea? Yet I tell you
nooooo noooooo nooo nooooo no nooooooo nooo Noo Nooooo? Noo N nooo noo

that upon one particular voyage which I made to the Pacific, among many
nooo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooo noooo N nooo no noo Noooooo, noooo nooo

others we spoke thirty different ships, every one of which had had a
nooooo no noooo nooooo noooooooo noooo, noooo noo no noooo noo noo n

death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three that had each
noooo no n noooo, nooo no nooo nooo nooo noo, noo noooo nooo noo nooo

lost a boat's crew. For God's sake, be economical with your lamps and
nooo n nooo'n nooo. Noo Noo'n nooo, no nooooooooo nooo nooo noooo noo

candles! not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man's blood was
noooooo! noo n nooooo noo nooo, noo no noooo noo nooo no noo'n noooo noo

spilled for it.
noooooo noo no.




Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is
Nooooooo: Nooooo nooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooooooo nooo nooo n noooo no

an enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when
no nooooooo nooooooo no nooooooo noooo; noo N nooo nooo noooo nooo nooo

narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold enormousness,
noooooooo no nooo nooo nooooooo noooooo no nooo noo-nooo nooooooooooo,

they have significantly complimented me upon my facetiousness; when, I
nooo nooo noooooooooooo nooooooooooo no nooo no noooooooooooo; nooo, N

declare upon my soul, I had no more idea of being facetious than Moses,
noooooo nooo no nooo, N noo no nooo nooo no noooo noooooooo nooo Noooo,

when he wrote the history of the plagues of Egypt.
nooo no noooo noo noooooo no noo noooooo no Noooo.




But fortunately the special point I here seek can be established upon
Noo noooooooooo noo noooooo noooo N nooo nooo noo no noooooooooo nooo

testimony entirely independent of my own. That point is this: The Sperm
noooooooo nooooooo noooooooooo no no noo. Nooo noooo no nooo: Noo Noooo

Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful, knowing, and judiciously
Noooo no no nooo noooo nooooooooooo nooooooo, noooooo, noo noooooooooo

malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in, utterly destroy, and
noooooooo, no nooo nooooo nooooooooooo no noooo no, noooooo noooooo, noo

sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale HAS done it.
nooo n noooo nooo; noo nooo no nooo, noo Noooo Noooo NOO nooo no.




First: In the year 1820 the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket,
Noooo: No noo nooo nooo noo nooo Noooo, Noooooo Noooooo, no Noooooooo,

was cruising in the Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouts, lowered her
noo nooooooo no noo Noooooo Noooo. Noo noo noo noo nooooo, noooooo noo

boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales. Ere long, several of
noooo, noo nooo noooo no n noooo no noooo nooooo. Noo nooo, noooooo no

the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping
noo nooooo nooo noooooo; nooo, nooooooo, n nooo noooo noooo nooooooo

from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon the
nooo noo noooo, nooooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo

ship. Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that in
nooo. Noooooo noo nooooooo noooooo noo nooo, no no noooo noo no, nooo no

less than "ten minutes" she settled down and fell over. Not a surviving
nooo nooo "noo noooooo" noo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo. Noo n noooooooo

plank of her has been seen since. After the severest exposure, part of
noooo no noo noo nooo nooo noooo. Noooo noo nooooooo nooooooo, nooo no

the crew reached the land in their boats. Being returned home at last,
noo nooo noooooo noo nooo no noooo noooo. Noooo nooooooo nooo no nooo,

Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another
Noooooo Noooooo nooo nooo nooooo noo noo Noooooo no noooooo no noooooo

ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again upon unknown rocks and
nooo, noo noo nooo noooooooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo noooo noo

breakers; for the second time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith
nooooooo; noo noo nooooo nooo noo nooo noo noooooo nooo, noo noooooooo

forswearing the sea, he has never tempted it since. At this day Captain
noooooooooo noo noo, no noo noooo noooooo no noooo. No nooo noo Noooooo

Pollard is a resident of Nantucket. I have seen Owen Chace, who was
Noooooo no n nooooooo no Noooooooo. N nooo nooo Nooo Noooo, noo noo

chief mate of the Essex at the time of the tragedy; I have read his
noooo nooo no noo Noooo no noo nooo no noo noooooo; N nooo nooo noo

plain and faithful narrative; I have conversed with his son; and all
noooo noo nooooooo noooooooo; N nooo noooooooo nooo noo noo; noo noo

this within a few miles of the scene of the catastrophe.*
nooo nooooo n noo noooo no noo noooo no noo noooooooooo.*







*The following are extracts from Chace's narrative: "Every fact seemed
*Noo noooooooo noo nooooooo nooo Noooo'n noooooooo: "Noooo nooo nooooo

to warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which
no noooooo no no nooooooooo nooo no noo nooooooo noo nooooo noooo

directed his operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at
nooooooo noo nooooooooo; no nooo noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo, no

a short interval between them, both of which, according to their
n noooo nooooooo noooooo nooo, nooo no noooo, noooooooo no noooo

direction, were calculated to do us the most injury, by being made
noooooooo, nooo nooooooooo no no no noo nooo nooooo, no noooo nooo

ahead, and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for the shock;
noooo, noo noooooo noooooooo noo noooo no noo noo noooooo noo noo noooo;

to effect which, the exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary. His
no nooooo noooo, noo noooo nooooooooo noooo no nooo nooo noooooooo. Noo

aspect was most horrible, and such as indicated resentment and fury. He
nooooo noo nooo nooooooo, noo nooo no noooooooo nooooooooo noo nooo. No

came directly from the shoal which we had just before entered, and in
nooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo noooo no noo nooo nooooo noooooo, noo no

which we had struck three of his companions, as if fired with revenge
noooo no noo nooooo noooo no noo nooooooooo, no no noooo nooo noooooo

for their sufferings." Again: "At all events, the whole circumstances
noo noooo nooooooooo." Noooo: "No noo nooooo, noo noooo noooooooooooo

taken together, all happening before my own eyes, and producing, at the
noooo nooooooo, noo noooooooo nooooo no noo nooo, noo noooooooo, no noo

time, impressions in my mind of decided, calculating mischief, on the
nooo, noooooooooo no no nooo no noooooo, noooooooooo nooooooo, no noo

part of the whale (many of which impressions I cannot now recall),
nooo no noo noooo (nooo no noooo noooooooooo N nooooo noo nooooo),

induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my opinion."
nooooo no no no noooooooo nooo N no noooooo no no noooooo."




Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during
Nooo noo noo noooooooooo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo noo nooo, nooooo

a black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
n noooo noooo no no nooo nooo, nooo nooooo nooooooooo no nooooooo noo

hospitable shore. "The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
nooooooooo noooo. "Noo nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooooo nooo noooooo; noo

fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed
noooo no noooo noooooooo no no nooo nooooooo noooooo, no nooooo

upon hidden rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful
nooo nooooo noooo, nooo noo noo noooo nooooooo nooooooo no noooooo

contemplation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought; the
noooooooooooo, nooooo nooooooo nooooooo no n nooooo'n noooooo; noo

dismal looking wreck, and THE HORRID ASPECT AND REVENGE OF THE WHALE,
nooooo noooooo noooo, noo NOO NOOOOO NOOOOO NOO NOOOOOO NO NOO NOOOO,

wholly engrossed my reflections, until day again made its appearance."
nooooo noooooooo no noooooooooo, noooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooooooo."




In another place--p. 45,--he speaks of "THE MYSTERIOUS AND MORTAL ATTACK
No noooooo noooo--n. no,--no nooooo no "NOO NOOOOOOOOO NOO NOOOOO NOOOOO

OF THE ANIMAL."
NO NOO NOOOOO."







Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807
Nooooooo: Noo nooo Noooo, nooo no Noooooooo, noo no noo nooo nooo

totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic
noooooo nooo noo noo Nooooo no n noooooo noooo, noo noo noooooooo

particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter,
noooooooooo no nooo noooooooooo N nooo noooo noooooo no noooooooo,

though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions
nooooo nooo noo noooo noooooo N nooo noo noo nooo noooo nooooo noooooooo

to it.
no no.




Thirdly: Some eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J---, then
Noooooo: Nooo nooooooo no nooooo noooo noo Noooooooo N---, nooo

commanding an American sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be
nooooooooo no Nooooooo noooo-no-noo no noo noooo noooo, nooooooo no no

dining with a party of whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in
nooooo nooo n noooo no noooooo nooooooo, no noooo n Noooooooo nooo no

the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Conversation turning upon whales,
noo nooooo no Nooo, Nooooooo Noooooo. Nooooooooooo noooooo nooo nooooo,

the Commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching the amazing strength
noo Noooooooo noo noooooo no no noooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo nooooooo

ascribed to them by the professional gentlemen present. He peremptorily
nooooooo no nooo no noo nooooooooooo noooooooo noooooo. No nooooooooooo

denied for example, that any whale could so smite his stout sloop-of-war
nooooo noo noooooo, nooo noo noooo noooo no noooo noo noooo noooo-no-noo

as to cause her to leak so much as a thimbleful. Very good; but there
no no noooo noo no nooo no nooo no n nooooooooo. Nooo nooo; noo noooo

is more coming. Some weeks after, the Commodore set sail in this
no nooo nooooo. Nooo noooo noooo, noo Noooooooo noo nooo no nooo

impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped on the way by a
noooooooooo noooo noo Nooooooooo. Noo no noo noooooo no noo noo no n

portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments' confidential business
nooooo noooo noooo, nooo nooooo n noo noooooo' nooooooooooo nooooooo

with him. That business consisted in fetching the Commodore's craft such
nooo noo. Nooo nooooooo noooooooo no nooooooo noo Noooooooo'n noooo nooo

a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest
n nooooo, nooo nooo noo noo noooo noooo no nooo nooooooo noo noo noooooo

port to heave down and repair. I am not superstitious, but I consider
nooo no noooo nooo noo nooooo. N no noo noooooooooooo, noo N nooooooo

the Commodore's interview with that whale as providential. Was not Saul
noo Noooooooo'n noooooooo nooo nooo noooo no nooooooooooo. Noo noo Nooo

of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a similar fright? I tell you, the
no Nooooo noooooooo nooo nooooooo no n noooooo nooooo? N nooo noo, noo

sperm whale will stand no nonsense.
noooo noooo nooo noooo no nooooooo.




I will now refer you to Langsdorff's Voyages for a little circumstance
N nooo noo noooo noo no Nooooooooo'n Noooooo noo n nooooo nooooooooooo

in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof. Langsdorff, you
no noooo, nooooooooo noooooooooo no noo nooooo nooooo. Nooooooooo, noo

must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern's
nooo nooo no noo noo, noo nooooooo no noo Noooooo Noooooo Noooooooooo'n

famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century.
nooooo Noooooooo Nooooooooo no noo noooooooo no noo noooooo noooooo.

Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter:
Noooooo Nooooooooo nooo nooooo noo noooooooooo noooooo:




"By the thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day
"No noo nooooooooo no Noo noo nooo noo noooo no nooo, noo noo nooo noo

we were out in the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh. The weather was very
no nooo noo no noo nooo noo, no noo noo no Noooooo. Noo noooooo noo nooo

clear and fine, but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on
noooo noo nooo, noo no noooooooooo nooo nooo no nooo noooooo no nooo no

our fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind; it was not
noo noo nooooooo. Noo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo nooo; no noo noo

till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up. An
nooo noo nooooooooo nooo n noooo nooo nooo noo noooooooo nooooo no. No

uncommon large whale, the body of which was larger than the ship itself,
nooooooo noooo noooo, noo nooo no noooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooooo,

lay almost at the surface of the water, but was not perceived by any
noo nooooo no noo noooooo no noo noooo, noo noo noo noooooooo no noo

one on board till the moment when the ship, which was in full sail,
noo no noooo nooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooo, noooo noo no nooo nooo,

was almost upon him, so that it was impossible to prevent its striking
noo nooooo nooo noo, no nooo no noo nooooooooo no noooooo noo nooooooo

against him. We were thus placed in the most imminent danger, as this
noooooo noo. No nooo nooo nooooo no noo nooo nooooooo nooooo, no nooo

gigantic creature, setting up its back, raised the ship three feet at
nooooooo nooooooo, noooooo no noo nooo, nooooo noo nooo noooo nooo no

least out of the water. The masts reeled, and the sails fell altogether,
noooo noo no noo noooo. Noo noooo nooooo, noo noo noooo nooo nooooooooo,

while we who were below all sprang instantly upon the deck, concluding
noooo no noo nooo noooo noo nooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooo, nooooooooo

that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we saw the monster
nooo no noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo; noooooo no nooo no noo noo noooooo

sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity. Captain D'Wolf
noooooo noo nooo noo nooooo noooooo noo noooooooo. Noooooo N'Nooo

applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel
noooooo noooooooooo no noo noooo no noooooo noooooo no noo noo nooooo

had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very happily
noo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo noo noooo, noo no noooo nooo nooo noooooo

it had escaped entirely uninjured."
no noo noooooo nooooooo noooooooo."




Now, the Captain D'Wolf here alluded to as commanding the ship in
Noo, noo Noooooo N'Nooo nooo noooooo no no nooooooooo noo nooo no

question, is a New Englander, who, after a long life of unusual
nooooooo, no n Noo Noooooooo, noo, noooo n nooo nooo no noooooo

adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of
nooooooooo no n noo-noooooo, nooo noo noooooo no noo noooooo no

Dorchester near Boston. I have the honour of being a nephew of his. I
Nooooooooo nooo Nooooo. N nooo noo nooooo no noooo n nooooo no noo. N

have particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.
nooo nooooooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooooo nooo noooooo no Nooooooooo.

He substantiates every word. The ship, however, was by no means a large
No noooooooooooo noooo nooo. Noo nooo, noooooo, noo no no noooo n noooo

one: a Russian craft built on the Siberian coast, and purchased by my
noo: n Noooooo noooo noooo no noo Nooooooo noooo, noo noooooooo no no

uncle after bartering away the vessel in which he sailed from home.
noooo noooo noooooooo nooo noo nooooo no noooo no nooooo nooo nooo.




In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned adventure, so full, too,
No nooo no noo nooo noooo nooo no noo-noooooooo noooooooo, no nooo, noo,

of honest wonders--the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one of ancient Dampier's
no nooooo noooooo--noo nooooo no Nooooo Noooo, noo no noooooo Noooooo'n

old chums--I found a little matter set down so like that just quoted
noo noooo--N noooo n nooooo nooooo noo nooo no nooo nooo nooo nooooo

from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a
nooo Nooooooooo, nooo N nooooo noooooo noooooooo no nooo noo n

corroborative example, if such be needed.
noooooooooooo noooooo, no nooo no nooooo.




Lionel, it seems, was on his way to "John Ferdinando," as he calls
Nooooo, no noooo, noo no noo noo no "Nooo Nooooooooo," no no noooo

the modern Juan Fernandes. "In our way thither," he says, "about four
noo nooooo Nooo Noooooooo. "No noo noo noooooo," no nooo, "noooo nooo

o'clock in the morning, when we were about one hundred and fifty leagues
n'noooo no noo noooooo, nooo no nooo noooo noo noooooo noo noooo noooooo

from the Main of America, our ship felt a terrible shock, which put our
nooo noo Nooo no Noooooo, noo nooo nooo n nooooooo noooo, noooo noo noo

men in such consternation that they could hardly tell where they were
noo no nooo noooooooooooo nooo nooo noooo nooooo nooo noooo nooo nooo

or what to think; but every one began to prepare for death. And, indeed,
no nooo no noooo; noo noooo noo noooo no noooooo noo noooo. Noo, nooooo,

the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it for granted the
noo noooo noo no nooooo noo noooooo, nooo no nooo no noo noooooo noo

ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was a little
nooo noo nooooo noooooo n nooo; noo nooo noo noooooooo noo n nooooo

over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground..... The
nooo, no nooo noo nooo, noo noooooo, noo noooo no nooooo..... Noo

suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and
nooooooooo no noo noooo nooo noo nooo nooo no noooo noooooooo, noo

several of the men were shaken out of their hammocks. Captain Davis, who
noooooo no noo noo nooo nooooo noo no noooo nooooooo. Noooooo Noooo, noo

lay with his head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!" Lionel then
noo nooo noo nooo no n noo, noo nooooo noo no noo noooo!" Nooooo nooo

goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate
nooo no no nooooo noo noooo no no nooooooooo, noo noooo no nooooooooooo

the imputation by stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about
noo nooooooooo no noooooo nooo n noooo nooooooooo, noooooooo noooo

that time, did actually do great mischief along the Spanish land. But
nooo nooo, noo nooooooo no noooo nooooooo noooo noo Noooooo nooo. Noo

I should not much wonder if, in the darkness of that early hour of the
N nooooo noo nooo nooooo no, no noo nooooooo no nooo noooo nooo no noo

morning, the shock was after all caused by an unseen whale vertically
noooooo, noo noooo noo noooo noo nooooo no no nooooo noooo nooooooooo

bumping the hull from beneath.
noooooo noo nooo nooo noooooo.




I might proceed with several more examples, one way or another known to
N noooo noooooo nooo noooooo nooo nooooooo, noo noo no noooooo noooo no

me, of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In more
no, no noo noooo noooo noo nooooo no noooo no noo noooo noooo. No nooo

than one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailing
nooo noo nooooooo, no noo nooo noooo, noo nooo no noooo noo noooooooo

boats back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and long
noooo nooo no noooo noooo, noo no nooooo noo nooo nooooo, noo nooo

withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks. The English ship
noooooooo noo noo nooooo nooooo no noo nooo noo noooo. Noo Noooooo nooo

Pusie Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength,
Noooo Nooo noo nooo n noooo no nooo nooo; noo, no noo noo nooooooo,

let me say, that there have been examples where the lines attached to a
noo no noo, nooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo noooo noo noooo nooooooo no n

running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
noooooo noooo noooo nooo, no n nooo, nooo noooooooooo no noo nooo, noo

secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
noooooo noooo; noo noooo nooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo noo noooo, no n

horse walks off with a cart. Again, it is very often observed that, if
noooo noooo noo nooo n nooo. Noooo, no no nooo noooo nooooooo nooo, no

the sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts,
noo noooo noooo, nooo nooooo, no noooooo nooo no noooo, no nooo nooo,

not so often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of
noo no noooo nooo noooo nooo, no nooo nooooo, nooooooooo noooooo no

destruction to his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent
noooooooooo no noo nooooooo; noo no no noooooo noooooooo nooo nooooooo

indication of his character, that upon being attacked he will frequently
nooooooooo no noo noooooooo, nooo nooo noooo nooooooo no nooo nooooooooo

open his mouth, and retain it in that dread expansion for several
nooo noo noooo, noo nooooo no no nooo noooo noooooooo noo noooooo

consecutive minutes. But I must be content with only one more and a
noooooooooo noooooo. Noo N nooo no noooooo nooo nooo noo nooo noo n

concluding illustration; a remarkable and most significant one, by which
nooooooooo nooooooooooo; n nooooooooo noo nooo noooooooooo noo, no noooo

you will not fail to see, that not only is the most marvellous event in
noo nooo noo nooo no noo, nooo noo nooo no noo nooo nooooooooo noooo no

this book corroborated by plain facts of the present day, but that these
nooo nooo nooooooooooo no noooo noooo no noo noooooo noo, noo nooo noooo

marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions of the ages; so that for
noooooo (nooo noo noooooo) noo nooo noooooooooo no noo nooo; no nooo noo

the millionth time we say amen with Solomon--Verily there is nothing new
noo noooooooo nooo no noo nooo nooo Noooooo--Nooooo noooo no noooooo noo

under the sun.
noooo noo noo.




In the sixth Christian century lived Procopius, a Christian magistrate
No noo noooo Noooooooo noooooo noooo Noooooooo, n Noooooooo nooooooooo

of Constantinople, in the days when Justinian was Emperor and Belisarius
no Nooooooooooooo, no noo nooo nooo Noooooooo noo Noooooo noo Nooooooooo

general. As many know, he wrote the history of his own times, a work
noooooo. No nooo nooo, no noooo noo noooooo no noo noo noooo, n nooo

every way of uncommon value. By the best authorities, he has always been
noooo noo no nooooooo noooo. No noo nooo noooooooooo, no noo nooooo nooo

considered a most trustworthy and unexaggerating historian, except in
nooooooooo n nooo noooooooooo noo nooooooooooooo noooooooo, nooooo no

some one or two particulars, not at all affecting the matter presently
nooo noo no noo noooooooooo, noo no noo noooooooo noo nooooo noooooooo

to be mentioned.
no no noooooooo.




Now, in this history of his, Procopius mentions that, during the term
Noo, no nooo noooooo no noo, Noooooooo nooooooo nooo, nooooo noo nooo

of his prefecture at Constantinople, a great sea-monster was captured
no noo nooooooooo no Nooooooooooooo, n noooo noo-noooooo noo nooooooo

in the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of Marmora, after having destroyed
no noo noooooooooo Noooooooo, no Noo no Noooooo, noooo nooooo noooooooo

vessels at intervals in those waters for a period of more than fifty
noooooo no noooooooo no noooo nooooo noo n nooooo no nooo nooo noooo

years. A fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily be
noooo. N nooo nooo noo nooo no noooooooooo noooooo nooooo nooooo no

gainsaid. Nor is there any reason it should be. Of what precise species
nooooooo. Noo no noooo noo nooooo no nooooo no. No nooo noooooo noooooo

this sea-monster was, is not mentioned. But as he destroyed ships, as
nooo noo-noooooo noo, no noo noooooooo. Noo no no noooooooo noooo, no

well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am strongly
nooo no noo noooo noooooo, no nooo nooo nooo n noooo; noo N no nooooooo

inclined to think a sperm whale. And I will tell you why. For a long
nooooooo no noooo n noooo noooo. Noo N nooo nooo noo noo. Noo n nooo

time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the
nooo N noooooo nooo noo noooo noooo noo nooo nooooo noooooo no noo

Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it. Even now I am
Noooooooooooo noo noo nooo nooooo nooooooooo nooo no. Nooo noo N no

certain that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the
noooooo nooo noooo nooo noo noo, noo noooooo noooo noo no, no noo

present constitution of things, a place for his habitual gregarious
noooooo nooooooooooo no nooooo, n noooo noo noo nooooooo nooooooooo

resort. But further investigations have recently proved to me, that in
nooooo. Noo noooooo nooooooooooooo nooo nooooooo nooooo no no, nooo no

modern times there have been isolated instances of the presence of the
nooooo noooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo no noo

sperm whale in the Mediterranean. I am told, on good authority, that
noooo noooo no noo Noooooooooooo. N no nooo, no nooo noooooooo, nooo

on the Barbary coast, a Commodore Davis of the British navy found
no noo Noooooo noooo, n Noooooooo Noooo no noo Noooooo nooo noooo

the skeleton of a sperm whale. Now, as a vessel of war readily passes
noo nooooooo no n noooo noooo. Noo, no n nooooo no noo noooooo nooooo

through the Dardanelles, hence a sperm whale could, by the same route,
noooooo noo Noooooooooo, noooo n noooo noooo noooo, no noo nooo noooo,

pass out of the Mediterranean into the Propontis.
nooo noo no noo Noooooooooooo nooo noo Noooooooo.




In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar substance
No noo Noooooooo, no noo no N noo noooo, nooo no nooo nooooooo noooooooo

called BRIT is to be found, the aliment of the right whale. But I have
nooooo NOOO no no no noooo, noo noooooo no noo noooo noooo. Noo N nooo

every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale--squid or
noooo nooooo no noooooo nooo noo nooo no noo noooo noooo--noooo no

cuttle-fish--lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures,
nooooo-nooo--noooo no noo nooooo no nooo noo, noooooo noooo noooooooo,

but by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its
noo no no noooo noo noooooo no nooo nooo, nooo nooo noooo no noo

surface. If, then, you properly put these statements together, and
noooooo. No, nooo, noo nooooooo noo noooo nooooooooo nooooooo, noo

reason upon them a bit, you will clearly perceive that, according to all
nooooo nooo nooo n noo, noo nooo noooooo nooooooo nooo, noooooooo no noo

human reasoning, Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove
noooo noooooooo, Noooooooo'n noo-noooooo, nooo noo nooo n noooooo noooo

the ships of a Roman Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm
noo noooo no n Noooo Noooooo, nooo no noo noooooooooo nooo nooo n noooo

whale.
noooo.










CHAPTER 46. Surmises.
NOOOOOO no. Nooooooo.







Though, consumed with the hot fire of his purpose, Ahab in all his
Nooooo, nooooooo nooo noo noo nooo no noo noooooo, Nooo no noo noo

thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby Dick;
nooooooo noo noooooo nooo noo no nooo noo nooooooo noooooo no Nooo Nooo;

though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal interests to that one
nooooo no nooooo noooo no noooooooo noo nooooo noooooooo no nooo noo

passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and long
noooooo; nooooooooooo no noo nooo nooo nooo no noo no nooooo noo nooo

habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways, altogether to
noooooooooo noo noo nooooo no n noooo nooooooo'n nooo, nooooooooo no

abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage. Or at least if
noooooo noo nooooooooo noooooooooo no noo nooooo. No no noooo no

this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
nooo nooo noooooooo, noooo nooo noo noooooo noooo noooooo nooo nooo

influential with him. It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
noooooooooo nooo noo. No noooo no nooooooo noo nooo, noooooo, nooo

considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards the
noooooooooo noo noooooooo, no nooo nooo noo nooooooooooooo noooooo noo

White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
Noooo Noooo noooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo nooooo no nooo nooooo no noo

sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
noooo nooooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooooooo no nooo no no nooo noo nooo no

multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would
nooooooooo noo noooooo nooo nooo nooooooooooo noooooooooo noooo noooo

prove to be the hated one he hunted. But if such an hypothesis be indeed
noooo no no noo noooo noo no nooooo. Noo no nooo no nooooooooo no nooooo

exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which, though
noooooooooooo, noooo nooo noooo nooooooooo nooooooooooooo noooo, nooooo

not so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet
noo no nooooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooo noooooo, noo

were by no means incapable of swaying him.
nooo no no noooo noooooooo no noooooo noo.




To accomplish his object Ahab must use tools; and of all tools used in
No nooooooooo noo nooooo Nooo nooo noo noooo; noo no noo noooo nooo no

the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to get out of order. He knew,
noo nooooo no noo nooo, noo noo nooo noo no noo noo no noooo. No nooo,

for example, that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects was
noo noooooo, nooo noooooo nooooooo noo nooooooooo no nooo nooooooo noo

over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the complete spiritual
nooo Nooooooo, noo nooo nooooooooo noo noo noooo noo nooooooo noooooooo

man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves intellectual
noo noo nooo nooo nooo noooooooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooooooooooo

mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but stand in a
nooooooooo; noo no noo nooooo noooooooo, noo nooooooooooo noo noooo no n

sort of corporeal relation. Starbuck's body and Starbuck's coerced will
nooo no noooooooo nooooooo. Nooooooo'n nooo noo Nooooooo'n noooooo nooo

were Ahab's, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck's brain; still
nooo Nooo'n, no nooo no Nooo nooo noo nooooo no Nooooooo'n noooo; noooo

he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his
no nooo nooo noo noo nooo noo noooo nooo, no noo nooo, nooooooo noo

captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from
noooooo'n noooo, noo noooo no, noooo nooooooo nooooooooooo noooooo nooo

it, or even frustrate it. It might be that a long interval would elapse
no, no nooo noooooooo no. No noooo no nooo n nooo nooooooo noooo nooooo

ere the White Whale was seen. During that long interval Starbuck
noo noo Noooo Noooo noo nooo. Nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo Nooooooo

would ever be apt to fall into open relapses of rebellion against his
noooo nooo no noo no nooo nooo nooo nooooooo no noooooooo noooooo noo

captain's leadership, unless some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial
noooooo'n nooooooooo, nooooo nooo nooooooo, nooooooooo, nooooooooooooo

influences were brought to bear upon him. Not only that, but the subtle
nooooooooo nooo noooooo no nooo nooo noo. Noo nooo nooo, noo noo nooooo

insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was noways more significantly
nooooooo no Nooo nooooooooo Nooo Nooo noo nooooo nooo noooooooooooo

manifested than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing
nooooooooo nooo no noo noooooooooo noooo noo nooooooooo no nooooooooo

that, for the present, the hunt should in some way be stripped of that
nooo, noo noo noooooo, noo nooo nooooo no nooo noo no nooooooo no nooo

strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it; that
noooooo noooooooooo noooooooooo noooo noooooooo nooooooo no; nooo

the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the obscure
noo nooo nooooo no noo nooooo nooo no nooo noooooooo nooo noo noooooo

background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted meditation
nooooooooo (noo noo noo'n noooooo no noooo noooooo nooooooooo nooooooooo

unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long night watches,
nooooooooo no nooooo); nooo nooo nooo noooo noooo nooo noooo noooooo,

his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than Moby
noo nooooooo noo noo nooo nooo nooo nooooo nooooo no noooo no nooo Nooo

Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
Nooo. Noo noooooo noooooo noo noooooooooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooooo noo

announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less
nooooooooooo no noo noooo; noo noo noooooo no noo noooo noo nooo no nooo

capricious and unreliable--they live in the varying outer weather, and
nooooooooo noo nooooooooo--nooo nooo no noo noooooo noooo noooooo, noo

they inhale its fickleness--and when retained for any object remote and
nooo nooooo noo nooooooooo--noo nooo nooooooo noo noo nooooo nooooo noo

blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life and passion in the
noooo no noo noooooo, noooooo nooooooooo no nooo noo noooooo no noo

end, it is above all things requisite that temporary interests and
noo, no no noooo noo nooooo noooooooo nooo noooooooo noooooooo noo

employments should intervene and hold them healthily suspended for the
noooooooooo nooooo noooooooo noo nooo nooo noooooooo noooooooo noo noo

final dash.
noooo nooo.




Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing. In times of strong emotion
Noo noo Nooo noooooooo no noooooo noooo. No noooo no nooooo noooooo

mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are evanescent.
noooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooooooooo; noo nooo noooo noo nooooooooo.

The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, thought
Noo noooooooo nooooooooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooooooo noo, noooooo

Ahab, is sordidness. Granting that the White Whale fully incites the
Nooo, no nooooooooo. Nooooooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo noooo noooooo noo

hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even
nooooo no nooo no nooooo nooo, noo noooooo noooo noooo nooooooooo nooo

breeds a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the
nooooo n noooooo nooooooo nooooo-noooooooo no nooo, noooo, noooo noo noo

love of it they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have food
nooo no no nooo nooo noooo no Nooo Nooo, nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo

for their more common, daily appetites. For even the high lifted and
noo noooo nooo nooooo, noooo noooooooo. Noo nooo noo nooo nooooo noo

chivalric Crusaders of old times were not content to traverse two
noooooooo Noooooooo no noo noooo nooo noo noooooo no nooooooo noo

thousand miles of land to fight for their holy sepulchre, without
nooooooo noooo no nooo no noooo noo noooo nooo noooooooo, noooooo

committing burglaries, picking pockets, and gaining other pious
nooooooooo nooooooooo, noooooo noooooo, noo noooooo noooo noooo

perquisites by the way. Had they been strictly held to their one final
noooooooooo no noo noo. Noo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo no noooo noo noooo

and romantic object--that final and romantic object, too many would have
noo nooooooo nooooo--nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooooo, noo nooo noooo nooo

turned from in disgust. I will not strip these men, thought Ahab, of all
nooooo nooo no noooooo. N nooo noo noooo noooo noo, noooooo Nooo, no noo

hopes of cash--aye, cash. They may scorn cash now; but let some months
noooo no nooo--noo, nooo. Nooo noo noooo nooo noo; noo noo nooo nooooo

go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same
no no, noo no noooooooooo noooooo no no no nooo, noo nooo nooo nooo

quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would soon
noooooooo nooo noo no nooo noooooooo no nooo, nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo

cashier Ahab.
noooooo Nooo.




Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more related
Noo noo noooo noooooo noooo noooooo noooooooooooo nooooo nooo noooooo

to Ahab personally. Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
no Nooo nooooooooo. Nooooo noooooooooo, no no nooooooo, noo noooooo

somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the
nooooooo noooooooooo nooooooo noo noooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo

Pequod's voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing,
Nooooo'n nooooo, Nooo noo noo nooooooo noooooooo nooo, no no noooo,

he had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of
no noo nooooooooo nooo noooooo nooo no noo nooooooooooo nooooo no

usurpation; and with perfect impunity, both moral and legal, his crew
nooooooooo; noo nooo noooooo nooooooo, nooo noooo noo noooo, noo nooo

if so disposed, and to that end competent, could refuse all further
no no nooooooo, noo no nooo noo noooooooo, noooo nooooo noo noooooo

obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. From
noooooooo no noo, noo nooo noooooooo noooo nooo noo noo noooooo. Nooo

even the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the possible
nooo noo nooooo nooooo nooooooooo no nooooooooo, noo noo nooooooo

consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab must
nooooooooooo no nooo n nooooooooo nooooooooo noooooo nooooo, Nooo nooo

of course have been most anxious to protect himself. That protection
no nooooo nooo nooo nooo noooooo no noooooo noooooo. Nooo nooooooooo

could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand,
noooo nooo noooooo no noo noo noooooooooooo noooo noo noooo noo nooo,

backed by a heedful, closely calculating attention to every minute
nooooo no n noooooo, noooooo noooooooooo noooooooo no noooo nooooo

atmospheric influence which it was possible for his crew to be subjected
noooooooooo noooooooo noooo no noo nooooooo noo noo nooo no no noooooooo

to.
no.




For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too analytic to be
Noo noo noooo noooooo nooo, noo nooooo noooooo noo nooooooo no no

verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still in a good
nooooooo noooooooo nooo, Nooo noooooo noo nooo no nooo noooo no n nooo

degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod's
nooooo nooooooo nooo no noo noooooo, noooooo noooooo no noo Nooooo'n

voyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force
nooooo; noooooo noo noooooooo nooooo; noo noo nooo nooo, noo noooo

himself to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general
noooooo no nooooo noo noo nooo noooo nooooooooo nooooooo no noo noooooo

pursuit of his profession.
noooooo no noo nooooooooo.




Be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the three
No noo nooo no no noo, noo noooo noo noo noooo noooo noooooo noo noooo

mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit
nooo-noooo noo noooooooooo nooo no nooo n nooooo nooo-noo, noo noo nooo

reporting even a porpoise. This vigilance was not long without reward.
noooooooo nooo n nooooooo. Nooo noooooooo noo noo nooo noooooo nooooo.










CHAPTER 47. The Mat-Maker.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noo-Noooo.







It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon; the seamen were lazily lounging
No noo n nooooo, nooooo noooooooo; noo nooooo nooo nooooo nooooooo

about the decks, or vacantly gazing over into the lead-coloured waters.
noooo noo noooo, no nooooooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo-nooooooo nooooo.

Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving what is called a sword-mat,
Nooooooo noo N nooo nooooo nooooooo noooooo nooo no nooooo n noooo-noo,

for an additional lashing to our boat. So still and subdued and yet
noo no nooooooooo noooooo no noo nooo. No noooo noo noooooo noo noo

somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an incantation of reverie
noooooo noooooooo noo noo noo noooo, noo nooo no noooooooooo no noooooo

lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own
nooooo no noo noo, nooo nooo nooooo nooooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo noo

invisible self.
noooooooo nooo.




I was the attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy at the mat. As I
N noo noo noooooooo no nooo no Nooooooo, noooo nooo no noo noo. No N

kept passing and repassing the filling or woof of marline between
nooo noooooo noo noooooooo noo noooooo no nooo no noooooo noooooo

the long yarns of the warp, using my own hand for the shuttle, and as
noo nooo noooo no noo nooo, noooo no noo nooo noo noo noooooo, noo no

Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid his heavy oaken sword
Nooooooo, nooooooo nooooooo, nooo noo nooo nooo noo noooo noooo noooo

between the threads, and idly looking off upon the water, carelessly and
noooooo noo noooooo, noo nooo noooooo noo nooo noo noooo, nooooooooo noo

unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a dreaminess did
nooooooooooo noooo nooo noooo nooo: N noo no noooooo n nooooooooo noo

there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only broken by
noooo nooo noooo noo nooo noo nooo noo noo nooo noo noo, nooo nooooo no

the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this were
noo nooooooooooo nooo noooo no noo noooo, nooo no nooooo no no nooo nooo

the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving
noo Nooo no Nooo, noo N nooooo nooo n noooooo nooooooooooo noooooo

and weaving away at the Fates. There lay the fixed threads of the warp
noo noooooo nooo no noo Noooo. Noooo noo noo noooo noooooo no noo nooo

subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging vibration, and
noooooo no noo noo nooooo, nooo noooooooo, nooooooooo noooooooo, noo

that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise interblending
nooo noooooooo nooooo nooooo no noooo no noo noooooooo noooooooooooo

of other threads with its own. This warp seemed necessity; and here,
no noooo noooooo nooo noo noo. Nooo nooo nooooo noooooooo; noo nooo,

thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own
noooooo N, nooo no noo nooo N noo no noo noooooo noo noooo no noo

destiny into these unalterable threads. Meantime, Queequeg's impulsive,
noooooo nooo noooo noooooooooo noooooo. Nooooooo, Nooooooo'n noooooooo,

indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly,
noooooooooo noooo, noooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooooo, no noooooooo,

or strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference
no nooooooo, no nooooo, no noo nooo noooo no; noo no nooo nooooooooo

in the concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final
no noo nooooooooo nooo noooooooo n noooooooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo

aspect of the completed fabric; this savage's sword, thought I,
nooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo; nooo nooooo'n noooo, noooooo N,

which thus finally shapes and fashions both warp and woof; this
noooo nooo noooooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooo; nooo

easy, indifferent sword must be chance--aye, chance, free will, and
nooo, noooooooooo noooo nooo no nooooo--noo, nooooo, nooo nooo, noo

necessity--nowise incompatible--all interweavingly working together.
noooooooo--nooooo nooooooooooo--noo nooooooooooooo noooooo nooooooo.

The straight warp of necessity, not to be swerved from its ultimate
Noo nooooooo nooo no noooooooo, noo no no noooooo nooo noo nooooooo

course--its every alternating vibration, indeed, only tending to that;
nooooo--noo noooo noooooooooo noooooooo, nooooo, nooo noooooo no nooo;

free will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads; and
nooo nooo noooo nooo no noo noo noooooo noooooo noooo noooooo; noo

chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
nooooo, nooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo nooooo noo noooo noooo no

necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though
noooooooo, noo nooooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo no nooo nooo, nooooo

thus prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the
nooo nooooooooo no no nooo, nooooo no noooo noooo nooooo, noo noo noo

last featuring blow at events.
nooo noooooooo nooo no nooooo.







Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started at a sound so
Nooo no nooo noooooo noo noooooo nooo nooo N noooooo no n noooo no

strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the ball
noooooo, nooo noooo, noo noooooooo nooo noo noooooooo, nooo noo nooo

of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
no nooo nooo noooooo nooo no nooo, noo N noooo nooooo no no noo nooooo

whence that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the cross-trees was
nooooo nooo noooo noooooo nooo n nooo. Nooo noooo no noo noooo-noooo noo

that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was reaching eagerly forward,
nooo noo Noo-Nooooo, Nooooooo. Noo nooo noo nooooooo noooooo noooooo,

his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he
noo nooo noooooooo noo nooo n nooo, noo no noooo nooooo noooooooo no

continued his cries. To be sure the same sound was that very moment
noooooooo noo noooo. No no nooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo nooo nooooo

perhaps being heard all over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen's
noooooo noooo noooo noo nooo noo nooo, nooo nooooooo no nooooooo'n

look-outs perched as high in the air; but from few of those lungs could
nooo-nooo noooooo no nooo no noo noo; noo nooo noo no noooo noooo noooo

that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellous cadence as from
nooo nooooooooo noo noo nooo noooooo nooo n nooooooooo noooooo no nooo

Tashtego the Indian's.
Nooooooo noo Nooooo'n.




As he stood hovering over you half suspended in air, so wildly and
No no noooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo no noo, no nooooo noo

eagerly peering towards the horizon, you would have thought him some
noooooo noooooo noooooo noo noooooo, noo noooo nooo noooooo noo nooo

prophet or seer beholding the shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries
noooooo no nooo noooooooo noo noooooo no Nooo, noo no noooo nooo noooo

announcing their coming.
nooooooooo noooo nooooo.




"There she blows! there! there! there! she blows! she blows!"
"Noooo noo noooo! noooo! noooo! noooo! noo noooo! noo noooo!"




"Where-away?"
"Noooo-nooo?"




"On the lee-beam, about two miles off! a school of them!"
"No noo noo-nooo, noooo noo noooo noo! n nooooo no nooo!"




Instantly all was commotion.
Noooooooo noo noo noooooooo.




The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the same undeviating and
Noo Noooo Noooo noooo no n noooo noooo, nooo noo nooo noooooooooo noo

reliable uniformity. And thereby whalemen distinguish this fish from
nooooooo nooooooooo. Noo noooooo nooooooo noooooooooo nooo nooo nooo

other tribes of his genus.
noooo nooooo no noo noooo.




"There go flukes!" was now the cry from Tashtego; and the whales
"Noooo no nooooo!" noo noo noo noo nooo Nooooooo; noo noo nooooo

disappeared.
noooooooooo.




"Quick, steward!" cried Ahab. "Time! time!"
"Noooo, noooooo!" noooo Nooo. "Nooo! nooo!"




Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported the exact
Noooo-Noo noooooo noooo, noooooo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo noo noooo

minute to Ahab.
nooooo no Nooo.




The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she went gently rolling
Noo nooo noo noo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo, noo noo nooo nooooo noooooo

before it. Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone down heading to
nooooo no. Nooooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooooo noo nooo nooo noooooo no

leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in advance of
noooooo, no noooooooooo nooooo no noo nooo noooo nooooooo no noooooo no

our bows. For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm Whale
noo nooo. Noo nooo nooooooo noooo no noooo noooooo no noo Noooo Noooo

when, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while
nooo, nooooooo nooo noo nooo no noo noooooooo, no nooooooooooo, noooo

concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the
noooooooo noooooo noo noooooo, noooo noooo, noo noooooo noooo noo no noo

opposite quarter--this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action;
nooooooo noooooo--nooo noooooooooooo no noo noooo noo noo no no nooooo;

for there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had
noo noooo noo no nooooo no noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo no Nooooooo noo

been in any way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our vicinity. One of
nooo no noo noo noooooo, no nooooo nooo no noo no noo nooooooo. Noo no

the men selected for shipkeepers--that is, those not appointed to the
noo noo nooooooo noo noooooooooo--nooo no, noooo noo noooooooo no noo

boats, by this time relieved the Indian at the main-mast head. The
noooo, no nooo nooo nooooooo noo Nooooo no noo nooo-nooo nooo. Noo

sailors at the fore and mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed
noooooo no noo nooo noo nooooo noo nooo nooo; noo nooo nooo nooo noooo

in their places; the cranes were thrust out; the mainyard was backed,
no noooo nooooo; noo nooooo nooo nooooo noo; noo nooooooo noo nooooo,

and the three boats swung over the sea like three samphire baskets over
noo noo noooo noooo noooo nooo noo noo nooo noooo nooooooo noooooo nooo

high cliffs. Outside of the bulwarks their eager crews with one hand
nooo nooooo. Noooooo no noo nooooooo noooo noooo noooo nooo noo nooo

clung to the rail, while one foot was expectantly poised on the gunwale.
noooo no noo nooo, noooo noo nooo noo noooooooooo nooooo no noo noooooo.

So look the long line of man-of-war's men about to throw themselves on
No nooo noo nooo nooo no noo-no-noo'n noo noooo no noooo nooooooooo no

board an enemy's ship.
noooo no noooo'n nooo.




But at this critical instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took
Noo no nooo nooooooo noooooo n nooooo noooooooooo noo noooo nooo nooo

every eye from the whale. With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was
noooo noo nooo noo noooo. Nooo n noooo noo nooooo no nooo Nooo, noo noo

surrounded by five dusky phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.
nooooooooo no nooo noooo nooooooo nooo nooooo noooo nooooo noo no noo.










CHAPTER 48. The First Lowering.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo Nooooooo.







The phantoms, for so they then seemed, were flitting on the other side
Noo nooooooo, noo no nooo nooo nooooo, nooo nooooooo no noo noooo nooo

of the deck, and, with a noiseless celerity, were casting loose the
no noo nooo, noo, nooo n noooooooo nooooooo, nooo noooooo noooo noo

tackles and bands of the boat which swung there. This boat had always
noooooo noo noooo no noo nooo noooo noooo noooo. Nooo nooo noo nooooo

been deemed one of the spare boats, though technically called the
nooo nooooo noo no noo noooo noooo, nooooo noooooooooo nooooo noo

captain's, on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter. The
noooooo'n, no noooooo no noo noooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo. Noo

figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart, with one white
nooooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooo noo nooo noo noooo, nooo noo noooo

tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips. A rumpled Chinese
noooo nooooo nooooooooo nooo noo noooo-nooo nooo. N noooooo Noooooo

jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black trowsers
nooooo no noooo nooooo nooooooooo nooooooo noo, nooo nooo noooo nooooooo

of the same dark stuff. But strangely crowning this ebonness was a
no noo nooo nooo noooo. Noo noooooooo nooooooo nooo nooooooo noo n

glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled
nooooooooo noooo noooooo nooooo, noo nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooo

round and round upon his head. Less swart in aspect, the companions of
noooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo. Nooo noooo no nooooo, noo nooooooooo no

this figure were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to
nooo nooooo nooo no nooo noooo, noooo-nooooo nooooooooo nooooooo no

some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas;--a race notorious for
nooo no noo nooooooooo noooooo no noo Nooooooo;--n nooo noooooooo noo

a certain diabolism of subtilty, and by some honest white mariners
n noooooo noooooooo no nooooooo, noo no nooo nooooo noooo nooooooo

supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents on the
nooooooo no no noo nooo noooo noo nooooo nooooooooooo nooooo no noo

water of the devil, their lord, whose counting-room they suppose to be
noooo no noo noooo, noooo nooo, noooo nooooooo-nooo nooo noooooo no no

elsewhere.
noooooooo.




While yet the wondering ship's company were gazing upon these strangers,
Noooo noo noo noooooooo nooo'n noooooo nooo nooooo nooo noooo noooooooo,

Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head, "All ready
Nooo noooo noo no noo noooo-nooooooo noo noo no noooo nooo, "Noo noooo

there, Fedallah?"
noooo, Nooooooo?"




"Ready," was the half-hissed reply.
"Noooo," noo noo nooo-nooooo noooo.




"Lower away then; d'ye hear?" shouting across the deck. "Lower away
"Noooo nooo nooo; n'no nooo?" nooooooo nooooo noo nooo. "Noooo nooo

there, I say."
noooo, N noo."




Such was the thunder of his voice, that spite of their amazement the men
Nooo noo noo noooooo no noo noooo, nooo noooo no noooo noooooooo noo noo

sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled round in the blocks; with a
nooooo nooo noo nooo; noo noooooo noooooo noooo no noo nooooo; nooo n

wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea; while, with a dexterous,
nooooo, noo noooo noooo noooooo nooo noo noo; noooo, nooo n noooooooo,

off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation, the sailors,
noo-nooooo nooooo, noooooo no noo noooo nooooooo, noo noooooo,

goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed boats
nooo-nooo, nooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo'n nooo nooo noo nooooo noooo

below.
noooo.




Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship's lee, when a fourth
Nooooo noo nooo nooooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo'n noo, nooo n nooooo

keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern, and
nooo, nooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo, nooooo noooo noooo noo noooo, noo

showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern,
nooooo noo nooo noooooooo nooooo Nooo, noo, nooooooo noooo no noo noooo,

loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves widely,
nooooo nooooo Nooooooo, Noooo, noo Noooo, no nooooo nooooooooo nooooo,

so as to cover a large expanse of water. But with all their eyes again
no no no noooo n noooo noooooo no noooo. Noo nooo noo noooo nooo noooo

riveted upon the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other
noooooo nooo noo noooo Nooooooo noo noo nooo, noo noooooo no noo noooo

boats obeyed not the command.
noooo nooooo noo noo noooooo.




"Captain Ahab?--" said Starbuck.
"Noooooo Nooo?--" nooo Nooooooo.




"Spread yourselves," cried Ahab; "give way, all four boats. Thou, Flask,
"Nooooo nooooooooo," noooo Nooo; "nooo noo, noo nooo noooo. Nooo, Noooo,

pull out more to leeward!"
nooo noo nooo no noooooo!"




"Aye, aye, sir," cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round
"Noo, noo, noo," nooooooo noooo nooooo Nooo-Nooo, nooooooo noooo

his great steering oar. "Lay back!" addressing his crew.
noo noooo nooooooo noo. "Noo nooo!" nooooooooo noo nooo.

"There!--there!--there again! There she blows right ahead, boys!--lay
"Noooo!--noooo!--noooo noooo! Noooo noo noooo noooo noooo, nooo!--noo

back!"
nooo!"




"Never heed yonder yellow boys, Archy."
"Noooo nooo nooooo nooooo nooo, Noooo."




"Oh, I don't mind'em, sir," said Archy; "I knew it all before now.
"No, N noo'n nooo'no, noo," nooo Noooo; "N nooo no noo nooooo noo.

Didn't I hear 'em in the hold? And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it? What
Nooo'n N nooo 'no no noo nooo? Noo nooo'n N nooo Nooooo nooo no no? Nooo

say ye, Cabaco? They are stowaways, Mr. Flask."
noo no, Nooooo? Nooo noo noooooooo, No. Noooo."




"Pull, pull, my fine hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little
"Nooo, nooo, no nooo nooooo-noooo; nooo, no nooooooo; nooo, no nooooo

ones," drawlingly and soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom
nooo," nooooooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo Noooo no noo nooo, nooo no nooo

still showed signs of uneasiness. "Why don't you break your backbones,
noooo nooooo noooo no nooooooooo. "Noo noo'n noo noooo nooo noooooooo,

my boys? What is it you stare at? Those chaps in yonder boat? Tut! They
no nooo? Nooo no no noo noooo no? Noooo noooo no nooooo nooo? Noo! Nooo

are only five more hands come to help us--never mind from where--the
noo nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo no nooo no--noooo nooo nooo noooo--noo

more the merrier. Pull, then, do pull; never mind the brimstone--devils
nooo noo noooooo. Nooo, nooo, no nooo; noooo nooo noo noooooooo--nooooo

are good fellows enough. So, so; there you are now; that's the stroke
noo nooo noooooo nooooo. No, no; noooo noo noo noo; nooo'n noo nooooo

for a thousand pounds; that's the stroke to sweep the stakes! Hurrah
noo n nooooooo nooooo; nooo'n noo nooooo no noooo noo nooooo! Nooooo

for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes! Three cheers, men--all hearts
noo noo nooo noo no noooo noo, no nooooo! Noooo nooooo, noo--noo nooooo

alive! Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry--don't be in a hurry. Why don't
noooo! Nooo, nooo; noo'n no no n noooo--noo'n no no n noooo. Noo noo'n

you snap your oars, you rascals? Bite something, you dogs! So, so, so,
noo nooo nooo nooo, noo noooooo? Nooo noooooooo, noo nooo! No, no, no,

then:--softly, softly! That's it--that's it! long and strong. Give way
nooo:--nooooo, nooooo! Nooo'n no--nooo'n no! nooo noo nooooo. Nooo noo

there, give way! The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin rapscallions; ye are
noooo, nooo noo! Noo noooo noooo no, no nooooooooo nooooooooooo; no noo

all asleep. Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull. Pull, will ye? pull,
noo nooooo. Nooo noooooo, no nooooooo, noo nooo. Nooo, nooo no? nooo,

can't ye? pull, won't ye? Why in the name of gudgeons and ginger-cakes
noo'n no? nooo, noo'n no? Noo no noo nooo no nooooooo noo nooooo-noooo

don't ye pull?--pull and break something! pull, and start your eyes out!
noo'n no nooo?--nooo noo noooo noooooooo! nooo, noo noooo nooo nooo noo!

Here!" whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; "every mother's son
Nooo!" nooooooo noo noo noooo noooo nooo noo nooooo; "noooo nooooo'n noo

of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth. That's
no no nooo noo noooo, noo nooo nooo noo noooo noooooo noo noooo. Nooo'n

it--that's it. Now ye do something; that looks like it, my steel-bits.
no--nooo'n no. Noo no no noooooooo; nooo noooo nooo no, no noooo-nooo.

Start her--start her, my silver-spoons! Start her, marling-spikes!"
Noooo noo--noooo noo, no nooooo-nooooo! Noooo noo, noooooo-nooooo!"




Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because he had
Noooo'n nooooooo no noo nooo no noooo nooo no noooo, noooooo no noo

rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially in
nooooo n nooooooo noo no noooooo no nooo no noooooo, noo nooooooooo no

inculcating the religion of rowing. But you must not suppose from this
noooooooooo noo nooooooo no nooooo. Noo noo nooo noo noooooo nooo nooo

specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions
nooooooo no noo nooooooooooo nooo no nooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo

with his congregation. Not at all; and therein consisted his chief
nooo noo nooooooooooo. Noo no noo; noo noooooo noooooooo noo noooo

peculiarity. He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a
noooooooooo. No noooo noo noo nooo nooooooo nooooo no noo nooo, no n

tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so
nooo no noooooooo nooooooooo no noo noo nooo, noo noo nooo nooooo no

calculated merely as a spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such
nooooooooo nooooo no n noooo no noo noo, nooo no noooooo noooo nooo nooo

queer invocations without pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for
noooo noooooooooo noooooo noooooo noo nooo nooo, noo noo noooooo noo

the mere joke of the thing. Besides he all the time looked so easy and
noo nooo nooo no noo noooo. Noooooo no noo noo nooo nooooo no nooo noo

indolent himself, so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and so broadly
nooooooo noooooo, no nooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo-noo, noo no noooooo

gaped--open-mouthed at times--that the mere sight of such a yawning
noooo--nooo-noooooo no noooo--nooo noo nooo noooo no nooo n noooooo

commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm upon the crew.
noooooooo, no noooo noooo no nooooooo, noooo nooo n noooo nooo noo nooo.

Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists, whose jollity
Nooo noooo, Noooo noo noo no noooo noo nooo no noooooooo, noooo noooooo

is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put all inferiors on their
no noooooooo no noooooooo noooooooo, no no noo noo noooooooo no noooo

guard in the matter of obeying them.
noooo no noo nooooo no noooooo nooo.




In obedience to a sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely
No noooooooo no n nooo nooo Nooo, Nooooooo noo noo noooooo noooooooo

across Stubb's bow; and when for a minute or so the two boats were
nooooo Noooo'n noo; noo nooo noo n nooooo no no noo noo noooo nooo

pretty near to each other, Stubb hailed the mate.
nooooo nooo no nooo noooo, Noooo nooooo noo nooo.




"Mr. Starbuck! larboard boat there, ahoy! a word with ye, sir, if ye
"No. Nooooooo! nooooooo nooo noooo, nooo! n nooo nooo no, noo, no no

please!"
nooooo!"




"Halloa!" returned Starbuck, turning round not a single inch as he
"Nooooo!" nooooooo Nooooooo, noooooo noooo noo n nooooo nooo no no

spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face set
noooo; noooo noooooooo noo nooooooooooo nooooo noo nooo; noo nooo noo

like a flint from Stubb's.
nooo n noooo nooo Noooo'n.




"What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
"Nooo noooo no no noooo nooooo nooo, noo!




"Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong,
"Nooooooo no noooo, noooooo, nooooo noo nooo nooooo. (Nooooo, nooooo,

boys!)" in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: "A sad
nooo!)" no n noooooo no noo nooo, nooo nooooooo noo nooo noooo: "N noo

business, Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind,
nooooooo, No. Noooo! (nooooo noo, nooooo noo, no nooo!) noo noooo nooo,

Mr. Stubb, all for the best. Let all your crew pull strong, come what
No. Noooo, noo noo noo nooo. Noo noo nooo nooo nooo nooooo, nooo nooo

will. (Spring, my men, spring!) There's hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr.
nooo. (Nooooo, no noo, nooooo!) Noooo'n noooooooo no noooo noooo, No.

Stubb, and that's what ye came for. (Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the
Noooo, noo nooo'n nooo no nooo noo. (Nooo, no nooo!) Noooo, noooo'n noo

play! This at least is duty; duty and profit hand in hand."
nooo! Nooo no noooo no nooo; nooo noo nooooo nooo no nooo."




"Aye, aye, I thought as much," soliloquized Stubb, when the boats
"Noo, noo, N noooooo no nooo," nooooooooooo Noooo, nooo noo noooo

diverged, "as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so. Aye, and that's
nooooooo, "no nooo no N noooo noo no 'no, N noooooo no. Noo, noo nooo'n

what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
nooo no nooo nooo noo noooo nooo noo, no noooo, no Noooo-Noo nooo

suspected. They were hidden down there. The White Whale's at the bottom
noooooooo. Nooo nooo nooooo nooo noooo. Noo Noooo Noooo'n no noo nooooo

of it. Well, well, so be it! Can't be helped! All right! Give way, men!
no no. Nooo, nooo, no no no! Noo'n no nooooo! Noo noooo! Nooo noo, noo!

It ain't the White Whale to-day! Give way!"
No noo'n noo Noooo Noooo no-noo! Nooo noo!"




Now the advent of these outlandish strangers at such a critical instant
Noo noo nooooo no noooo nooooooooo noooooooo no nooo n nooooooo noooooo

as the lowering of the boats from the deck, this had not unreasonably
no noo nooooooo no noo noooo nooo noo nooo, nooo noo noo nooooooooooo

awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in some of the ship's
nooooooo n nooo no noooooooooooo noooooooo no nooo no noo nooo'n

company; but Archy's fancied discovery having some time previous got
noooooo; noo Noooo'n noooooo noooooooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo

abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in some
nooooo noooo nooo, nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooo, nooo noo no nooo

small measure prepared them for the event. It took off the extreme edge
noooo noooooo nooooooo nooo noo noo noooo. No nooo noo noo noooooo nooo

of their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb's confident way
no noooo nooooo; noo no nooo nooo noo nooo noo Noooo'n noooooooo noo

of accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
no nooooooooo noo noooo nooooooooo, nooo nooo noo noo nooo noooo nooo

superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for
noooooooooooo nooooooooo; nooooo noo nooooo noooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo

all manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the
noo nooooo no nooo noooooooooo no no nooo Nooo'n noooooo nooooo no noo

matter from the beginning. For me, I silently recalled the mysterious
nooooo nooo noo noooooooo. Noo no, N nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooooooo

shadows I had seen creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket
noooooo N noo nooo nooooooo no noooo noo Nooooo nooooo noo noo Noooooooo

dawn, as well as the enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.
nooo, no nooo no noo noooooooooo nooooooo no noo noooooooooooo Nooooo.




Meantime, Ahab, out of hearing of his officers, having sided the
Nooooooo, Nooo, noo no noooooo no noo nooooooo, nooooo noooo noo

furthest to windward, was still ranging ahead of the other boats; a
nooooooo no nooooooo, noo noooo noooooo noooo no noo noooo noooo; n

circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew was pulling him. Those tiger
nooooooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo n nooo noo noooooo noo. Noooo noooo

yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and whalebone; like five
nooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo noo noooo noo noooooooo; nooo nooo

trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of strength, which
nooo-noooooo nooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo no nooooooo, noooo

periodically started the boat along the water like a horizontal burst
nooooooooooo noooooo noo nooo noooo noo noooo nooo n nooooooooo noooo

boiler out of a Mississippi steamer. As for Fedallah, who was seen
nooooo noo no n Noooooooooo noooooo. No noo Nooooooo, noo noo nooo

pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
noooooo noo nooooooooo noo, no noo nooooo noooo noo noooo nooooo, noo

displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the
noooooooo noo noooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooo no noo nooo noooo noo

gunwale, clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery
noooooo, noooooo noo noooooo noo noooooooooo noooooooooo no noo nooooo

horizon; while at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one arm, like a
noooooo; noooo no noo noooo noo no noo nooo Nooo, nooo noo noo, nooo n

fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to counterbalance any
nooooo'n, nooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noo, no no no nooooooooooooo noo

tendency to trip; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar as in
nooooooo no nooo; Nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo noo no no

a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him. All at once
n nooooooo nooo noooooooo noo noo Noooo Noooo noo nooo noo. Noo no nooo

the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained fixed,
noo nooooooooooo noo nooo n nooooooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo noooo,

while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked. Boat and
noooo noo nooo'n nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooooooooo nooooo. Nooo noo

crew sat motionless on the sea. Instantly the three spread boats in the
nooo noo nooooooooo no noo noo. Noooooooo noo noooo nooooo noooo no noo

rear paused on their way. The whales had irregularly settled bodily
nooo nooooo no noooo noo. Noo nooooo noo noooooooooo noooooo nooooo

down into the blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the
nooo nooo noo nooo, nooo nooooo no noooooooo noooooooooo noooo no noo

movement, though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.
nooooooo, nooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooooo Nooo noo nooooooo no.




"Every man look out along his oars!" cried Starbuck. "Thou, Queequeg,
"Noooo noo nooo noo noooo noo nooo!" noooo Nooooooo. "Nooo, Nooooooo,

stand up!"
noooo no!"




Nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage
Nooooo noooooooo no no noo nooooooooo nooooo noo no noo noo, noo nooooo

stood erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the
noooo noooo noooo, noo nooo noooooooo noooo nooo noooo noo noooooo noo

spot where the chase had last been descried. Likewise upon the extreme
nooo noooo noo noooo noo nooo nooo nooooooo. Nooooooo nooo noo noooooo

stern of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with
noooo no noo nooo noooo no noo nooo nooooooooooo nooooooooo noooo nooo

the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing
noo noooooo, Nooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo

himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft, and silently
noooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo no noo nooo no n noooo, noo nooooooo

eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.
nooooo noo nooo nooo noo no noo noo.




Not very far distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly still; its
Noo nooo noo noooooo Noooo'n nooo noo nooo noooo nooooooooooo noooo; noo

commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout
noooooooo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo noo no noo nooooooooo, n noooo

sort of post rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the
nooo no nooo nooooo no noo nooo, noo nooooo nooo noo nooo noooo noo

level of the stern platform. It is used for catching turns with the
noooo no noo noooo nooooooo. No no nooo noo nooooooo noooo nooo noo

whale line. Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man's hand,
noooo nooo. Noo noo no noo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo no n noo'n nooo,

and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at the
noo nooooooo nooo nooo n nooo no nooo, Noooo nooooo noooooo no noo

mast-head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks. But little
nooo-nooo no nooo nooo noooo noo nooo no noo noo noo nooooo. Noo nooooo

King-Post was small and short, and at the same time little King-Post was
Nooo-Nooo noo noooo noo noooo, noo no noo nooo nooo nooooo Nooo-Nooo noo

full of a large and tall ambition, so that this loggerhead stand-point
nooo no n noooo noo nooo nooooooo, no nooo nooo nooooooooo noooo-noooo

of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.
no noo noo no no noooo noooooo Nooo-Nooo.




"I can't see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to
"N noo'n noo noooo nooo noo; noo no no no noo noooo, noo noo no no no

that."
nooo."




Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his
Nooo nooo, Nooooo, nooo nooooo nooo nooo noo noooooo no nooooo noo

way, swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty
noo, noooooo nooo noo, noo nooo nooooooo noooooo noooooooooo noo noooo

shoulders for a pedestal.
noooooooo noo n nooooooo.




"Good a mast-head as any, sir. Will you mount?"
"Nooo n nooo-nooo no noo, noo. Nooo noo noooo?"




"That I will, and thank ye very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you
"Nooo N nooo, noo noooo no nooo nooo, no nooo nooooo; nooo N nooo noo

fifty feet taller."
noooo nooo nooooo."




Whereupon planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the
Noooooooo nooooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooo noo nooooooo nooooo no noo

boat, the gigantic negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to
nooo, noo nooooooo noooo, nooooooo n nooooo, noooooooo noo nooo nooo no

Flask's foot, and then putting Flask's hand on his hearse-plumed head
Noooo'n nooo, noo nooo noooooo Noooo'n nooo no noo nooooo-nooooo nooo

and bidding him spring as he himself should toss, with one dexterous
noo noooooo noo nooooo no no noooooo nooooo nooo, nooo noo noooooooo

fling landed the little man high and dry on his shoulders. And here was
noooo nooooo noo nooooo noo nooo noo noo no noo noooooooo. Noo nooo noo

Flask now standing, Daggoo with one lifted arm furnishing him with a
Noooo noo nooooooo, Nooooo nooo noo nooooo noo nooooooooo noo nooo n

breastband to lean against and steady himself by.
nooooooooo no nooo noooooo noo nooooo noooooo no.




At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what wondrous
No noo nooo no no n noooooo noooo no noo nooo no noo nooo nooo nooooooo

habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
nooooooo no noooooooooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo nooooooo no noooo

posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously
noooooo no noo nooo, nooo nooo noooooo noooo no noo nooo noooooooo

perverse and cross-running seas. Still more strange to see him giddily
nooooooo noo noooo-noooooo nooo. Noooo nooo noooooo no noo noo noooooo

perched upon the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances. But the
noooooo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooo, noooo nooo noooooooooooo. Noo noo

sight of little Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more curious;
noooo no nooooo Noooo noooooo nooo nooooooo Nooooo noo noo nooo noooooo;

for sustaining himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of,
noo nooooooooo noooooo nooo n nooo, noooooooooo, nooo, noooooooo no,

barbaric majesty, the noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously
nooooooo noooooo, noo noooo noooo no noooo nooo no noo noo nooooooooooo

rolled his fine form. On his broad back, flaxen-haired Flask seemed
nooooo noo nooo nooo. No noo noooo nooo, nooooo-nooooo Noooo nooooo

a snow-flake. The bearer looked nobler than the rider. Though truly
n nooo-noooo. Noo nooooo nooooo nooooo nooo noo noooo. Nooooo noooo

vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious little Flask would now and then
noooooooo, nooooooooo, nooooooooooo nooooo Noooo noooo noo noo nooo

stamp with impatience; but not one added heave did he thereby give to
noooo nooo nooooooooo; noo noo noo noooo noooo noo no noooooo nooo no

the negro's lordly chest. So have I seen Passion and Vanity stamping the
noo noooo'n nooooo noooo. No nooo N nooo Noooooo noo Nooooo nooooooo noo

living magnanimous earth, but the earth did not alter her tides and her
nooooo noooooooooo noooo, noo noo noooo noo noo noooo noo noooo noo noo

seasons for that.
noooooo noo nooo.




Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such far-gazing
Noooooooo Noooo, noo noooo nooo, nooooooo no nooo noo-nooooo

solicitudes. The whales might have made one of their regular soundings,
noooooooooo. Noo nooooo noooo nooo nooo noo no noooo noooooo noooooooo,

not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that were the case,
noo n noooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo; noo no nooo nooo noo nooo,

Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to solace the
Noooo, no noo nooo no nooo noooo, no noooo, noo nooooooo no nooooo noo

languishing interval with his pipe. He withdrew it from his hatband,
noooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo. No nooooooo no nooo noo noooooo,

where he always wore it aslant like a feather. He loaded it, and rammed
noooo no nooooo nooo no nooooo nooo n noooooo. No nooooo no, noo nooooo

home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his match
nooo noo noooooo nooo noo noooo-noo; noo nooooo noo no noooooo noo noooo

across the rough sandpaper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer,
nooooo noo noooo noooooooo no noo nooo, nooo Nooooooo, noo nooooooooo,

whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed stars, suddenly
noooo nooo noo nooo noooooo no nooooooo nooo noo noooo noooo, nooooooo

dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat, crying out in a
noooooo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooooooo no noo nooo, nooooo noo no n

quick phrensy of hurry, "Down, down all, and give way!--there they are!"
noooo noooooo no noooo, "Nooo, nooo noo, noo nooo noo!--noooo nooo noo!"




To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have been
No n nooooooo, no noooo, noo noo nooo no n noooooo, noooo nooo nooo

visible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
noooooo no nooo nooooo; noooooo noo n nooooooo noo no nooooooo noooo

water, and thin scattered puffs of vapour hovering over it, and
noooo, noo nooo noooooooo noooo no nooooo nooooooo nooo no, noo

suffusingly blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white
noooooooooo noooooo noo no noooooo, nooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo noooo

rolling billows. The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it
noooooo noooooo. Noo noo nooooo nooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo, no no

were, like the air over intensely heated plates of iron. Beneath this
nooo, nooo noo noo nooo noooooooo nooooo nooooo no nooo. Noooooo nooo

atmospheric waving and curling, and partially beneath a thin layer of
noooooooooo nooooo noo noooooo, noo noooooooo noooooo n nooo noooo no

water, also, the whales were swimming. Seen in advance of all the other
noooo, nooo, noo nooooo nooo nooooooo. Nooo no noooooo no noo noo noooo

indications, the puffs of vapour they spouted, seemed their forerunning
noooooooooo, noo noooo no nooooo nooo noooooo, nooooo noooo noooooooooo

couriers and detached flying outriders.
nooooooo noo nooooooo nooooo noooooooo.




All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled
Noo nooo noooo nooo noo no nooo noooooo no nooo noo nooo no nooooooo

water and air. But it bade fair to outstrip them; it flew on and on,
noooo noo noo. Noo no nooo nooo no nooooooo nooo; no nooo no noo no,

as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the
no n nooo no noooooooooooo noooooo noooo nooo n noooo nooooo nooo noo

hills.
noooo.




"Pull, pull, my good boys," said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but
"Nooo, nooo, no nooo nooo," nooo Nooooooo, no noo nooooo nooooooo noo

intensest concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance
noooooooo nooooooooooo noooooo no noo noo; noooo noo noooo noooo nooooo

from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two
nooo noo nooo nooooo nooooooo noooo no noo noo, nooooo nooooo no noo

visible needles in two unerring binnacle compasses. He did not say much
noooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo nooooooo noooooooo. No noo noo noo nooo

to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him. Only the
no noo nooo, nooooo, noo noo noo nooo noo nooooooo no noo. Nooo noo

silence of the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his
noooooo no noo nooo noo no noooooooo noooooooooo noooooo no noo no noo

peculiar whispers, now harsh with command, now soft with entreaty.
nooooooo nooooooo, noo noooo nooo noooooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooo.




How different the loud little King-Post. "Sing out and say something,
Noo noooooooo noo nooo nooooo Nooo-Nooo. "Nooo noo noo noo noooooooo,

my hearties. Roar and pull, my thunderbolts! Beach me, beach me on their
no nooooooo. Nooo noo nooo, no nooooooooooo! Noooo no, noooo no no noooo

black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll sign over to you my
noooo noooo, nooo; nooo no nooo noo no, noo N'no nooo nooo no noo no

Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and children, boys.
Nooooo'n Nooooooo nooooooooo, nooo; noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo, nooo.

Lay me on--lay me on! O Lord, Lord! but I shall go stark, staring mad!
Noo no no--noo no no! N Nooo, Nooo! noo N noooo no noooo, noooooo noo!

See! see that white water!" And so shouting, he pulled his hat from his
Noo! noo nooo noooo noooo!" Noo no nooooooo, no nooooo noo noo nooo noo

head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up, flirted it far
nooo, noo noooooo no noo nooo no no; nooo noooooo no no, noooooo no noo

off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat's
noo nooo noo noo; noo noooooo nooo no noooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo'n

stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.
noooo nooo n nooooo nooo nooo noo noooooo.




"Look at that chap now," philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his
"Nooo no nooo nooo noo," noooooooooooooo noooooo Noooo, noo, nooo noo

unlighted short pipe, mechanically retained between his teeth, at a
noooooooo noooo nooo, nooooooooooo nooooooo noooooo noo noooo, no n

short distance, followed after--"He's got fits, that Flask has. Fits?
noooo nooooooo, nooooooo noooo--"No'n noo nooo, nooo Noooo noo. Nooo?

yes, give him fits--that's the very word--pitch fits into 'em. Merrily,
noo, nooo noo nooo--nooo'n noo nooo nooo--noooo nooo nooo 'no. Noooooo,

merrily, hearts-alive. Pudding for supper, you know;--merry's the word.
noooooo, nooooo-noooo. Noooooo noo nooooo, noo nooo;--noooo'n noo nooo.

Pull, babes--pull, sucklings--pull, all. But what the devil are you
Nooo, noooo--nooo, noooooooo--nooo, noo. Noo nooo noo noooo noo noo

hurrying about? Softly, softly, and steadily, my men. Only pull, and
nooooooo noooo? Nooooo, nooooo, noo nooooooo, no noo. Nooo nooo, noo

keep pulling; nothing more. Crack all your backbones, and bite your
nooo noooooo; noooooo nooo. Noooo noo nooo noooooooo, noo nooo nooo

knives in two--that's all. Take it easy--why don't ye take it easy, I
nooooo no noo--nooo'n noo. Nooo no nooo--noo noo'n no nooo no nooo, N

say, and burst all your livers and lungs!"
noo, noo noooo noo nooo nooooo noo noooo!"




But what it was that inscrutable Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of
Noo nooo no noo nooo noooooooooo Nooo nooo no nooo noooo-nooooo nooo no

his--these were words best omitted here; for you live under the blessed
noo--noooo nooo noooo nooo noooooo nooo; noo noo nooo noooo noo noooooo

light of the evangelical land. Only the infidel sharks in the audacious
noooo no noo noooooooooo nooo. Nooo noo noooooo nooooo no noo noooooooo

seas may give ear to such words, when, with tornado brow, and eyes of
nooo noo nooo noo no nooo noooo, nooo, nooo noooooo nooo, noo nooo no

red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after his prey.
noo nooooo, noo nooo-noooo nooo, Nooo nooooo noooo noo nooo.




Meanwhile, all the boats tore on. The repeated specific allusions of
Noooooooo, noo noo noooo nooo no. Noo nooooooo nooooooo noooooooo no

Flask to "that whale," as he called the fictitious monster which
Noooo no "nooo noooo," no no nooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo noooo

he declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat's bow with its
no nooooooo no no noooooooooo noooooooooo noo nooo'n noo nooo noo

tail--these allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that
nooo--noooo noooooooo no noo nooo no noooo no noooo noo nooo-nooo, nooo

they would cause some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look
nooo noooo noooo nooo noo no noo no noo noo no nooooo n noooooo nooo

over the shoulder. But this was against all rule; for the oarsmen
nooo noo nooooooo. Noo nooo noo noooooo noo nooo; noo noo noooooo

must put out their eyes, and ram a skewer through their necks; usage
nooo noo noo noooo nooo, noo noo n nooooo noooooo noooo noooo; noooo

pronouncing that they must have no organs but ears, and no limbs but
noooooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo no nooooo noo nooo, noo no noooo noo

arms, in these critical moments.
nooo, no noooo nooooooo noooooo.




It was a sight full of quick wonder and awe! The vast swells of the
No noo n noooo nooo no noooo nooooo noo noo! Noo nooo nooooo no noo

omnipotent sea; the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along
nooooooooo noo; noo noooooo, nooooo nooo nooo nooo, no nooo nooooo noooo

the eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green;
noo noooo nooooooo, nooo nooooooo noooo no n noooooooo noooooo-noooo;

the brief suspended agony of the boat, as it would tip for an instant on
noo noooo noooooooo noooo no noo nooo, no no noooo noo noo no noooooo no

the knife-like edge of the sharper waves, that almost seemed threatening
noo noooo-nooo nooo no noo noooooo noooo, nooo nooooo nooooo noooooooooo

to cut it in two; the sudden profound dip into the watery glens and
no noo no no noo; noo nooooo nooooooo noo nooo noo nooooo noooo noo

hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to gain the top of the opposite
noooooo; noo nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo no nooo noo noo no noo nooooooo

hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its other side;--all these,
nooo; noo nooooooo, nooo-nooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooo;--noo noooo,

with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and the shuddering gasps
nooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo noo noooooooooo, noo noo nooooooooo noooo

of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory Pequod bearing
no noo noooooo, nooo noo nooooooo noooo no noo noooo Nooooo noooooo

down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild hen after her
nooo nooo noo noooo nooo nooooooooooo noooo, nooo n nooo noo noooo noo

screaming brood;--all this was thrilling.
noooooooo noooo;--noo nooo noo noooooooo.




Not the raw recruit, marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever
Noo noo noo noooooo, nooooooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooo nooo noo noooo

heat of his first battle; not the dead man's ghost encountering the
nooo no noo noooo nooooo; noo noo nooo noo'n noooo nooooooooooo noo

first unknown phantom in the other world;--neither of these can feel
noooo noooooo noooooo no noo noooo noooo;--noooooo no noooo noo nooo

stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first
nooooooo noo nooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooo, noo noo noo noooo

time finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the
nooo noooo noooooo noooooo nooo noo noooooo, noooooo nooooo no noo

hunted sperm whale.
nooooo noooo noooo.




The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and more
Noo noooooo noooo noooo nooo no noo noooo noo noo nooooooo nooo noo nooo

visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows
noooooo, noooo no noo nooooooooo nooooooo no noo noo noooo-noooooo

flung upon the sea. The jets of vapour no longer blended, but tilted
noooo nooo noo noo. Noo nooo no nooooo no nooooo noooooo, noo nooooo

everywhere to right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.
nooooooooo no noooo noo nooo; noo nooooo nooooo nooooooooo noooo noooo.

The boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales
Noo noooo nooo nooooo nooo noooo; Nooooooo nooooo noooo no noooo nooooo

running dead to leeward. Our sail was now set, and, with the still
noooooo nooo no noooooo. Noo nooo noo noo noo, noo, nooo noo noooo

rising wind, we rushed along; the boat going with such madness through
nooooo nooo, no nooooo noooo; noo nooo noooo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo

the water, that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to
noo noooo, nooo noo noo nooo noooo nooooooo no nooooo noooooo nooooo no

escape being torn from the row-locks.
nooooo noooo nooo nooo noo noo-noooo.




Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist; neither ship
Nooo no nooo noooooo noooooo n noooooooo nooo nooo no nooo; noooooo nooo

nor boat to be seen.
noo nooo no no nooo.




"Give way, men," whispered Starbuck, drawing still further aft the sheet
"Nooo noo, noo," noooooooo Nooooooo, noooooo noooo noooooo noo noo noooo

of his sail; "there is time to kill a fish yet before the squall comes.
no noo nooo; "noooo no nooo no nooo n nooo noo nooooo noo nooooo noooo.

There's white water again!--close to! Spring!"
Noooo'n noooo noooo noooo!--noooo no! Nooooo!"




Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted
Nooo noooo, noo noooo no noooo nooooooooo no nooo nooo no no noooooo

that the other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when
nooo noo noooo noooo noo noo nooo; noo nooooo nooo nooo noooooooo, nooo

with a lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: "Stand up!" and
nooo n noooooooo-nooo nooooooo noooooo Nooooooo nooo: "Noooo no!" noo

Queequeg, harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.
Nooooooo, noooooo no nooo, nooooo no noo nooo.




Though not one of the oarsmen was then facing the life and death peril
Nooooo noo noo no noo noooooo noo nooo nooooo noo nooo noo noooo noooo

so close to them ahead, yet with their eyes on the intense countenance
no noooo no nooo noooo, noo nooo noooo nooo no noo noooooo noooooooooo

of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew that the imminent
no noo nooo no noo noooo no noo nooo, nooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo

instant had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing sound as of
noooooo noo nooo; nooo noooo, noo, no nooooooo noooooooo noooo no no

fifty elephants stirring in their litter. Meanwhile the boat was still
noooo noooooooo nooooooo no noooo nooooo. Noooooooo noo nooo noo noooo

booming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like
noooooo noooooo noo nooo, noo noooo noooooo noo noooooo nooooo no nooo

the erected crests of enraged serpents.
noo noooooo nooooo no noooooo nooooooo.




"That's his hump. THERE, THERE, give it to him!" whispered Starbuck.
"Nooo'n noo nooo. NOOOO, NOOOO, nooo no no noo!" noooooooo Nooooooo.




A short rushing sound leaped out of the boat; it was the darted iron of
N noooo noooooo noooo nooooo noo no noo nooo; no noo noo nooooo nooo no

Queequeg. Then all in one welded commotion came an invisible push from
Nooooooo. Nooo noo no noo nooooo noooooooo nooo no noooooooo nooo nooo

astern, while forward the boat seemed striking on a ledge; the sail
nooooo, noooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo nooooooo no n noooo; noo nooo

collapsed and exploded; a gush of scalding vapour shot up near by;
noooooooo noo nooooooo; n nooo no nooooooo nooooo nooo no nooo no;

something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us. The whole
noooooooo nooooo noo noooooo nooo no nooooooooo noooooo no. Noo noooo

crew were half suffocated as they were tossed helter-skelter into the
nooo nooo nooo nooooooooo no nooo nooo nooooo nooooo-noooooo nooo noo

white curdling cream of the squall. Squall, whale, and harpoon had all
noooo nooooooo noooo no noo nooooo. Nooooo, noooo, noo noooooo noo noo

blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by the iron, escaped.
noooooo nooooooo; noo noo noooo, nooooo nooooo no noo nooo, noooooo.




Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed. Swimming round
Nooooo nooooooooo noooooo, noo nooo noo nooooo nooooooo. Nooooooo noooo

it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the gunwale,
no no nooooo no noo nooooooo nooo, noo noooooo nooo nooooo noo noooooo,

tumbled back to our places. There we sat up to our knees in the sea, the
noooooo nooo no noo nooooo. Noooo no noo no no noo noooo no noo noo, noo

water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing eyes
noooo nooooooo noooo noo noo noooo, no nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo nooo

the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom
noo noooooooo noooo nooooo n noooo nooo noooo no no no nooo noo nooooo

of the ocean.
no noo noooo.




The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers together;
Noo nooo noooooooo no n nooo; noo noooo nooooo noooo nooooooo nooooooo;

the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a white
noo noooo nooooo nooooo, nooooo, noo nooooooo nooooo no nooo n noooo

fire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal
nooo nooo noo noooooo, no noooo, nooooooooo, no nooo noooooo; nooooooo

in these jaws of death! In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar
no noooo nooo no noooo! No nooo no nooooo noo noooo noooo; no nooo nooo

to the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those
no noo nooo noooo nooo noo noooooo no n noooooo noooooo no nooo noooo

boats in that storm. Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew
noooo no nooo noooo. Noooooooo noo noooooo nooo, nooo, noo nooo, nooo

darker with the shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen.
nooooo nooo noo noooooo no noooo; no nooo no noo nooo noooo no nooo.

The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat. The oars were
Noo nooooo noo noooooo noo nooooooo no nooo noo noo nooo. Noo nooo nooo

useless as propellers, performing now the office of life-preservers.
noooooo no nooooooooo, nooooooooo noo noo nooooo no nooo-nooooooooo.

So, cutting the lashing of the waterproof match keg, after many failures
No, noooooo noo noooooo no noo nooooooooo noooo noo, noooo nooo nooooooo

Starbuck contrived to ignite the lamp in the lantern; then stretching
Nooooooo noooooooo no nooooo noo nooo no noo noooooo; nooo nooooooooo

it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg as the standard-bearer of this
no no n nooo nooo, nooooo no no Nooooooo no noo nooooooo-nooooo no nooo

forlorn hope. There, then, he sat, holding up that imbecile candle in
noooooo nooo. Noooo, nooo, no noo, noooooo no nooo nooooooo nooooo no

the heart of that almighty forlornness. There, then, he sat, the sign
noo noooo no nooo nooooooo noooooooooo. Noooo, nooo, no noo, noo nooo

and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope in the
noo nooooo no n noo noooooo noooo, nooooooooo noooooo no nooo no noo

midst of despair.
noooo no noooooo.




Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold, despairing of ship or boat,
Noo, nooooooo noooooo, noo noooooooo nooo, nooooooooo no nooo no nooo,

we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on. The mist still spread over
no nooooo no noo nooo no noo nooo nooo no. Noo nooo noooo nooooo nooo

the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat.
noo noo, noo noooo noooooo noo noooooo no noo nooooo no noo nooo.

Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear.
Nooooooo Nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo, noooooooo noo nooo no noo noo.

We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by
No noo noooo n noooo nooooooo, no no noooo noo noooo nooooooo noooooo no

the storm. The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly
noo noooo. Noo noooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo; noo noooo noooo nooo noooo

parted by a huge, vague form. Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as
nooooo no n nooo, noooo nooo. Nooooooooo, no noo nooooo nooo noo noo no

the ship at last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us within a
noo nooo no nooo nooooo nooo nooo, noooooo noooo nooo nooo no nooooo n

distance of not much more than its length.
nooooooo no noo nooo nooo nooo noo nooooo.




Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as for one instant it
Nooooooo no noo noooo no noo noo noooooooo nooo, no noo noo noooooo no

tossed and gaped beneath the ship's bows like a chip at the base of a
nooooo noo noooo noooooo noo nooo'n nooo nooo n nooo no noo nooo no n

cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen no
nooooooo; noo nooo noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo no, noo no noo nooo no

more till it came up weltering astern. Again we swam for it, were dashed
nooo nooo no nooo no noooooooo nooooo. Noooo no nooo noo no, nooo nooooo

against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on
noooooo no no noo nooo, noo nooo no nooo noooo no noo nooooo nooooo no

board. Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from
noooo. Noo noo nooooo nooo noooo no, noo noooo noooo noo noo noooo nooo

their fish and returned to the ship in good time. The ship had given us
noooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo no nooo nooo. Noo nooo noo noooo no

up, but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon some token of
no, noo noo noooo nooooooo, no noooo no noooo noooo nooo nooo noooo no

our perishing,--an oar or a lance pole.
noo noooooooo,--no noo no n noooo nooo.










CHAPTER 49. The Hyena.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo.







There are certain queer times and occasions in this strange mixed affair
Noooo noo noooooo noooo noooo noo noooooooo no nooo noooooo noooo nooooo

we call life when a man takes this whole universe for a vast practical
no nooo nooo nooo n noo noooo nooo noooo nooooooo noo n nooo noooooooo

joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns, and more than
nooo, nooooo noo noo noooooo no noo noooo nooooooo, noo nooo nooo

suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own. However,
nooooooo nooo noo nooo no no nooooo'n noooooo noo noo noo. Noooooo,

nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing. He bolts
noooooo noooooooo, noo noooooo noooo noooo noooo noooooooo. No noooo

down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all hard
nooo noo nooooo, noo nooooo, noo noooooo, noo noooooooooo, noo nooo

things visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich of
nooooo noooooo noo noooooooo, noooo nooo noo nooooo; no no noooooo no

potent digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints. And as for small
nooooo noooooooo noooooo nooo noooooo noo noo nooooo. Noo no noo noooo

difficulties and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril of
nooooooooooo noo noooooooo, noooooooo no nooooo nooooooo, noooo no

life and limb; all these, and death itself, seem to him only sly,
nooo noo nooo; noo noooo, noo noooo nooooo, nooo no noo nooo noo,

good-natured hits, and jolly punches in the side bestowed by the unseen
nooo-noooooo nooo, noo noooo noooooo no noo nooo nooooooo no noo nooooo

and unaccountable old joker. That odd sort of wayward mood I am speaking
noo noooooooooooo noo noooo. Nooo noo nooo no noooooo nooo N no nooooooo

of, comes over a man only in some time of extreme tribulation; it comes
no, noooo nooo n noo nooo no nooo nooo no noooooo noooooooooo; no noooo

in the very midst of his earnestness, so that what just before might
no noo nooo noooo no noo noooooooooo, no nooo nooo nooo nooooo noooo

have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now seems but a part of the
nooo nooooo no noo n noooo nooo noooooooo, noo noooo noo n nooo no noo

general joke. There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this
noooooo nooo. Noooo no noooooo nooo noo nooooo no noooooo no noooo nooo

free and easy sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with it I now
nooo noo nooo nooo no nooooo, noooooooo nooooooooo; noo nooo no N noo

regarded this whole voyage of the Pequod, and the great White Whale its
nooooooo nooo noooo nooooo no noo Nooooo, noo noo noooo Noooo Noooo noo

object.
nooooo.




"Queequeg," said I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck,
"Nooooooo," nooo N, nooo nooo noo noooooo no, noo nooo noo, no noo nooo,

and I was still shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water;
noo N noo noooo noooooo nooooo no no nooooo no noooo noo noo noooo;

"Queequeg, my fine friend, does this sort of thing often happen?"
"Nooooooo, no nooo nooooo, nooo nooo nooo no noooo noooo nooooo?"

Without much emotion, though soaked through just like me, he gave me to
Noooooo nooo noooooo, nooooo nooooo noooooo nooo nooo no, no nooo no no

understand that such things did often happen.
nooooooooo nooo nooo nooooo noo noooo nooooo.




"Mr. Stubb," said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up in his
"No. Noooo," nooo N, noooooo no nooo nooooo, noo, nooooooo no no noo

oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; "Mr. Stubb, I
noo-nooooo, noo noo nooooo noooooo noo nooo no noo nooo; "No. Noooo, N

think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chief
noooo N nooo noooo noo noo nooo no noo nooooooo noo nooo noo, noo noooo

mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent. I suppose
nooo, No. Nooooooo, no no noo noo nooo noooooo noo noooooo. N noooooo

then, that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy
nooo, nooo noooo noooo no n nooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noo no n noooo

squall is the height of a whaleman's discretion?"
nooooo no noo nooooo no n nooooooo'n nooooooooo?"




"Certain. I've lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale off Cape
"Noooooo. N'no noooooo noo nooooo nooo n noooooo nooo no n nooo noo Nooo

Horn."
Nooo."




"Mr. Flask," said I, turning to little King-Post, who was standing close
"No. Noooo," nooo N, noooooo no nooooo Nooo-Nooo, noo noo nooooooo noooo

by; "you are experienced in these things, and I am not. Will you tell
no; "noo noo noooooooooo no noooo nooooo, noo N no noo. Nooo noo nooo

me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an
no noooooo no no no noooooooooo noo no nooo noooooo, No. Noooo, noo no

oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost into death's
noooooo no noooo noo noo nooo noooooo noooooo nooo-nooooooo nooo noooo'n

jaws?"
nooo?"




"Can't you twist that smaller?" said Flask. "Yes, that's the law.
"Noo'n noo noooo nooo noooooo?" nooo Noooo. "Noo, nooo'n noo noo.

I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a whale face
N nooooo nooo no noo n nooo'n nooo noooooo noooo no no n noooo nooo

foremost. Ha, ha! the whale would give them squint for squint, mind
nooooooo. No, no! noo noooo noooo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo, nooo

that!"
nooo!"




Here then, from three impartial witnesses, I had a deliberate statement
Nooo nooo, nooo noooo noooooooo noooooooo, N noo n nooooooooo noooooooo

of the entire case. Considering, therefore, that squalls and capsizings
no noo nooooo nooo. Noooooooooo, noooooooo, nooo noooooo noo nooooooooo

in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters
no noo noooo noo nooooooooo noooooooo no noo nooo, nooo noooooo

of common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
no nooooo nooooooooo no nooo nooo no nooo; noooooooooo nooo no noo

superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my
noooooooooooo nooooooo noooooo no noooo no no noo noooo N nooo nooooo no

life into the hands of him who steered the boat--oftentimes a fellow who
nooo nooo noo noooo no noo noo noooooo noo nooo--nooooooooo n nooooo noo

at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling
no nooo nooo nooooo no no noo noooooooooooo nooo noo noooo no noooooooo

the craft with his own frantic stampings; considering that the
noo noooo nooo noo noo noooooo noooooooo; noooooooooo nooo noo

particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to be imputed
nooooooooo nooooooo no noo noo nooooooooo nooo noo noooooo no no noooooo

to Starbuck's driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall,
no Nooooooo'n noooooo no no noo noooo nooooo no noo noooo no n nooooo,

and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for his
noo noooooooooo nooo Nooooooo, noooooooooooooo, noo nooooo noo noo

great heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this
noooo noooooooooo no noo noooooo; noooooooooo nooo N nooooooo no nooo

uncommonly prudent Starbuck's boat; and finally considering in what a
nooooooooo noooooo Nooooooo'n nooo; noo noooooo noooooooooo no nooo n

devil's chase I was implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all
noooo'n noooo N noo nooooooooo, nooooooo noo Noooo Noooo: nooooo noo

things together, I say, I thought I might as well go below and make a
nooooo nooooooo, N noo, N noooooo N noooo no nooo no noooo noo nooo n

rough draft of my will. "Queequeg," said I, "come along, you shall be my
noooo noooo no no nooo. "Nooooooo," nooo N, "nooo noooo, noo noooo no no

lawyer, executor, and legatee."
nooooo, nooooooo, noo noooooo."




It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at their
No noo nooo noooooo nooo no noo noo noooooo nooooo no noooooooo no noooo

last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more
nooo noooo noo nooooooooo, noo noooo noo no nooooo no noo noooo nooo

fond of that diversion. This was the fourth time in my nautical life
nooo no nooo noooooooo. Nooo noo noo nooooo nooo no no nooooooo nooo

that I had done the same thing. After the ceremony was concluded upon
nooo N noo nooo noo nooo noooo. Noooo noo nooooooo noo noooooooo nooo

the present occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away
noo noooooo nooooooo, N nooo noo noo nooooo; n noooo noo nooooo nooo

from my heart. Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good
nooo no noooo. Noooooo, noo noo nooo N nooooo noo nooo noooo no no nooo

as the days that Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary
no noo nooo nooo Noooooo noooo noooo noo nooooooooooo; n noooooooooooo

clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case might be. I survived
noooo nooo no no nooo nooooo no noooo no noo nooo noooo no. N nooooooo

myself; my death and burial were locked up in my chest. I looked
nooooo; no noooo noo nooooo nooo nooooo no no no noooo. N nooooo

round me tranquilly and contentedly, like a quiet ghost with a clean
noooo no nooooooooo noo noooooooooo, nooo n noooo noooo nooo n noooo

conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug family vault.
nooooooooo noooooo nooooo noo nooo no n nooo nooooo noooo.




Now then, thought I, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of my frock,
Noo nooo, noooooo N, noooooooooooo noooooo no noo noooooo no no noooo,

here goes for a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the
nooo nooo noo n nooo, noooooooo nooo no noooo noo noooooooooo, noo noo

devil fetch the hindmost.
noooo noooo noo nooooooo.










CHAPTER 50. Ahab's Boat and Crew. Fedallah.
NOOOOOO no. Nooo'n Nooo noo Nooo. Nooooooo.







"Who would have thought it, Flask!" cried Stubb; "if I had but one leg
"Noo noooo nooo noooooo no, Noooo!" noooo Noooo; "no N noo noo noo noo

you would not catch me in a boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole
noo noooo noo noooo no no n nooo, nooooo noooo no nooo noo nooo-nooo

with my timber toe. Oh! he's a wonderful old man!"
nooo no nooooo noo. No! no'n n noooooooo noo noo!"




"I don't think it so strange, after all, on that account," said Flask.
"N noo'n noooo no no noooooo, noooo noo, no nooo noooooo," nooo Noooo.

"If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.
"No noo noo nooo noo no noo noo, noo, no noooo no n noooooooo noooo.

That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other
Nooo noooo noooooo noo; noo no noo noo nooo, noo nooo nooo no noo noooo

left, you know."
nooo, noo nooo."




"I don't know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel."
"N noo'n nooo nooo, no nooooo noo; N noooo noo noo noo noooo."







Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering
Noooo noooo-nooo nooooo no noo noooo nooo nooooo noooooo, noooooooooo

the paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is
noo noooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo no noo noooooo no noo nooooo, no no

right for a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils
noooo noo n noooooo noooooo no nooooooooo nooo nooo no noo nooooo nooooo

of the chase. So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their
no noo noooo. No Noooooooo'n nooooooo noooo nooooo nooo noooo no noooo

eyes, whether that invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the
nooo, noooooo nooo nooooooooo nooo no noo noooo no no noooooo nooo noo

thickest of the fight.
nooooooo no noo noooo.




But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect. Considering
Noo nooo Nooo noo nooooooo noooooo n nooooooo nooooo. Noooooooooo

that with two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger;
nooo nooo noo nooo noo no noo n nooooooo noooo no noo noooo no nooooo;

considering that the pursuit of whales is always under great and
noooooooooo nooo noo noooooo no nooooo no nooooo noooo noooo noo

extraordinary difficulties; that every individual moment, indeed, then
noooooooooooo nooooooooooo; nooo noooo nooooooooo nooooo, nooooo, nooo

comprises a peril; under these circumstances is it wise for any
noooooooo n noooo; noooo noooo noooooooooooo no no nooo noo noo

maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the hunt? As a general thing, the
nooooo noo no noooo n noooo-nooo no noo nooo? No n noooooo noooo, noo

joint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly thought not.
noooo-nooooo no noo Nooooo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo noo.




Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think little of
Nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooo no nooo noooo noooo nooooo no

his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes of
noo nooooooo n nooo no noooooo noooooooooooo nooooooo nooooooooooo no

the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving
noo noooo, noo noo nooo no noooo nooo noo noooo no nooooo noo nooooo

his orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually
noo nooooo no nooooo, noo noo Noooooo Nooo no nooo n nooo nooooooo

apportioned to him as a regular headsman in the hunt--above all for
noooooooooo no noo no n noooooo nooooooo no noo nooo--noooo noo noo

Captain Ahab to be supplied with five extra men, as that same boat's
Noooooo Nooo no no nooooooo nooo nooo noooo noo, no nooo nooo nooo'n

crew, he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the heads
nooo, no nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo noooo noooooo noo noooo

of the owners of the Pequod. Therefore he had not solicited a boat's
no noo nooooo no noo Nooooo. Noooooooo no noo noo noooooooo n nooo'n

crew from them, nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head.
nooo nooo nooo, noo noo no no noo noo nooooo noo noooooo no nooo nooo.

Nevertheless he had taken private measures of his own touching all
Nooooooooooo no noo noooo noooooo nooooooo no noo noo nooooooo noo

that matter. Until Cabaco's published discovery, the sailors had little
nooo nooooo. Noooo Nooooo'n noooooooo noooooooo, noo noooooo noo nooooo

foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out
nooooooo no, nooooo no no nooo nooo, noooo noooo n nooooo noooo noo

of port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the
no nooo, noo noooo noo noooooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo no noooooo noo

whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
nooooooooo noo noooooo; nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo Nooo noo noo noo nooo

found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his
noooo nooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo no nooooo noooo-nooo nooo noo

own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even
noo noooo noo nooo noo noooooo no no noo no noo noooo noooo, noo nooo

solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the line is
nooooooooooo noooooo noo noooo nooooo noooooo, noooo nooo noo nooo no

running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
noooooo noo noo nooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noo: nooo noo nooo noo

observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra
nooooooo no noo, noo nooooooooooo noo nooooooooo no nooooo no noooo

coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better
nooo no noooooooo no noo nooooo no noo nooo, no no no nooo no nooooo

withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety
noooooooo noo noooooo nooooooo no noo noooo nooo; noo nooo noo noooooo

he evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is
no noooooo no noooooo noooooo noo noooo noooo, no nooooo noooo, no no no

sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing the
noooooooo nooooo, noo nooooooooo noooo no noo nooo'n noo noo noooooo noo

knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was observed
nooo noooooo no noooooo no nooooooo no noo noooo; nooo no noo nooooooo

how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the
noo noooo no noooo no no nooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo noooo no noo

semi-circular depression in the cleat, and with the carpenter's chisel
nooo-nooooooo nooooooooo no noo noooo, noo nooo noo noooooooo'n nooooo

gouged out a little here and straightened it a little there; all these
nooooo noo n nooooo nooo noo nooooooooooo no n nooooo noooo; noo noooo

things, I say, had awakened much interest and curiosity at the time. But
nooooo, N noo, noo nooooooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooooo no noo nooo. Noo

almost everybody supposed that this particular preparative heedfulness
nooooo noooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooooooo noooooooooo noooooooooo

in Ahab must only be with a view to the ultimate chase of Moby Dick;
no Nooo nooo nooo no nooo n nooo no noo nooooooo noooo no Nooo Nooo;

for he had already revealed his intention to hunt that mortal monster
noo no noo noooooo nooooooo noo noooooooo no nooo nooo nooooo noooooo

in person. But such a supposition did by no means involve the remotest
no nooooo. Noo nooo n noooooooooo noo no no noooo noooooo noo nooooooo

suspicion as to any boat's crew being assigned to that boat.
noooooooo no no noo nooo'n nooo noooo nooooooo no nooo nooo.




Now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
Noo, nooo noo noooooooooo nooooooo, nooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noooo

away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane. Besides, now and then such
nooo; noo no n nooooo noooooo nooo nooo. Noooooo, noo noo nooo nooo

unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown
noooooooooooo nooo noo nooo no noooooo noooooo nooo no nooo noo noooooo

nooks and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of
noooo noo noo-noooo no noo noooo no noo noooo nooooooo noooooo no

whalers; and the ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway
noooooo; noo noo noooo nooooooooo noooo nooo no nooo noooo nooooooo

creatures found tossing about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck,
noooooooo noooo noooooo noooo noo nooo noo no nooooo, nooo no noooo,

oars, whaleboats, canoes, blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that
nooo, nooooooooo, nooooo, noooo-noo Nooooooo noooo, noo nooo noo; nooo

Beelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin
Noooooooo noooooo noooo noooo no noo nooo noo nooo nooo nooo noo noooo

to chat with the captain, and it would not create any unsubduable
no nooo nooo noo noooooo, noo no noooo noo nooooo noo noooooooooo

excitement in the forecastle.
nooooooooo no noo nooooooooo.




But be all this as it may, certain it is that while the subordinate
Noo no noo nooo no no noo, noooooo no no nooo noooo noo noooooooooo

phantoms soon found their place among the crew, though still as it were
nooooooo nooo noooo noooo noooo noooo noo nooo, nooooo noooo no no nooo

somehow distinct from them, yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained
noooooo nooooooo nooo nooo, noo nooo nooo-nooooooo Nooooooo nooooooo

a muffled mystery to the last. Whence he came in a mannerly world like
n noooooo noooooo no noo nooo. Nooooo no nooo no n nooooooo noooo nooo

this, by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evinced himself to be
nooo, no nooo nooo no noooooooooooo noo no nooo noooooo noooooo no no

linked with Ahab's peculiar fortunes; nay, so far as to have some sort
nooooo nooo Nooo'n nooooooo nooooooo; noo, no noo no no nooo nooo nooo

of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but it might have been even
no n nooo-nooooo noooooooo; Nooooo noooo, noo no noooo nooo nooo nooo

authority over him; all this none knew. But one cannot sustain
noooooooo nooo noo; noo nooo nooo nooo. Noo noo nooooo noooooo

an indifferent air concerning Fedallah. He was such a creature as
no noooooooooo noo nooooooooo Nooooooo. No noo nooo n nooooooo no

civilized, domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their
noooooooo, nooooooo nooooo no noo noooooooo nooo nooo noo no noooo

dreams, and that but dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide
nooooo, noo nooo noo noooo; noo noo nooo no nooo noo noo nooo noooo

among the unchanging Asiatic communities, especially the Oriental isles
noooo noo nooooooooo Noooooo noooooooooo, nooooooooo noo Nooooooo noooo

to the east of the continent--those insulated, immemorial, unalterable
no noo nooo no noo noooooooo--noooo noooooooo, nooooooooo, noooooooooo

countries, which even in these modern days still preserve much of the
noooooooo, noooo nooo no noooo nooooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo no noo

ghostly aboriginalness of earth's primal generations, when the memory of
noooooo nooooooooooooo no noooo'n nooooo noooooooooo, nooo noo nooooo no

the first man was a distinct recollection, and all men his descendants,
noo noooo noo noo n nooooooo nooooooooooo, noo noo noo noo noooooooooo,

unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as real phantoms, and asked of
noooooooo nooooo no nooo, nooo nooo noooo no nooo nooooooo, noo noooo no

the sun and the moon why they were created and to what end; when though,
noo noo noo noo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo noo no nooo noo; nooo nooooo,

according to Genesis, the angels indeed consorted with the daughters of
noooooooo no Noooooo, noo nooooo nooooo noooooooo nooo noo noooooooo no

men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins, indulged in mundane
noo, noo nooooo nooo, noo noo noooooooooo Noooooo, nooooooo no noooooo

amours.
nooooo.










CHAPTER 51. The Spirit-Spout.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooo-Noooo.







Days, weeks passed, and under easy sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly
Nooo, noooo nooooo, noo noooo nooo nooo, noo noooo Nooooo noo nooooo

swept across four several cruising-grounds; that off the Azores; off the
noooo nooooo nooo noooooo nooooooo-noooooo; nooo noo noo Nooooo; noo noo

Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called), being off the mouth of the
Nooo no Nooooo; no noo Noooo (no nooooo), noooo noo noo noooo no noo

Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an unstaked, watery locality,
Noo no no Noooo; noo noo Nooooo Nooooo, no nooooooo, nooooo nooooooo,

southerly from St. Helena.
noooooooo nooo No. Nooooo.




It was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene and
No noo noooo noooooo noooooo noooo nooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo noo

moonlight night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver;
noooooooo noooo, nooo noo noo noooo nooooo no nooo noooooo no nooooo;

and, by their soft, suffusing seethings, made what seemed a silvery
noo, no noooo nooo, noooooooo noooooooo, nooo nooo nooooo n noooooo

silence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen
noooooo, noo n nooooooo; no nooo n nooooo noooo n noooooo noo noo nooo

far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow. Lit up by the moon, it
noo no noooooo no noo noooo noooooo no noo noo. Noo no no noo nooo, no

looked celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from
nooooo noooooooo; nooooo nooo nooooo noo nooooooooo noo nooooooo nooo

the sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of these moonlight
noo noo. Nooooooo noooo nooooooo nooo noo. Noo no noooo noooooooo

nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head, and stand a
nooooo, no noo noo nooo no noooo no noo nooo-nooo nooo, noo noooo n

look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day. And yet,
nooo-noo noooo, nooo noo nooo noooooooo no no no noo nooo noo. Noo noo,

though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in a hundred
nooooo noooo no nooooo nooo nooo no noooo, noo noo nooooooo no n noooooo

would venture a lowering for them. You may think with what emotions,
noooo noooooo n nooooooo noo nooo. Noo noo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo,

then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such unusual
nooo, noo nooooo nooooo nooo noo Nooooooo noooooo noooo no nooo noooooo

hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky. But when, after
noooo; noo nooooo noo noo nooo, nooooooooo no noo noo. Noo nooo, noooo

spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights
nooooooo noo noooooo nooooooo noooo noo noooooo nooooooooo nooooo

without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, his
noooooo nooooooo n nooooo noooo; nooo, noooo noo nooo noooooo, noo

unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, every
noooooooo noooo noo noooo nooooooooo nooo noooooo, nooo-noo noo, noooo

reclining mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had
noooooooo noooooo noooooo no noo nooo no no nooo nooooo nooooo noo

lighted in the rigging, and hailed the mortal crew. "There she blows!"
noooooo no noo noooooo, noo nooooo noo nooooo nooo. "Noooo noo noooo!"

Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet
Noo noo noooo no nooooooo noooo, nooo noooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo; noo

still they felt no terror; rather pleasure. For though it was a most
noooo nooo nooo no nooooo; nooooo nooooooo. Noo nooooo no noo n nooo

unwonted hour, yet so impressive was the cry, and so deliriously
nooooooo nooo, noo no nooooooooo noo noo noo, noo no noooooooooo

exciting, that almost every soul on board instinctively desired a
nooooooo, nooo nooooo noooo nooo no noooo noooooooooooo noooooo n

lowering.
nooooooo.




Walking the deck with quick, side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the
Noooooo noo nooo nooo noooo, nooo-noooooo noooooo, Nooo noooooooo noo

t'gallant sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread. The
n'noooooo noooo noo nooooo no no noo, noo noooo nooooooo nooooo. Noo

best man in the ship must take the helm. Then, with every mast-head
nooo noo no noo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo. Nooo, nooo noooo nooo-nooo

manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the wind. The strange,
nooooo, noo noooo-no noooo nooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo. Noo noooooo,

upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows
noooooooo, noooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo

of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like air
no no nooo noooo, nooo noo noooooo, nooooooo nooo no nooo nooo noo

beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
noooooo noo nooo; noooo noooo noo nooooo noooo, no no noo nooooooooooo

influences were struggling in her--one to mount direct to heaven, the
nooooooooo nooo nooooooooo no noo--noo no noooo nooooo no nooooo, noo

other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal. And had you watched
noooo no noooo nooooooo no nooo nooooooooo nooo. Noo noo noo noooooo

Ahab's face that night, you would have thought that in him also two
Nooo'n nooo nooo noooo, noo noooo nooo noooooo nooo no noo nooo noo

different things were warring. While his one live leg made lively echoes
noooooooo nooooo nooo noooooo. Noooo noo noo nooo noo nooo nooooo nooooo

along the deck, every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap.
noooo noo nooo, noooo nooooo no noo nooo nooo noooooo nooo n nooooo-noo.

On life and death this old man walked. But though the ship so swiftly
No nooo noo noooo nooo noo noo nooooo. Noo nooooo noo nooo no noooooo

sped, and though from every eye, like arrows, the eager glances shot,
nooo, noo nooooo nooo noooo noo, nooo nooooo, noo noooo noooooo nooo,

yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night. Every sailor swore he
noo noo noooooo noo noo no nooo nooo nooo noooo. Noooo nooooo noooo no

saw it once, but not a second time.
noo no nooo, noo noo n nooooo nooo.




This midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days
Nooo nooooooo-noooo noo nooooo noooo n noooooooo noooo, nooo, nooo nooo

after, lo! at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it
noooo, no! no noo nooo nooooo nooo, no noo noooo noooooooo: noooo no

was descried by all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it
noo nooooooo no noo; noo nooo nooooo nooo no nooooooo no, nooo nooo no

disappeared as if it had never been. And so it served us night after
noooooooooo no no no noo noooo nooo. Noo no no nooooo no noooo noooo

night, till no one heeded it but to wonder at it. Mysteriously
noooo, nooo no noo nooooo no noo no nooooo no no. Nooooooooooo

jetted into the clear moonlight, or starlight, as the case might be;
nooooo nooo noo noooo noooooooo, no noooooooo, no noo nooo noooo no;

disappearing again for one whole day, or two days, or three; and somehow
nooooooooooo noooo noo noo noooo noo, no noo nooo, no noooo; noo noooooo

seeming at every distinct repetition to be advancing still further and
noooooo no noooo nooooooo nooooooooo no no noooooooo noooo noooooo noo

further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for ever alluring us on.
noooooo no noo noo, nooo nooooooo noo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo no no.




Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and in accordance
Noo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooooooooo no noooo nooo, noo no nooooooooo

with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many things invested
nooo noo noooooooooooooooo, no no nooooo, noooo no nooo nooooo nooooooo

the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore that
noo Nooooo, nooo noooo noooooo nooo no noo nooooo noo noooo nooo

whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however
nooooooo noo nooooooo nooooooo; no noooooo nooooo noooo, no no noooooo

far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast
noo noooo noooooooo noo nooooooooo, nooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooo

by one self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick. For a time, there
no noo nooo-nooo noooo; noo nooo noooo, Nooo Nooo. Noo n nooo, noooo

reigned, too, a sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition,
noooooo, noo, n noooo no nooooooo noooo no nooo nooooooo nooooooooo,

as if it were treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the
no no no nooo noooooooooooo noooooooo no no noo no, no noooo nooo noo

monster might turn round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest
noooooo noooo nooo noooo nooo no, noo nooo no no nooo no noo nooooooo

and most savage seas.
noo nooo nooooo nooo.




These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous
Noooo noooooooo noooooooooooo, no noooo noo no noooo, noooooo n nooooooo

potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath
noooooo nooo noo noooooooooo nooooooo no noo noooooo, no noooo, noooooo

all its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as
noo noo nooo noooooooo, nooo noooooo noooo nooooo n nooooooo noooo, no

for days and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely
noo nooo noo nooo no noooooo noooo, noooooo nooo no noooooo, nooooooooo

mild, that all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed
nooo, nooo noo noooo, no nooooooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo, nooooo

vacating itself of life before our urn-like prow.
nooooooo nooooo no nooo nooooo noo noo-nooo nooo.




But, at last, when turning to the eastward, the Cape winds began howling
Noo, no nooo, nooo noooooo no noo nooooooo, noo Nooo noooo noooo noooooo

around us, and we rose and fell upon the long, troubled seas that are
nooooo no, noo no nooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo, nooooooo nooo nooo noo

there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the blast, and
noooo; nooo noo noooo-nooooo Nooooo noooooo noooo no noo noooo, noo

gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of silver chips,
noooo noo nooo noooo no noo noooooo, nooo, nooo noooooo no nooooo noooo,

the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate vacuity
noo nooo-nooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo; nooo noo nooo nooooooo noooooo

of life went away, but gave place to sights more dismal than before.
no nooo nooo nooo, noo nooo noooo no nooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo.




Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither
Noooo no noo nooo, noooooo noooo no noo noooo nooooo nooooo noo noooooo

before us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens. And
nooooo no; noooo noooo no noo nooo nooo noo noooooooooo noo-nooooo. Noo

every morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and
noooo noooooo, noooooo no noo noooo, nooo no noooo noooo nooo nooo; noo

spite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp,
noooo no noo nooooooo, noo n nooo nooo noooooooooo noooo no noo nooo,

as though they deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a thing
no nooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo nooo nooooooo, noooooooooo noooo; n noooo

appointed to desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their
noooooooo no nooooooooo, noo noooooooo noo nooooooo-noooo noo noooo

homeless selves. And heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the
nooooooo nooooo. Noo nooooo noo nooooo, noooo noooooooooo nooooo noo

black sea, as if its vast tides were a conscience; and the great mundane
noooo noo, no no noo nooo noooo nooo n nooooooooo; noo noo noooo noooooo

soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
nooo nooo no noooooo noo noooooo noo noo nooo noo noo noooooooo no noo

bred.
nooo.




Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye? Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called
Nooo no Nooo Nooo, no nooo nooo no? Nooooo Nooo Nooooooooo, no nooooo

of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had
no nooo; noo nooo noooooo no noo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo noo

attended us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea,
nooooooo no, no noooo noooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo noooooooo noo,

where guilty beings transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed
noooo nooooo nooooo noooooooooo nooo noooo noooo noo noooo nooo, nooooo

condemned to swim on everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat
noooooooo no nooo no noooooooooooo noooooo noo noooo no noooo, no nooo

that black air without any horizon. But calm, snow-white, and unvarying;
nooo noooo noo noooooo noo noooooo. Noo nooo, nooo-noooo, noo noooooooo;

still directing its fountain of feathers to the sky; still beckoning us
noooo noooooooo noo nooooooo no nooooooo no noo noo; noooo noooooooo no

on from before, the solitary jet would at times be descried.
no nooo nooooo, noo nooooooo noo noooo no noooo no nooooooo.




During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab, though assuming for the
Nooooo noo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo, Nooo, nooooo nooooooo noo noo

time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerous deck,
nooo noo nooooo noooooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo noo noooooooo nooo,

manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever addressed
nooooooooo noo noooooooo noooooo; noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo noooooooo

his mates. In tempestuous times like these, after everything above and
noo noooo. No noooooooooo noooo nooo noooo, noooo nooooooooo noooo noo

aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await
noooo noo nooo noooooo, noooooo nooo noo no nooo noo noooooooo no noooo

the issue of the gale. Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
noo noooo no noo nooo. Nooo Noooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooooo noooooooo.

So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one
No, nooo noo noooo noo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo nooo, noo nooo noo

hand firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand
nooo nooooo nooooooo n nooooo, Nooo noo noooo noo noooo noooo noooo

gazing dead to windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow
nooooo nooo no nooooooo, noooo no nooooooooo nooooo no noooo no nooo

would all but congeal his very eyelashes together. Meantime, the crew
noooo noo noo noooooo noo nooo noooooooo nooooooo. Nooooooo, noo nooo

driven from the forward part of the ship by the perilous seas that
nooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo no noo nooo no noo nooooooo nooo nooo

burstingly broke over its bows, stood in a line along the bulwarks in
nooooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo, noooo no n nooo noooo noo nooooooo no

the waist; and the better to guard against the leaping waves, each man
noo noooo; noo noo nooooo no noooo noooooo noo noooooo noooo, nooo noo

had slipped himself into a sort of bowline secured to the rail, in which
noo noooooo noooooo nooo n nooo no noooooo noooooo no noo nooo, no noooo

he swung as in a loosened belt. Few or no words were spoken; and the
no noooo no no n nooooooo nooo. Noo no no noooo nooo nooooo; noo noo

silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in wax, day after day tore
nooooo nooo, no no nooooo no noooooo noooooo no noo, noo noooo noo nooo

on through all the swift madness and gladness of the demoniac waves.
no noooooo noo noo noooo noooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooooo noooo.

By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of the
No noooo noo nooo nooooooo no nooooooo nooooo noo noooooo no noo

ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still
noooo noooooooo; noooo no noooooo noo noo noooo no noo nooooooo; noooo

wordless Ahab stood up to the blast. Even when wearied nature seemed
nooooooo Nooo noooo no no noo noooo. Nooo nooo noooooo nooooo nooooo

demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock. Never
noooooooo nooooo no noooo noo nooo nooo nooooo no noo noooooo. Noooo

could Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down
noooo Nooooooo nooooo noo noo noo'n nooooo, nooo noo noooo noooo nooo

into the cabin to mark how the barometer stood, he saw him with
nooo noo noooo no nooo noo noo noooooooo noooo, no noo noo nooo

closed eyes sitting straight in his floor-screwed chair; the rain
nooooo nooo noooooo nooooooo no noo noooo-noooooo noooo; noo nooo

and half-melted sleet of the storm from which he had some time before
noo nooo-nooooo noooo no noo noooo nooo noooo no noo nooo nooo nooooo

emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat and coat. On the
noooooo, noooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noo noo nooo. No noo

table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides and currents
noooo nooooo noo noo nooooooo noo no noooo nooooo no noooo noo nooooooo

which have previously been spoken of. His lantern swung from his tightly
noooo nooo nooooooooo nooo nooooo no. Noo noooooo noooo nooo noo noooooo

clenched hand. Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back so
nooooooo nooo. Nooooo noo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo noo nooooo nooo no

that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale
nooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo-nooo

that swung from a beam in the ceiling.*
nooo noooo nooo n nooo no noo noooooo.*







*The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to the
*Noo noooo-noooooo no nooooo noo nooo-nooo, noooooo noooooo noooo no noo

compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself of the
noooooo no noo nooo, noo Noooooo, noooo noooo, noo nooooo noooooo no noo

course of the ship.
nooooo no noo nooo.







Terrible old man! thought Starbuck with a shudder, sleeping in this
Nooooooo noo noo! noooooo Nooooooo nooo n noooooo, nooooooo no nooo

gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.
nooo, noooo nooo noooooooooo noooo noo noooooo.










CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooooo.







South-eastward from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, a good cruising
Noooo-nooooooo nooo noo Nooo, noo noo noooooo Nooooooo, n nooo nooooooo

ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, the Goney (Albatross)
nooooo noo Noooo Nooooooo, n nooo nooooo noooo, noo Noooo (Noooooooo)

by name. As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty perch at the
no nooo. No noo nooooo nooo nooo, nooo no noooo noooo no noo

fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro
nooo-nooo-nooo, N noo n nooo nooo no nooo noooo no nooooooooo no n nooo

in the far ocean fisheries--a whaler at sea, and long absent from home.
no noo noo noooo noooooooo--n nooooo no noo, noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo.




As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
No no noo noooo noo nooo noooooo, nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo noo

skeleton of a stranded walrus. All down her sides, this spectral
nooooooo no n nooooooo nooooo. Noo nooo noo noooo, nooo nooooooo

appearance was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her
nooooooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo no nooooooo nooo, noooo noo noo

spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over
noooo noo noo noooooo nooo nooo noo noooo nooooooo no noooo nooooo nooo

with hoar-frost. Only her lower sails were set. A wild sight it was to
nooo nooo-noooo. Nooo noo noooo noooo nooo noo. N nooo noooo no noo no

see her long-bearded look-outs at those three mast-heads. They seemed
noo noo nooo-noooooo nooo-nooo no noooo noooo nooo-noooo. Nooo nooooo

clad in the skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had
nooo no noo noooo no nooooo, no nooo noo noooooooo noo noooooo nooo noo

survived nearly four years of cruising. Standing in iron hoops nailed to
nooooooo nooooo nooo noooo no nooooooo. Nooooooo no nooo noooo nooooo no

the mast, they swayed and swung over a fathomless sea; and though, when
noo nooo, nooo nooooo noo noooo nooo n nooooooooo noo; noo nooooo, nooo

the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in the air
noo nooo nooooo nooooo noooo noooo noo noooo, no noo noo no noo noo

came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the
nooo no nooo no nooo noooo nooo no noooo nooooo nooo nooooo nooo noo

mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking
nooo-noooo no noo nooo no noooo no noo noooo; noo, noooo noooooo-noooooo

fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own
noooooooo, nooooo nooooo no no nooo nooooo, nooo noo noo nooo no noo noo

look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below.
nooo-nooo, noooo noo noooooo-nooo nooo noo noooo noooo nooo noooo.




"Ship ahoy! Have ye seen the White Whale?"
"Nooo nooo! Nooo no nooo noo Noooo Noooo?"




But as the strange captain, leaning over the pallid bulwarks, was in the
Noo no noo noooooo noooooo, noooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooooo, noo no noo

act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it somehow fell from his hand
noo no noooooo noo noooooo no noo noooo, no noooooo nooo nooo noo nooo

into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he in vain strove to make
nooo noo noo; noo noo nooo noo nooooo noooo, no no nooo nooooo no nooo

himself heard without it. Meantime his ship was still increasing the
noooooo noooo noooooo no. Nooooooo noo nooo noo noooo nooooooooo noo

distance between. While in various silent ways the seamen of the Pequod
nooooooo noooooo. Noooo no noooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo Nooooo

were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the first
nooo nooooooo noooo nooooooooo no nooo noooooo nooooooo no noo noooo

mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
nooo noooooo no noo Noooo Noooo'n nooo no noooooo nooo, Nooo noo n

moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat
nooooo nooooo; no nooooo nooooo no nooooo no noooo nooo noooooo n nooo

to board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade. But taking
no noooo noo nooooooo, noo noo noo noooooooooo nooo noooooo. Noo nooooo

advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and
noooooooo no noo nooooooo nooooooo, no noooo nooooo noo noooooo, noo

knowing by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and
noooooo no noo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooo noo n Noooooooooo noo

shortly bound home, he loudly hailed--"Ahoy there! This is the Pequod,
noooooo noooo nooo, no nooooo nooooo--"Nooo noooo! Nooo no noo Nooooo,

bound round the world! Tell them to address all future letters to the
noooo noooo noo noooo! Nooo nooo no noooooo noo nooooo noooooo no noo

Pacific ocean! and this time three years, if I am not at home, tell them
Noooooo noooo! noo nooo nooo noooo noooo, no N no noo no nooo, nooo nooo

to address them to--"
no noooooo nooo no--"




At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then,
No nooo nooooo noo noo noooo nooo nooooo noooooo, noo noooooooo, nooo,

in accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish,
no nooooooooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo, nooooo no noooo nooooooo nooo,

that for some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted
nooo noo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooooo no noo nooo, nooooo

away with what seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and
nooo nooo nooo nooooo nooooooooo nooo, noo nooooo nooooooooo nooo noo

aft with the stranger's flanks. Though in the course of his continual
noo nooo noo nooooooo'n nooooo. Nooooo no noo nooooo no noo noooooooo

voyagings Ahab must often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to
noooooooo Nooo nooo noooo nooooo nooo noooooo n noooooo noooo, noo, no

any monomaniac man, the veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.
noo nooooooooo noo, noo noooooo noooooo nooooooooooo noooo nooooooo.




"Swim away from me, do ye?" murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.
"Nooo nooo nooo no, no no?" nooooooo Nooo, nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo.

There seemed but little in the words, but the tone conveyed more of deep
Noooo nooooo noo nooooo no noo noooo, noo noo nooo nooooooo nooo no nooo

helpless sadness than the insane old man had ever before evinced. But
nooooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo noo noo noo nooo nooooo noooooo. Noo

turning to the steersman, who thus far had been holding the ship in the
noooooo no noo noooooooo, noo nooo noo noo nooo noooooo noo nooo no noo

wind to diminish her headway, he cried out in his old lion voice,--"Up
nooo no nooooooo noo noooooo, no noooo noo no noo noo nooo noooo,--"No

helm! Keep her off round the world!"
nooo! Nooo noo noo noooo noo noooo!"




Round the world! There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings;
Noooo noo noooo! Noooo no nooo no nooo noooo no noooooo noooo nooooooo;

but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct? Only through
noo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooooooooo noooooo? Nooo noooooo

numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those that
nooooooooo nooooo no noo nooo noooo nooooo no noooooo, noooo noooo nooo

we left behind secure, were all the time before us.
no nooo nooooo nooooo, nooo noo noo nooo nooooo no.




Were this world an endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for
Nooo nooo noooo no noooooo noooo, noo no noooooo nooooooo no noooo noo

ever reach new distances, and discover sights more sweet and strange
nooo noooo noo noooooooo, noo nooooooo nooooo nooo noooo noo noooooo

than any Cyclades or Islands of King Solomon, then there were promise
nooo noo Nooooooo no Noooooo no Nooo Noooooo, nooo noooo nooo noooooo

in the voyage. But in pursuit of those far mysteries we dream of, or in
no noo nooooo. Noo no noooooo no noooo noo noooooooo no noooo no, no no

tormented chase of that demon phantom that, some time or other, swims
noooooooo noooo no nooo noooo noooooo nooo, nooo nooo no noooo, noooo

before all human hearts; while chasing such over this round globe, they
nooooo noo noooo nooooo; noooo noooooo nooo nooo nooo noooo noooo, nooo

either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us whelmed.
nooooo nooo no no no nooooo noooo no nooooo noooo no noooooo.










CHAPTER 53. The Gam.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noo.







The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had
Noo nooooooooo nooooo noo Nooo noo noo no no noooo no noo nooooo no noo

spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened storms. But even had
nooooo noo nooo: noo nooo noo noo noooooooo nooooo. Noo nooo noo

this not been the case, he would not after all, perhaps, have boarded
nooo noo nooo noo nooo, no noooo noo noooo noo, noooooo, nooo noooooo

her--judging by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions--if so it
noo--noooooo no noo nooooooooo noooooo no noooooo noooooooo--no no no

had been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained a negative
noo nooo nooo, no noo noooooo no noooooo, no noo nooooooo n nooooooo

answer to the question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he
nooooo no noo nooooooo no noo. Noo, no no nooooooooo nooooo noo, no

cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain,
noooo noo no noooooo, nooo noo nooo noooooo, nooo noo nooooooo noooooo,

except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly
nooooo no noooo nooooooooo nooo no nooo noooooooooo no no noooooooooo

sought. But all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not
nooooo. Noo noo nooo noooo nooooo nooooooooooo noooooooo, nooo noo

something said here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when
noooooooo nooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo no noooooo-noooooo nooo

meeting each other in foreign seas, and especially on a common
noooooo nooo noooo no noooooo nooo, noo nooooooooo no n nooooo

cruising-ground.
nooooooo-nooooo.




If two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the
No noo noooooooo nooooooo noo Nooo Noooooo no Noo Nooo Noooo, no noo

equally desolate Salisbury Plain in England; if casually encountering
noooooo nooooooo Noooooooo Noooo no Noooooo; no nooooooo nooooooooooo

each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for the life of
nooo noooo no nooo nooooooooooo noooo, noooo noooo, noo noo nooo no

them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a moment
nooo, nooooo nooo noooo n nooooo nooooooooo; noo nooooooo noo n nooooo

to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while
no noooooooooo noo nooo; noo, noooooo, noooooo nooo noo n noooo

and resting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the
noo noooooo no noooooo: nooo, noo nooo nooo noooooo nooo nooo noo

illimitable Pine Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling
noooooooooo Nooo Noooooo noo Noooooooo Nooooo no noo noo, noo noooooo

vessels descrying each other at the ends of the earth--off lone
noooooo noooooooo nooo noooo no noo nooo no noo noooo--noo nooo

Fanning's Island, or the far away King's Mills; how much more natural,
Noooooo'n Nooooo, no noo noo nooo Nooo'n Noooo; noo nooo nooo noooooo,

I say, that under such circumstances these ships should not only
N noo, nooo noooo nooo noooooooooooo noooo noooo nooooo noo nooo

interchange hails, but come into still closer, more friendly and
noooooooooo noooo, noo nooo nooo noooo nooooo, nooo nooooooo noo

sociable contact. And especially would this seem to be a matter of
nooooooo noooooo. Noo nooooooooo noooo nooo nooo no no n nooooo no

course, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose captains,
nooooo, no noo nooo no noooooo noooo no noo noooooo, noo noooo nooooooo,

officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to each other;
nooooooo, noo noo n noo no noo noo noo nooooooooo noooo no nooo noooo;

and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk about.
noo nooooooooooo, nooo noo noooo no nooo nooooooo nooooo no nooo noooo.




For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters on
Noo noo nooo nooooo nooo, noo noooooo-noooooo, noooooo, noo noooooo no

board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a
noooo; no noo nooo, noo nooo no nooo no noo noo nooo nooo nooooo no n

date a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb-worn
nooo n nooo no noo noooo nooo noo nooo noo no noo noooooo noo noooo-nooo

files. And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would
noooo. Noo no nooooo noo nooo nooooooo, noo noooooo-noooo nooo noooo

receive the latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to
noooooo noo nooooo noooooo nooooooooooo nooo noo nooooooo-nooooo no

which she may be destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her. And
noooo noo noo no nooooooo, n noooo no noo nooooo nooooooooo no noo. Noo

in degree, all this will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing
no nooooo, noo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooooo noooooo noooooo nooooooo

each other's track on the cruising-ground itself, even though they
nooo noooo'n noooo no noo nooooooo-nooooo nooooo, nooo nooooo nooo

are equally long absent from home. For one of them may have received a
noo noooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo. Noo noo no nooo noo nooo nooooooo n

transfer of letters from some third, and now far remote vessel; and
nooooooo no noooooo nooo nooo noooo, noo noo noo nooooo nooooo; noo

some of those letters may be for the people of the ship she now meets.
nooo no noooo noooooo noo no noo noo nooooo no noo nooo noo noo noooo.

Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have an agreeable
Noooooo, nooo noooo nooooooo noo noooooo nooo, noo nooo no noooooooo

chat. For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of sailors,
nooo. Noo noo nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noo noo nooooooooo no noooooo,

but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a common
noo nooooooo nooo noo noo nooooooo nooooooooooooo noooooo nooo n nooooo

pursuit and mutually shared privations and perils.
noooooo noo nooooooo nooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo.




Nor would difference of country make any very essential difference;
Noo noooo nooooooooo no noooooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo nooooooooo;

that is, so long as both parties speak one language, as is the case
nooo no, no nooo no nooo noooooo noooo noo nooooooo, no no noo nooo

with Americans and English. Though, to be sure, from the small number of
nooo Noooooooo noo Noooooo. Nooooo, no no nooo, nooo noo noooo nooooo no

English whalers, such meetings do not very often occur, and when they
Noooooo noooooo, nooo nooooooo no noo nooo noooo noooo, noo nooo nooo

do occur there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them; for your
no noooo noooo no noo noo no no n nooo no noooooo noooooo nooo; noo nooo

Englishman is rather reserved, and your Yankee, he does not fancy that
Nooooooooo no nooooo nooooooo, noo nooo Nooooo, no nooo noo noooo nooo

sort of thing in anybody but himself. Besides, the English whalers
nooo no noooo no noooooo noo noooooo. Noooooo, noo Noooooo noooooo

sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over the American
noooooooo nooooo n nooo no nooooooooooo noooooooooo nooo noo Nooooooo

whalers; regarding the long, lean Nantucketer, with his nondescript
noooooo; noooooooo noo nooo, nooo Noooooooooo, nooo noo noooooooooo

provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant. But where this superiority
nooooooooooooo, no n nooo no noo-noooooo. Noo noooo nooo noooooooooo

in the English whalemen does really consist, it would be hard to say,
no noo Noooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo noooooo, no noooo no nooo no noo,

seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill more whales than
nooooo nooo noo Noooooo no noo noo, nooooooooooo, nooo nooo nooooo nooo

all the English, collectively, in ten years. But this is a harmless
noo noo Noooooo, nooooooooooo, no noo noooo. Noo nooo no n nooooooo

little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the Nantucketer does
nooooo nooooo no noo Noooooo noooo-noooooo, noooo noo Noooooooooo nooo

not take much to heart; probably, because he knows that he has a few
noo nooo nooo no noooo; nooooooo, noooooo no noooo nooo no noo n noo

foibles himself.
noooooo noooooo.




So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the sea, the
No, nooo, no noo nooo no noo noooo nooooooooo noooooo noo noo, noo

whalers have most reason to be sociable--and they are so. Whereas, some
noooooo nooo nooo nooooo no no nooooooo--noo nooo noo no. Noooooo, nooo

merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
nooooooo noooo nooooooo nooo noooo'n nooo no noo noo-Nooooooo, nooo

oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition,
nooooooooo nooo no noooooo no nooo no n nooooo nooo no noooooooooo,

mutually cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies in
nooooooo noooooo nooo noooo no noo nooo nooo, nooo n noooo no noooooo no

Broadway; and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism upon
Nooooooo; noo noo noo nooo noooooooo, noooooo, no noooooo noooooooo nooo

each other's rig. As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at sea,
nooo noooo'n noo. No noo Noo-no-Noo, nooo nooo nooooo no nooo no noo,

they first go through such a string of silly bowings and scrapings, such
nooo noooo no noooooo nooo n nooooo no noooo noooooo noo noooooooo, nooo

a ducking of ensigns, that there does not seem to be much right-down
n noooooo no noooooo, nooo noooo nooo noo nooo no no nooo noooo-nooo

hearty good-will and brotherly love about it at all. As touching
nooooo nooo-nooo noo noooooooo nooo noooo no no noo. No nooooooo

Slave-ships meeting, why, they are in such a prodigious hurry, they run
Noooo-noooo noooooo, noo, nooo noo no nooo n nooooooooo noooo, nooo noo

away from each other as soon as possible. And as for Pirates, when they
nooo nooo nooo noooo no nooo no nooooooo. Noo no noo Noooooo, nooo nooo

chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the first hail is--"How many
nooooo no noooo nooo noooo'n noooo-noooo, noo noooo nooo no--"Noo nooo

skulls?"--the same way that whalers hail--"How many barrels?" And that
nooooo?"--noo nooo noo nooo noooooo nooo--"Noo nooo noooooo?" Noo nooo

question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart, for they are
nooooooo nooo nooooooo, noooooo noooooooooo noooo noooo, noo nooo noo

infernal villains on both sides, and don't like to see overmuch of each
nooooooo nooooooo no nooo noooo, noo noo'n nooo no noo nooooooo no nooo

other's villanous likenesses.
noooo'n noooooooo nooooooooo.




But look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable,
Noo nooo no noo noooo, nooooo, nooooooooooooo, nooooooooo, nooooooo,

free-and-easy whaler! What does the whaler do when she meets another
nooo-noo-nooo nooooo! Nooo nooo noo nooooo no nooo noo noooo noooooo

whaler in any sort of decent weather? She has a "GAM," a thing so
nooooo no noo nooo no nooooo noooooo? Noo noo n "NOO," n noooo no

utterly unknown to all other ships that they never heard of the name
noooooo noooooo no noo noooo noooo nooo nooo noooo noooo no noo nooo

even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only grin at it, and
nooo; noo no no nooooo nooo nooooo nooo no no, nooo nooo nooo no no, noo

repeat gamesome stuff about "spouters" and "blubber-boilers," and such
nooooo nooooooo noooo noooo "nooooooo" noo "noooooo-noooooo," noo nooo

like pretty exclamations. Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and also
nooo nooooo nooooooooooo. Noo no no nooo noo Nooooooo-nooooo, noo nooo

all Pirates and Man-of-War's men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such
noo Noooooo noo Noo-no-Noo'n noo, noo Noooo-nooo noooooo, noooooo nooo

a scornful feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it would be
n nooooooo noooooo noooooo Noooo-noooo; nooo no n nooooooo no noooo no

hard to answer. Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to
nooo no nooooo. Noooooo, no noo nooo no noooooo, noo, N nooooo nooo no

know whether that profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about
nooo noooooo nooo nooooooooo no nooooo noo noo nooooooo noooo noooo

it. It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the
no. No noooooooo nooo no nooooooo noooooooo, nooooo; noo nooo no noo

gallows. And besides, when a man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has
noooooo. Noo noooooo, nooo n noo no nooooooo no nooo noo noooooo, no noo

no proper foundation for his superior altitude. Hence, I conclude,
no nooooo nooooooooo noo noo nooooooo nooooooo. Noooo, N nooooooo,

that in boasting himself to be high lifted above a whaleman, in that
nooo no nooooooo noooooo no no nooo nooooo noooo n nooooooo, no nooo

assertion the pirate has no solid basis to stand on.
noooooooo noo nooooo noo no noooo noooo no noooo no.




But what is a GAM? You might wear out your index-finger running up and
Noo nooo no n NOO? Noo noooo nooo noo nooo noooo-nooooo noooooo no noo

down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word. Dr. Johnson
nooo noo noooooo no nooooooooooo, noo noooo nooo noo nooo. No. Noooooo

never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster's ark does not hold it.
noooo nooooooo no nooo noooooooo; Nooo Noooooo'n noo nooo noo nooo no.

Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in
Nooooooooooo, nooo nooo nooooooooo nooo noo noo noo nooo noooo nooo no

constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees. Certainly,
nooooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo nooooooo nooo nooo Noooooo. Noooooooo,

it needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon. With
no noooo n nooooooooo, noo nooooo no nooooooooooo nooo noo Noooooo. Nooo

that view, let me learnedly define it.
nooo nooo, noo no noooooooo nooooo no.




GAM. NOUN--A SOCIAL MEETING OF TWO (OR MORE) WHALESHIPS, GENERALLY ON A
NOO. NOOO--N NOOOOO NOOOOOO NO NOO (NO NOOO) NOOOOOOOOO, NOOOOOOOO NO N

CRUISING-GROUND; WHEN, AFTER EXCHANGING HAILS, THEY EXCHANGE VISITS BY
NOOOOOOO-NOOOOO; NOOO, NOOOO NOOOOOOOOO NOOOO, NOOO NOOOOOOO NOOOOO NO

BOATS' CREWS; THE TWO CAPTAINS REMAINING, FOR THE TIME, ON BOARD OF ONE
NOOOO' NOOOO; NOO NOO NOOOOOOO NOOOOOOOO, NOO NOO NOOO, NO NOOOO NO NOO

SHIP, AND THE TWO CHIEF MATES ON THE OTHER.
NOOO, NOO NOO NOO NOOOO NOOOO NO NOO NOOOO.




There is another little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten
Noooo no noooooo nooooo nooo noooo Noooooo noooo nooo noo no noooooooo

here. All professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so
nooo. Noo noooooooooo nooo noooo noo nooooo noooooooooooo no nooooo; no

has the whale fishery. In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when
noo noo noooo noooooo. No n nooooo, noo-no-noo, no noooo nooo, nooo

the captain is rowed anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern
noo noooooo no noooo nooooooo no noo nooo, no nooooo nooo no noo noooo

sheets on a comfortable, sometimes cushioned seat there, and often
nooooo no n noooooooooo, noooooooo noooooooo nooo noooo, noo noooo

steers himself with a pretty little milliner's tiller decorated with
nooooo noooooo nooo n nooooo nooooo nooooooo'n nooooo noooooooo nooo

gay cords and ribbons. But the whale-boat has no seat astern, no sofa of
noo noooo noo noooooo. Noo noo noooo-nooo noo no nooo nooooo, no nooo no

that sort whatever, and no tiller at all. High times indeed, if whaling
nooo nooo nooooooo, noo no nooooo no noo. Nooo noooo nooooo, no noooooo

captains were wheeled about the water on castors like gouty old aldermen
nooooooo nooo noooooo noooo noo noooo no noooooo nooo noooo noo nooooooo

in patent chairs. And as for a tiller, the whale-boat never admits of
no nooooo nooooo. Noo no noo n nooooo, noo noooo-nooo noooo nooooo no

any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a complete boat's crew
noo nooo nooooooooo; noo noooooooo no no noooooo n nooooooo nooo'n nooo

must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or harpooneer is of
nooo noooo noo nooo, noo noooo no noo nooo noooooo no nooooooooo no no

the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the occasion, and
noo nooooo, nooo noooooooooo no noo noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo, noo

the captain, having no place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit
noo noooooo, nooooo no noooo no noo no, no nooooo noo no noo noooo

all standing like a pine tree. And often you will notice that being
noo nooooooo nooo n nooo nooo. Noo noooo noo nooo nooooo nooo noooo

conscious of the eyes of the whole visible world resting on him from
noooooooo no noo nooo no noo noooo noooooo noooo noooooo no noo nooo

the sides of the two ships, this standing captain is all alive to the
noo noooo no noo noo noooo, nooo nooooooo noooooo no noo noooo no noo

importance of sustaining his dignity by maintaining his legs. Nor is
nooooooooo no nooooooooo noo noooooo no noooooooooo noo nooo. Noo no

this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projecting
nooo noo nooo nooo nooooo; noo no noo nooo no noo noooooo nooooooooo

steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back, the
nooooooo noo noooooo noo noo noo nooo no noo noooo no noo nooo, noo

after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front. He is thus
noooo-noo noooooooooooo no noooooo noo noooo no noooo. No no nooo

completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
nooooooooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooo, noo noo nooo nooooo noooooo

sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent
nooooooo no nooooooo nooo no noo noooooooo nooo; noo n nooooo, noooooo

pitch of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of
noooo no noo nooo nooo noooo no noo no nooooo noo, noooooo nooooo no

foundation is nothing without corresponding breadth. Merely make a
nooooooooo no noooooo noooooo noooooooooooo noooooo. Nooooo nooo n

spread angle of two poles, and you cannot stand them up. Then, again,
nooooo noooo no noo noooo, noo noo nooooo noooo nooo no. Nooo, noooo,

it would never do in plain sight of the world's riveted eyes, it would
no noooo noooo no no noooo noooo no noo noooo'n noooooo nooo, no noooo

never do, I say, for this straddling captain to be seen steadying
noooo no, N noo, noo nooo nooooooooo noooooo no no nooo noooooooo

himself the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with
noooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo no nooooooo nooo no nooooooo nooo

his hands; indeed, as token of his entire, buoyant self-command, he
noo noooo; nooooo, no noooo no noo nooooo, noooooo nooo-noooooo, no

generally carries his hands in his trowsers' pockets; but perhaps being
noooooooo noooooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo' noooooo; noo noooooo noooo

generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them there for ballast.
noooooooo nooo noooo, noooo noooo, no noooooo nooo noooo noo noooooo.

Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well authenticated ones too,
Nooooooooooo noooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo, nooo noooooooooooo nooo noo,

where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment or
noooo noo noooooo noo nooo noooo noo no nooooooooo nooooooo nooooo no

two, in a sudden squall say--to seize hold of the nearest oarsman's
noo, no n nooooo nooooo noo--no noooo nooo no noo noooooo noooooo'n

hair, and hold on there like grim death.
nooo, noo nooo no noooo nooo nooo noooo.










CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho's Story.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooo-No'n Noooo.







(AS TOLD AT THE GOLDEN INN)
(NO NOOO NO NOO NOOOOO NOO)







The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is
Noo Nooo no Nooo Nooo, noo noo noo nooooo nooooo noooo noooo noooo, no

much like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet
nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo noooooo no n noooo noooooo, noooo noo nooo

more travellers than in any other part.
nooo nooooooooo nooo no noo noooo nooo.




It was not very long after speaking the Goney that another
No noo noo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo noo Noooo nooo noooooo

homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho,* was encountered. She was manned
nooooooo-noooo nooooooo, noo Nooo-No,* noo noooooooooo. Noo noo nooooo

almost wholly by Polynesians. In the short gam that ensued she gave
nooooo nooooo no Noooooooooo. No noo noooo noo nooo nooooo noo nooo

us strong news of Moby Dick. To some the general interest in the White
no nooooo nooo no Nooo Nooo. No nooo noo noooooo nooooooo no noo Noooo

Whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho's
Noooo noo noo nooooo nooooooooo no n nooooooooooo no noo Nooo-No'n

story, which seemed obscurely to involve with the whale a certain
noooo, noooo nooooo noooooooo no noooooo nooo noo noooo n noooooo

wondrous, inverted visitation of one of those so called judgments of God
nooooooo, nooooooo nooooooooo no noo no noooo no nooooo noooooooo no Noo

which at times are said to overtake some men. This latter circumstance,
noooo no noooo noo nooo no nooooooo nooo noo. Nooo nooooo nooooooooooo,

with its own particular accompaniments, forming what may be called the
nooo noo noo nooooooooo nooooooooooooo, noooooo nooo noo no nooooo noo

secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never reached the ears
nooooo nooo no noo noooooo noooo no no nooooooo, noooo noooooo noo nooo

of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret part of the story was
no Noooooo Nooo no noo noooo. Noo nooo nooooo nooo no noo noooo noo

unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself. It was the private
noooooo no noo noooooo no noo Nooo-No noooooo. No noo noo noooooo

property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of whom, it
nooooooo no noooo noooooooooo noooo nooooo no nooo nooo, noo no nooo, no

seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secrecy,
noooo, nooooooooooo no no Nooooooo nooo Nooooo noooooooooo no noooooo,

but the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed
noo noo noooooooo noooo Nooooooo noooooo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo

so much of it in that way, that when he was wakened he could not well
no nooo no no no nooo noo, nooo nooo no noo noooooo no noooo noo nooo

withhold the rest. Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing
nooooooo noo nooo. Nooooooooooo, no nooooo no noooooooo noo nooo noooo

have on those seamen in the Pequod who came to the full knowledge of
nooo no noooo nooooo no noo Nooooo noo nooo no noo nooo noooooooo no

it, and by such a strange delicacy, to call it so, were they governed in
no, noo no nooo n noooooo nooooooo, no nooo no no, nooo nooo nooooooo no

this matter, that they kept the secret among themselves so that it never
nooo nooooo, nooo nooo nooo noo nooooo noooo nooooooooo no nooo no noooo

transpired abaft the Pequod's main-mast. Interweaving in its proper
nooooooooo noooo noo Nooooo'n nooo-nooo. Nooooooooooo no noo nooooo

place this darker thread with the story as publicly narrated on the
noooo nooo nooooo nooooo nooo noo noooo no nooooooo nooooooo no noo

ship, the whole of this strange affair I now proceed to put on lasting
nooo, noo noooo no nooo noooooo nooooo N noo noooooo no noo no noooooo

record.
nooooo.







*The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head,
*Noo noooooo noooo-noo nooo noooo nooooooo n noooo nooo noo nooo-nooo,

still used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.
noooo nooo no nooooooo no noooooo noo nooooo Nooooooooo nooooooo.







For my humor's sake, I shall preserve the style in which I once narrated
Noo no noooo'n nooo, N noooo nooooooo noo noooo no noooo N nooo nooooooo

it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish friends, one saint's eve,
no no Nooo, no n nooooooo nooooo no no Noooooo noooooo, noo noooo'n noo,

smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the Golden Inn. Of those
noooooo nooo noo noooo-nooo noooo nooooo no noo Nooooo Noo. No noooo

fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, were on the closer
nooo noooooooo, noo noooo Nooo, Noooo noo Noooooooo, nooo no noo nooooo

terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they occasionally
noooo nooo no; noo noooo noo noooooooooo noooooooo nooo nooooooooooo

put, and which are duly answered at the time.
noo, noo noooo noo nooo nooooooo no noo nooo.




"Some two years prior to my first learning the events which I am about
"Nooo noo noooo noooo no no noooo nooooooo noo nooooo noooo N no noooo

rehearsing to you, gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm Whaler of Nantucket,
nooooooooo no noo, noooooooo, noo Nooo-No, Noooo Nooooo no Noooooooo,

was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days' sail eastward
noo nooooooo no nooo Noooooo nooo, noo nooo nooo nooo' nooo nooooooo

from the eaves of this good Golden Inn. She was somewhere to the
nooo noo noooo no nooo nooo Nooooo Noo. Noo noo noooooooo no noo

northward of the Line. One morning upon handling the pumps, according to
noooooooo no noo Nooo. Noo noooooo nooo nooooooo noo noooo, noooooooo no

daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than
noooo noooo, no noo nooooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo no noo nooo nooo

common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. But the
nooooo. Nooo nooooooo n noooo-nooo noo noooooo noo, noooooooo. Noo noo

captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good luck
noooooo, nooooo nooo noooooo nooooo noo noooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo

awaited him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to quit
noooooo noo no noooo noooooooo; noo noooooooo noooo nooo nooooo no nooo

them, and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, though,
nooo, noo noo nooo noo noooo nooo nooooooooo no noo noooooooo, nooooo,

indeed, they could not find it after searching the hold as low down
nooooo, nooo noooo noo nooo no noooo noooooooo noo nooo no noo nooo

as was possible in rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her
no noo nooooooo no nooooo noooo noooooo, noo nooo noooo noooooooo noo

cruisings, the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals;
noooooooo, noo nooooooo noooooo no noo noooo no nooo noo nooo noooooooo;

but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only was the leak yet
noo no nooo nooo nooo; nooo nooo nooo no, noo noo nooo noo noo nooo noo

undiscovered, but it sensibly increased. So much so, that now taking
nooooooooooo, noo no nooooooo noooooooo. No nooo no, nooo noo nooooo

some alarm, the captain, making all sail, stood away for the nearest
nooo noooo, noo noooooo, nooooo noo nooo, noooo nooo noo noo noooooo

harbor among the islands, there to have his hull hove out and repaired.
nooooo noooo noo noooooo, noooo no nooo noo nooo nooo noo noo nooooooo.




"Though no small passage was before her, yet, if the commonest chance
"Nooooo no noooo noooooo noo nooooo noo, noo, no noo noooooooo nooooo

favoured, he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by the way,
nooooooo, no noo noo no noo nooo nooo noo nooo noooo noooooo no noo noo,

because his pumps were of the best, and being periodically relieved at
noooooo noo noooo nooo no noo nooo, noo noooo nooooooooooo nooooooo no

them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily keep the ship free;
nooo, noooo noo-noo-nooooo noo no noo noooo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooo;

never mind if the leak should double on her. In truth, well nigh the
noooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo nooooo no noo. No noooo, nooo nooo noo

whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes, the
noooo no nooo noooooo noooo nooooooo no nooo nooooooooo noooooo, noo

Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port
Nooo-No noo noo noo noooooooo noooooo no noooooo nooooo no noo nooo

without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the
noooooo noo nooooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo, noo no noo nooo noo noo

brutal overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly
nooooo noooooooooo no Nooooo, noo nooo, n Nooooooooo, noo noo nooooooo

provoked vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.
nooooooo noooooooo no Noooooooo, n Noooooo noo noooooooo nooo Noooooo.




"'Lakeman!--Buffalo! Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?'
"'Noooooo!--Noooooo! Nooo, nooo no n Noooooo, noo noooo no Noooooo?'

said Don Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.
nooo Noo Noooooooo, nooooo no noo nooooooo noo no noooo.




"On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your
"No noo noooooo noooo no noo Nooo Nooo, Noo; noo--N noooo nooo

courtesy--may be, you shall soon hear further of all that. Now,
nooooooo--noo no, noo noooo nooo nooo noooooo no noo nooo. Noo,

gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships, well-nigh as
noooooooo, no nooooo-nooo noooo noo noooo-nooooo noooo, nooo-nooo no

large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far
noooo noo noooo no noo nooo nooo nooooo noo no nooo noo Nooooo no noo

Manilla; this Lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
Noooooo; nooo Noooooo, no noo nooo-nooooo noooo no noo Noooooo, noo noo

been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly
nooo nooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo noooooooooo noooooooooo noooooooo

connected with the open ocean. For in their interflowing aggregate,
noooooooo nooo noo nooo noooo. Noo no noooo nooooooooooo noooooooo,

those grand fresh-water seas of ours,--Erie, and Ontario, and Huron, and
noooo noooo noooo-noooo nooo no nooo,--Nooo, noo Noooooo, noo Noooo, noo

Superior, and Michigan,--possess an ocean-like expansiveness, with many
Nooooooo, noo Nooooooo,--noooooo no noooo-nooo noooooooooooo, nooo nooo

of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its rimmed varieties of
no noo noooo'n noooooo nooooo; nooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooooo no

races and of climes. They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles,
noooo noo no nooooo. Nooo noooooo noooo noooooooooooo no nooooooo noooo,

even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored by two great
nooo no noo Nooooooooo nooooo no; no noooo nooo, noo nooooo no noo noooo

contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long maritime
noooooooooo noooooo, no noo Nooooooo no; nooo noooooo nooo nooooooo

approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East, dotted
nooooooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo Nooo, nooooo

all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by batteries,
noo noooo noooo noooo; nooo noo noooo noo noooooo nooo no noooooooo,

and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the
noo no noo nooo-nooo nooooo nooo no noooo Nooooooo; nooo nooo noooo noo

fleet thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they yield their
noooo noooooooooo no noooo noooooooo; no noooooooo, nooo noooo noooo

beaches to wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out
noooooo no nooo nooooooooo, noooo noo noooooo noooo noooo nooo noo

their peltry wigwams; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient
noooo nooooo noooooo; noo noooooo noo noooooo noo noooooo no noooooo

and unentered forests, where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines
noo noooooooo noooooo, noooo noo noooo noooo noooo nooo noooooo noooo

of kings in Gothic genealogies; those same woods harboring wild Afric
no noooo no Nooooo noooooooooo; noooo nooo noooo noooooooo nooo Noooo

beasts of prey, and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes
nooooo no nooo, noo nooooo noooooooo noooo nooooooo nooo nooo noooo

to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and
no Nooooo Nooooooo; nooo nooooo noo noooo nooooooo no Noooooo noo

Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float alike the
Noooooooo, no nooo no Noooooooo nooooooo; nooo noooo noooo noo

full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the steamer,
nooo-nooooo nooooooo nooo, noo noooo noooooo no noo Noooo, noo noooooo,

and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as
noo noo noooo noooo; nooo noo noooo no Nooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo no

direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks are,
noooooo no noo nooo nooo noo nooooo nooo; nooo nooo nooo nooooooooo noo,

for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many
noo noo no noooo no nooo, noooooo nooooo, nooo nooo noooooo nooo nooo

a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew. Thus, gentlemen, though
n nooooooo nooo nooo noo noo noooooooo nooo. Nooo, noooooooo, nooooo

an inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured;
no nooooooo, Noooooooo noo nooo-noooo nooo, noo nooo-noooo nooooooo;

as much of an audacious mariner as any. And for Radney, though in his
no nooo no no noooooooo noooooo no noo. Noo noo Nooooo, nooooo no noo

infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse
noooooo no noo nooo nooo noo nooo no noo nooo Noooooooo noooo, no noooo

at his maternal sea; though in after life he had long followed our
no noo nooooooo noo; nooooo no noooo nooo no noo nooo nooooooo noo

austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific; yet was he quite as
noooooo Nooooooo noo nooo noooooooooooo Noooooo; noo noo no noooo no

vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh
nooooooo noo nooo no nooooo noooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo, noooo

from the latitudes of buck-horn handled bowie-knives. Yet was this
nooo noo noooooooo no nooo-nooo noooooo noooo-nooooo. Noo noo nooo

Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and this Lakeman, a
Noooooooooo n noo nooo nooo nooo-noooooo nooooo; noo nooo Noooooo, n

mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, might yet by inflexible
noooooo, noo nooooo n nooo no noooo nooooo, noooo noo no nooooooooo

firmness, only tempered by that common decency of human recognition
nooooooo, nooo nooooooo no nooo nooooo noooooo no noooo noooooooooo

which is the meanest slave's right; thus treated, this Steelkilt had
noooo no noo noooooo noooo'n noooo; nooo noooooo, nooo Noooooooo noo

long been retained harmless and docile. At all events, he had proved
nooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooo. No noo nooooo, no noo nooooo

so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and Steelkilt--but,
no nooo noo; noo Nooooo noo nooooo noo nooo noo, noo Noooooooo--noo,

gentlemen, you shall hear.
noooooooo, noo noooo nooo.




"It was not more than a day or two at the furthest after pointing
"No noo noo nooo nooo n noo no noo no noo nooooooo noooo nooooooo

her prow for her island haven, that the Town-Ho's leak seemed again
noo nooo noo noo nooooo noooo, nooo noo Nooo-No'n nooo nooooo noooo

increasing, but only so as to require an hour or more at the pumps
nooooooooo, noo nooo no no no noooooo no nooo no nooo no noo noooo

every day. You must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our
noooo noo. Noo nooo nooo nooo no n noooooo noo noooooooo noooo nooo noo

Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping their whole
Nooooooo, noo noooooo, nooo nooooooo noooo nooooo no noooooo noooo noooo

way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the officer of
noo nooooo no; nooooo no n noooo, nooooo noooo, nooooo noo noooooo no

the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the probability
noo nooo nooooo no nooooo noo nooo no nooo noooooo, noo noooooooooo

would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it, on
noooo no nooo no noo noo noooooooo noooo noooo noooo nooooooo no, no

account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom. Nor in the
noooooo no noo noooo nooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo. Noo no noo

solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward, gentlemen, is it
nooooooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooo noo no noo nooooooo, noooooooo, no no

altogether unusual for ships to keep clanging at their pump-handles in
nooooooooo noooooo noo noooo no nooo nooooooo no noooo nooo-noooooo no

full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie
nooo nooooo nooo noo n nooooo no nooooooooooo nooooo; nooo no, no no noo

along a tolerably accessible coast, or if any other reasonable retreat
noooo n noooooooo nooooooooo noooo, no no noo noooo nooooooooo noooooo

is afforded them. It is only when a leaky vessel is in some very out of
no nooooooo nooo. No no nooo nooo n noooo nooooo no no nooo nooo noo no

the way part of those waters, some really landless latitude, that her
noo noo nooo no noooo nooooo, nooo nooooo nooooooo nooooooo, nooo noo

captain begins to feel a little anxious.
noooooo nooooo no nooo n nooooo noooooo.




"Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was found
"Nooo nooo noo noo no nooo nooo noo Nooo-No; no nooo noo nooo noo noooo

gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by
noooooo nooo nooo, noooo noo no noooo nooo noooo noooooo nooooooooo no

several of her company; especially by Radney the mate. He commanded
noooooo no noo noooooo; nooooooooo no Nooooo noo nooo. No noooooooo

the upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way
noo noooo noooo no no nooo noooooo, noooooo nooo nooo, noo noooo noo

expanded to the breeze. Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a
nooooooo no noo nooooo. Noo nooo Nooooo, N noooooo, noo no nooooo no n

coward, and as little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness
nooooo, noo no nooooo nooooooo no noo nooo no noooooo nooooooooooooooo

touching his own person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or
nooooooo noo noo nooooo no noo nooooooo, nooooooooo nooooooo no nooo no

on sea that you can conveniently imagine, gentlemen. Therefore when
no noo nooo noo noo nooooooooooo noooooo, noooooooo. Noooooooo nooo

he betrayed this solicitude about the safety of the ship, some of the
no nooooooo nooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooooo no noo nooo, nooo no noo

seamen declared that it was only on account of his being a part owner in
nooooo nooooooo nooo no noo nooo no noooooo no noo noooo n nooo noooo no

her. So when they were working that evening at the pumps, there was on
noo. No nooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo noooooo no noo noooo, noooo noo no

this head no small gamesomeness slily going on among them, as they stood
nooo nooo no noooo nooooooooooo noooo noooo no noooo nooo, no nooo noooo

with their feet continually overflowed by the rippling clear water;
nooo noooo nooo noooooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooooo noooo noooo;

clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen--that bubbling from the pumps
noooo no noo nooooooo nooooo, noooooooo--nooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo

ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the lee
noo nooooo noo nooo, noo nooooo nooooo noo no nooooo nooooo no noo noo

scupper-holes.
noooooo-noooo.




"Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this conventional
"Noo, no noo nooo nooo, no no noo nooooo noo nooo no nooo nooooooooooo

world of ours--watery or otherwise; that when a person placed in command
noooo no nooo--nooooo no noooooooo; nooo nooo n nooooo nooooo no noooooo

over his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his
nooo noo nooooo-noo noooo noo no nooo no no nooo noooooooooooo noo

superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
nooooooo no noooooo noooo no noooooo, noooooooooo noooooo nooo noo no

conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a
noooooooo no noooooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooooo; noo no no nooo n

chance he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern's tower, and
nooooo no nooo nooo nooo noo noooooooo nooo noooooooo'n noooo, noo

make a little heap of dust of it. Be this conceit of mine as it may,
nooo n nooooo nooo no nooo no no. No nooo noooooo no nooo no no noo,

gentlemen, at all events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a
noooooooo, no noo nooooo Noooooooo noo n nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo n

head like a Roman, and a flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings
nooo nooo n Noooo, noo n noooooo nooooo noooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooooo

of your last viceroy's snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and
no nooo nooo noooooo'n nooooooo noooooo; noo n noooo, noo n noooo, noo

a soul in him, gentlemen, which had made Steelkilt Charlemagne, had he
n nooo no noo, noooooooo, noooo noo nooo Noooooooo Noooooooooo, noo no

been born son to Charlemagne's father. But Radney, the mate, was ugly
nooo nooo noo no Noooooooooo'n nooooo. Noo Nooooo, noo nooo, noo nooo

as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn, as malicious. He did not love
no n nooo; noo no noooo, no nooooooo, no noooooooo. No noo noo nooo

Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.
Noooooooo, noo Noooooooo nooo no.




"Espying the mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the
"Noooooo noo nooo noooooo nooo no no noo noooooo no noo nooo nooo noo

rest, the Lakeman affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with
nooo, noo Noooooo nooooooo noo no nooooo noo, noo nooooo, nooo no nooo

his gay banterings.
noo noo nooooooooo.




"'Aye, aye, my merry lads, it's a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, one
"'Noo, noo, no noooo nooo, no'n n nooooo nooo nooo; nooo n nooooooo, noo

of ye, and let's have a taste. By the Lord, it's worth bottling! I tell
no no, noo noo'n nooo n noooo. No noo Nooo, no'n noooo nooooooo! N nooo

ye what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it! he had best cut away
no nooo, noo, noo Noo'n nooooooooo nooo no noo no! no noo nooo noo nooo

his part of the hull and tow it home. The fact is, boys, that sword-fish
noo nooo no noo nooo noo noo no nooo. Noo nooo no, nooo, nooo noooo-nooo

only began the job; he's come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters,
nooo noooo noo noo; no'n nooo nooo noooo nooo n nooo no nooo-nooooooooo,

saw-fish, and file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of 'em
noo-nooo, noo nooo-nooo, noo nooo noo; noo noo noooo noooo no 'no

are now hard at work cutting and slashing at the bottom; making
noo noo nooo no nooo noooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooo; nooooo

improvements, I suppose. If old Rad were here now, I'd tell him to jump
nooooooooooo, N noooooo. No noo Noo nooo nooo noo, N'n nooo noo no nooo

overboard and scatter 'em. They're playing the devil with his estate, I
noooooooo noo noooooo 'no. Nooo'no noooooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooo, N

can tell him. But he's a simple old soul,--Rad, and a beauty too. Boys,
noo nooo noo. Noo no'n n nooooo noo nooo,--Noo, noo n nooooo noo. Nooo,

they say the rest of his property is invested in looking-glasses. I
nooo noo noo nooo no noo nooooooo no nooooooo no noooooo-noooooo. N

wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the model of his nose.'
nooooo no no'n nooo n nooo noooo nooo no noo noooo no noo nooo.'




"'Damn your eyes! what's that pump stopping for?' roared Radney,
"'Nooo nooo nooo! nooo'n nooo nooo nooooooo noo?' nooooo Nooooo,

pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk. 'Thunder away at it!'
nooooooooo noo no nooo noooo noo noooooo' nooo. 'Noooooo nooo no no!'




"'Aye, aye, sir,' said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket. 'Lively, boys,
"'Noo, noo, noo,' nooo Noooooooo, noooo no n noooooo. 'Nooooo, nooo,

lively, now!' And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines;
nooooo, noo!' Noo nooo nooo noo nooo noooooo nooo noooo nooo-noooooo;

the men tossed their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping
noo noo nooooo noooo nooo noo no no, noo noo nooo nooo nooooooo noooooo

of the lungs was heard which denotes the fullest tension of life's
no noo noooo noo noooo noooo noooooo noo noooooo noooooo no nooo'n

utmost energies.
nooooo nooooooo.




"Quitting the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went
"Nooooooo noo nooo no nooo, nooo noo nooo no noo nooo, noo Noooooo nooo

forward all panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face
noooooo noo noooooo, noo noo noooooo nooo no noo nooooooo; noo nooo

fiery red, his eyes bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his
noooo noo, noo nooo noooooooo, noo nooooo noo noooooo noooo nooo noo

brow. Now what cozening fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney
nooo. Noo nooo nooooooo noooo no noo, noooooooo, nooo noooooooo Nooooo

to meddle with such a man in that corporeally exasperated state, I know
no nooooo nooo nooo n noo no nooo noooooooooo noooooooooo noooo, N nooo

not; but so it happened. Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate
noo; noo no no nooooooo. Noooooooooo nooooooo noooo noo nooo, noo nooo

commanded him to get a broom and sweep down the planks, and also a
noooooooo noo no noo n noooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooo, noo nooo n

shovel, and remove some offensive matters consequent upon allowing a pig
nooooo, noo nooooo nooo noooooooo noooooo nooooooooo nooo nooooooo n noo

to run at large.
no noo no noooo.




"Now, gentlemen, sweeping a ship's deck at sea is a piece of household
"Noo, noooooooo, nooooooo n nooo'n nooo no noo no n noooo no noooooooo

work which in all times but raging gales is regularly attended to every
nooo noooo no noo noooo noo nooooo noooo no noooooooo nooooooo no noooo

evening; it has been known to be done in the case of ships actually
noooooo; no noo nooo noooo no no nooo no noo nooo no noooo nooooooo

foundering at the time. Such, gentlemen, is the inflexibility of
nooooooooo no noo nooo. Nooo, noooooooo, no noo noooooooooooo no

sea-usages and the instinctive love of neatness in seamen; some of whom
noo-nooooo noo noo noooooooooo nooo no nooooooo no nooooo; nooo no nooo

would not willingly drown without first washing their faces. But in all
noooo noo noooooooo noooo noooooo noooo noooooo noooo noooo. Noo no noo

vessels this broom business is the prescriptive province of the boys,
noooooo nooo noooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooooo nooooooo no noo nooo,

if boys there be aboard. Besides, it was the stronger men in the Town-Ho
no nooo noooo no nooooo. Noooooo, no noo noo nooooooo noo no noo Nooo-No

that had been divided into gangs, taking turns at the pumps; and being
nooo noo nooo noooooo nooo noooo, nooooo noooo no noo noooo; noo noooo

the most athletic seaman of them all, Steelkilt had been regularly
noo nooo nooooooo nooooo no nooo noo, Noooooooo noo nooo noooooooo

assigned captain of one of the gangs; consequently he should have
nooooooo noooooo no noo no noo noooo; nooooooooooo no nooooo nooo

been freed from any trivial business not connected with truly nautical
nooo noooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooo noo noooooooo nooo noooo nooooooo

duties, such being the case with his comrades. I mention all these
nooooo, nooo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo. N noooooo noo noooo

particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood
noooooooooo no nooo noo noo nooooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo noooo

between the two men.
noooooo noo noo noo.




"But there was more than this: the order about the shovel was almost as
"Noo noooo noo nooo nooo nooo: noo noooo noooo noo nooooo noo nooooo no

plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though Radney had spat
noooooo noooo no noooo noo nooooo Noooooooo, no nooooo Nooooo noo nooo

in his face. Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
no noo nooo. Noo noo noo noo nooo nooooo no n noooo-nooo nooo

understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
nooooooooo nooo; noo noo nooo noo noooooooo nooo nooo, noo Noooooo noooo

comprehended when the mate uttered his command. But as he sat still for
nooooooooooo nooo noo nooo noooooo noo noooooo. Noo no no noo noooo noo

a moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate's malignant eye and
n nooooo, noo no no noooooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo'n noooooooo noo noo

perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match
noooooooo noo nooooo no nooooo-noooo nooooo no no noo noo noo nooo-noooo

silently burning along towards them; as he instinctively saw all
nooooooo noooooo noooo noooooo nooo; no no noooooooooooo noo noo

this, that strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper
nooo, nooo noooooo noooooooooo noo noooooooooooo no nooo no noo nooooo

passionateness in any already ireful being--a repugnance most felt, when
nooooooooooooo no noo noooooo nooooo noooo--n nooooooooo nooo nooo, nooo

felt at all, by really valiant men even when aggrieved--this nameless
nooo no noo, no nooooo noooooo noo nooo nooo noooooooo--nooo nooooooo

phantom feeling, gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.
noooooo noooooo, noooooooo, noooo nooo Noooooooo.




"Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a little broken by the bodily
"Noooooooo, no noo nooooooo nooo, nooo n nooooo nooooo no noo nooooo

exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him saying that sweeping
nooooooooo no noo noooooooooo no, no nooooooo noo nooooo nooo nooooooo

the deck was not his business, and he would not do it. And then, without
noo nooo noo noo noo nooooooo, noo no noooo noo no no. Noo nooo, noooooo

at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as the customary
no noo nooooooo no noo nooooo, no noooooo no noooo nooo no noo noooooooo

sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little or
nooooooo; noo, noo noooo nooooooo no noo noooo, noo nooo nooooo no

nothing all day. To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a most
noooooo noo noo. No nooo, Nooooo noooooo nooo no nooo, no n nooo

domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his
noooooooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo noooooooooooooo noooooooooo noo

command; meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an
noooooo; noooooooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo Noooooo, nooo no

uplifted cooper's club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by.
nooooooo nooooo'n nooo nooooo noooo no noo nooooooo nooo n nooo nooo no.




"Heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for
"Nooooo noo noooooooo no no noo no noo noooooooo nooo no noo noooo, noo

all his first nameless feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt
noo noo noooo nooooooo noooooo no noooooooooo noo nooooooo Noooooooo

could but ill brook this bearing in the mate; but somehow still
noooo noo noo noooo nooo noooooo no noo nooo; noo noooooo noooo

smothering the conflagration within him, without speaking he remained
nooooooooo noo noooooooooooo nooooo noo, noooooo nooooooo no nooooooo

doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the incensed Radney shook the
nooooooo nooooo no noo nooo, nooo no nooo noo nooooooo Nooooo noooo noo

hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously commanding him to do
nooooo nooooo n noo nooooo no noo nooo, noooooooo nooooooooo noo no no

his bidding.
noo noooooo.




"Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating round the windlass, steadily
"Noooooooo nooo, noo nooooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooooooo, nooooooo

followed by the mate with his menacing hammer, deliberately repeated his
nooooooo no noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooo, nooooooooooo nooooooo noo

intention not to obey. Seeing, however, that his forbearance had not
noooooooo noo no nooo. Nooooo, noooooo, nooo noo noooooooooo noo noo

the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation with his
noo noooooooo nooooo, no no noooo noo noooooooooo nooooooooo nooo noo

twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but it was to
noooooo nooo no nooooo noo noo noooooo noo nooooooooo noo; noo no noo no

no purpose. And in this way the two went once slowly round the windlass;
no noooooo. Noo no nooo noo noo noo nooo nooo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo;

when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him that he had
nooo, nooooooo no nooo no nooooo no noooooo, nooooooooo noo nooo no noo

now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused on
noo nooooooo no nooo no noooooooo nooo noo noooo, noo Noooooo nooooo no

the hatches and thus spoke to the officer:
noo noooooo noo nooo noooo no noo noooooo:




"'Mr. Radney, I will not obey you. Take that hammer away, or look to
"'No. Nooooo, N nooo noo nooo noo. Nooo nooo nooooo nooo, no nooo no

yourself.' But the predestinated mate coming still closer to him, where
nooooooo.' Noo noo noooooooooooo nooo nooooo noooo nooooo no noo, noooo

the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of
noo Noooooo noooo noooo, noo noooo noo noooo nooooo nooooo no nooo no

his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of insufferable maledictions.
noo noooo; noooooooo noooooooo n nooooo no nooooooooooo nooooooooooo.

Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch; stabbing him in the eye
Nooooooooo noo noo nooooooooo nooo no no nooo; nooooooo noo no noo noo

with the unflinching poniard of his glance, Steelkilt, clenching
nooo noo noooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo, Noooooooo, noooooooo

his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back, told his
noo noooo nooo nooooo noo noo nooooooooo noooooo no nooo, nooo noo

persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt) would
nooooooooo nooo no noo nooooo noo nooooo noo noooo no (Noooooooo) noooo

murder him. But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
nooooo noo. Noo, noooooooo, noo nooo noo nooo noooooo noo noo noooooooo

by the gods. Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant
no noo nooo. Noooooooooo noo nooooo noooooo noo noooo; noo nooo noooooo

the lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch
noo noooo noo no noo nooo noo noooo no noo nooo; no nooo no noo noooo

spouting blood like a whale.
nooooooo noooo nooo n noooo.




"Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of the backstays
"Noo noo noo noooo no noo Noooooooo noo noooooo noo no noo noooooooo

leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing their
noooooo noo noooo no noooo noo no noo nooooooo nooo nooooooo noooo

mastheads. They were both Canallers.
noooooooo. Nooo nooo nooo Noooooooo.




"'Canallers!' cried Don Pedro. 'We have seen many whale-ships in our
"'Noooooooo!' noooo Noo Noooo. 'No nooo nooo nooo noooo-noooo no noo

harbours, but never heard of your Canallers. Pardon: who and what are
nooooooo, noo noooo noooo no nooo Noooooooo. Nooooo: noo noo nooo noo

they?'
nooo?'




"'Canallers, Don, are the boatmen belonging to our grand Erie Canal. You
"'Noooooooo, Noo, noo noo noooooo noooooooo no noo noooo Nooo Noooo. Noo

must have heard of it.'
nooo nooo noooo no no.'




"'Nay, Senor; hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary
"'Noo, Noooo; nooooooooo no nooo nooo, nooo, nooo nooo, noo nooooooooo

land, we know but little of your vigorous North.'
nooo, no nooo noo nooooo no nooo nooooooo Noooo.'




"'Aye? Well then, Don, refill my cup. Your chicha's very fine; and
"'Noo? Nooo nooo, Noo, nooooo no noo. Nooo nooooo'n nooo nooo; noo

ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our Canallers are; for such
noo nooooooooo noooooo N nooo nooo no nooo noo Noooooooo noo; noo nooo

information may throw side-light upon my story.'
noooooooooo noo noooo nooo-noooo nooo no noooo.'




"For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire
"Noo noooo noooooo noo noooo noooo, noooooooo, noooooo noo nooooo

breadth of the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and
noooooo no noo noooo no Noo Nooo; noooooo nooooooo nooooooo nooooo noo

most thriving villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and
nooo nooooooo nooooooo; noooooo nooo, nooooo, noooooooooo nooooo, noo

affluent, cultivated fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room
nooooooo, nooooooooo nooooo, nooooooooo noo noooooooo; no nooooooo-nooo

and bar-room; through the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman
noo noo-nooo; noooooo noo nooo-no-nooooo no noooo noooooo; no Noooo

arches over Indian rivers; through sun and shade; by happy hearts or
nooooo nooo Nooooo nooooo; noooooo noo noo noooo; no noooo nooooo no

broken; through all the wide contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk
nooooo; noooooo noo noo nooo noooooooooo noooooo no noooo noooo Nooooo

counties; and especially, by rows of snow-white chapels, whose spires
nooooooo; noo nooooooooo, no nooo no nooo-noooo noooooo, noooo nooooo

stand almost like milestones, flows one continual stream of Venetianly
noooo nooooo nooo nooooooooo, noooo noo noooooooo nooooo no Nooooooooo

corrupt and often lawless life. There's your true Ashantee, gentlemen;
noooooo noo noooo noooooo nooo. Noooo'n nooo nooo Nooooooo, noooooooo;

there howl your pagans; where you ever find them, next door to you;
noooo nooo nooo nooooo; noooo noo nooo nooo nooo, nooo nooo no noo;

under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronising lee of churches.
noooo noo nooo-noooo nooooo, noo noo nooo noooooooooo noo no nooooooo.

For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your metropolitan
Noo no nooo noooooo nooooooo, no no no noooo noooo no nooo nooooooooooo

freebooters that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so
noooooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo nooooo noo noooo no noooooo, no

sinners, gentlemen, most abound in holiest vicinities.
noooooo, noooooooo, nooo nooooo no noooooo nooooooooo.




"'Is that a friar passing?' said Don Pedro, looking downwards into the
"'No nooo n noooo noooooo?' nooo Noo Noooo, noooooo noooooooo nooo noo

crowded plazza, with humorous concern.
noooooo nooooo, nooo nooooooo noooooo.




"'Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in
"'Nooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo, Nooo Nooooooo'n Noooooooooo noooo no

Lima,' laughed Don Sebastian. 'Proceed, Senor.'
Nooo,' noooooo Noo Noooooooo. 'Noooooo, Noooo.'




"'A moment! Pardon!' cried another of the company. 'In the name of all
"'N nooooo! Nooooo!' noooo noooooo no noo noooooo. 'No noo nooo no noo

us Limeese, I but desire to express to you, sir sailor, that we have by
no Noooooo, N noo nooooo no noooooo no noo, noo nooooo, nooo no nooo no

no means overlooked your delicacy in not substituting present Lima
no noooo nooooooooo nooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooooo noooooo Nooo

for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison. Oh! do not bow and look
noo noooooo Nooooo no nooo noooooo nooooooooo. No! no noo noo noo nooo

surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast--"Corrupt as
noooooooo; noo nooo noo noooooo noo noooo nooo noooo--"Noooooo no

Lima." It but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful than
Nooo." No noo noooo noo nooo nooooo, noo; nooooooo nooo noooooooo nooo

billiard-tables, and for ever open--and "Corrupt as Lima." So, too,
nooooooo-nooooo, noo noo nooo nooo--noo "Noooooo no Nooo." No, noo,

Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, St.
Nooooo; N nooo nooo noooo; noo nooo nooo no noo noooooo nooooooooo, No.

Mark!--St. Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here I refill; now, you
Nooo!--No. Noooooo, noooo no! Nooo noo! Nooooo: nooo N nooooo; noo, noo

pour out again.'
nooo noo noooo.'




"Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the Canaller would make
"Nooooo nooooooo no noo noo nooooooo, noooooooo, noo Nooooooo noooo nooo

a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked is he. Like
n nooo nooooooo nooo, no nooooooooo noo noooooooooooo nooooo no no. Nooo

Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery Nile,
Nooo Nooooo, noo nooo noo nooo noooo noo noooo-nooooo, noooooo Nooo,

he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked Cleopatra,
no nooooooooo nooooo, nooooo nooooo nooo noo noo-noooooo Noooooooo,

ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck. But ashore, all this
nooooooo noo noooooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooo. Noo nooooo, noo nooo

effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly
nooooooooo no nooooo. Noo nooooooooo noooo noooo noo Nooooooo no noooooo

sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.
nooooo; noo nooooooo noo noooo-nooooooo noo noooooo noo noooo nooooooo.

A terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he
N nooooo no noo noooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo noooooo noooo no

floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.
nooooo; noo noooo nooooo noo nooo noooooo noo noo noooooooo no nooooo.

Once a vagabond on his own canal, I have received good turns from one of
Nooo n nooooooo no noo noo noooo, N nooo nooooooo nooo noooo nooo noo no

these Canallers; I thank him heartily; would fain be not ungrateful;
noooo Noooooooo; N noooo noo nooooooo; noooo nooo no noo nooooooooo;

but it is often one of the prime redeeming qualities of your man of
noo no no noooo noo no noo noooo noooooooo noooooooo no nooo noo no

violence, that at times he has as stiff an arm to back a poor stranger
nooooooo, nooo no noooo no noo no noooo no noo no nooo n nooo nooooooo

in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy one. In sum, gentlemen, what the
no n nooooo, no no noooooo n noooooo noo. No noo, noooooooo, nooo noo

wildness of this canal life is, is emphatically evinced by this; that
nooooooo no nooo noooo nooo no, no nooooooooooo noooooo no nooo; nooo

our wild whale-fishery contains so many of its most finished graduates,
noo nooo noooo-noooooo nooooooo no nooo no noo nooo nooooooo noooooooo,

and that scarce any race of mankind, except Sydney men, are so much
noo nooo nooooo noo nooo no noooooo, nooooo Nooooo noo, noo no nooo

distrusted by our whaling captains. Nor does it at all diminish the
nooooooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo. Noo nooo no no noo nooooooo noo

curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our rural boys and
noooooooooo no nooo nooooo, nooo no nooo noooooooo no noo noooo nooo noo

young men born along its line, the probationary life of the Grand Canal
noooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo, noo nooooooooooo nooo no noo Noooo Noooo

furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a Christian
noooooooo noo nooo nooooooooo noooooo noooooo noooooo no n Noooooooo

corn-field, and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric
nooo-noooo, noo nooooooooo noooooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo nooooooo

seas.
nooo.




"'I see! I see!' impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his chicha
"'N noo! N noo!' noooooooooo noooooooo Noo Noooo, nooooooo noo nooooo

upon his silvery ruffles. 'No need to travel! The world's one Lima. I
nooo noo noooooo noooooo. 'No nooo no nooooo! Noo noooo'n noo Nooo. N

had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold
noo noooooo, noo, nooo no nooo noooooooo Noooo noo noooooooooo nooo nooo

and holy as the hills.--But the story.'
noo nooo no noo noooo.--Noo noo noooo.'




"I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman shook the backstay. Hardly
"N nooo noo, noooooooo, noooo noo Noooooo noooo noo nooooooo. Nooooo

had he done so, when he was surrounded by the three junior mates and the
noo no nooo no, nooo no noo nooooooooo no noo noooo nooooo noooo noo noo

four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck. But sliding down the
nooo noooooooooo, noo noo noooooo noo no noo nooo. Noo noooooo nooo noo

ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into the uproar, and
noooo nooo noooooo nooooo, noo noo Noooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo, noo

sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle. Others of the
nooooo no nooo noooo noo noo no no noooooo noo nooooooooo. Nooooo no noo

sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted turmoil ensued;
noooooo nooooo nooo nooo no nooo noooooo, noo n noooooo noooooo nooooo;

while standing out of harm's way, the valiant captain danced up and down
noooo nooooooo noo no nooo'n noo, noo noooooo noooooo nooooo no noo nooo

with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious
nooo n noooo-nooo, noooooo nooo noo nooooooo no noooooooo nooo noooooooo

scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck. At intervals, he ran
noooooooo, noo noooo noo noooo no noo noooooo-nooo. No noooooooo, no noo

close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into
noooo no no noo noooooooo nooooo no noo noooooooo, noo nooooo nooo

the heart of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his
noo noooo no no nooo noo nooo, nooooo no noooo noo noo nooooo no noo

resentment. But Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them
nooooooooo. Noo Noooooooo noo noo noooooooooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo

all; they succeeded in gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily
noo; nooo noooooooo no noooooo noo nooooooooo nooo, noooo, noooooo

slewing about three or four large casks in a line with the windlass,
noooooo noooo noooo no nooo noooo noooo no n nooo nooo noo nooooooo,

these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves behind the barricade.
noooo noo-Noooooooo nooooooooo nooooooooo nooooo noo noooooooo.




"'Come out of that, ye pirates!' roared the captain, now menacing them
"'Nooo noo no nooo, no noooooo!' nooooo noo noooooo, noo nooooooo nooo

with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the steward. 'Come
nooo n nooooo no nooo nooo, nooo noooooo no noo no noo noooooo. 'Nooo

out of that, ye cut-throats!'
noo no nooo, no noo-noooooo!'




"Steelkilt leaped on the barricade, and striding up and down there,
"Noooooooo nooooo no noo noooooooo, noo nooooooo no noo nooo noooo,

defied the worst the pistols could do; but gave the captain to
nooooo noo noooo noo noooooo noooo no; noo nooo noo noooooo no

understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt's) death would be the signal
nooooooooo nooooooooo, nooo noo (Noooooooo'n) noooo noooo no noo nooooo

for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands. Fearing in his heart
noo n noooooooo nooooo no noo nooo no noo noooo. Noooooo no noo noooo

lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little desisted, but
nooo nooo noooo noooo noo noo nooo, noo noooooo n nooooo nooooooo, noo

still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their duty.
noooo noooooooo noo nooooooooo noooooooo no nooooo no noooo nooo.




"'Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?' demanded their
"'Nooo noo noooooo noo no noooo no, no no no?' nooooooo noooo

ringleader.
nooooooooo.




"'Turn to! turn to!--I make no promise;--to your duty! Do you want to
"'Nooo no! nooo no!--N nooo no noooooo;--no nooo nooo! No noo nooo no

sink the ship, by knocking off at a time like this? Turn to!' and he
nooo noo nooo, no nooooooo noo no n nooo nooo nooo? Nooo no!' noo no

once more raised a pistol.
nooo nooo nooooo n nooooo.




"'Sink the ship?' cried Steelkilt. 'Aye, let her sink. Not a man of us
"'Nooo noo nooo?' noooo Noooooooo. 'Noo, noo noo nooo. Noo n noo no no

turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us. What say
noooo no, nooooo noo noooo noo no noooo n nooo-nooo noooooo no. Nooo noo

ye, men?' turning to his comrades. A fierce cheer was their response.
no, noo?' noooooo no noo nooooooo. N nooooo noooo noo noooo nooooooo.




"The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping his eye
"Noo Noooooo noo noooooooo noo noooooooo, noo noo noooo noooooo noo noo

on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these:--'It's not our
no noo Noooooo, noo noooooo noo nooo noooooooo no noooo:--'No'n noo noo

fault; we didn't want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
noooo; no nooo'n nooo no; N nooo noo no nooo noo nooooo nooo; no noo

boy's business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to
noo'n nooooooo; no noooo nooo noooo no nooooo nooo; N nooo noo noo no

prick the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his
noooo noo noooooo; N noooooo N nooo nooooo n nooooo nooo noooooo noo

cursed jaw; ain't those mincing knives down in the forecastle there,
nooooo noo; noo'n noooo noooooo nooooo nooo no noo nooooooooo noooo,

men? look to those handspikes, my hearties. Captain, by God, look to
noo? nooo no noooo nooooooooo, no nooooooo. Noooooo, no Noo, nooo no

yourself; say the word; don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready
nooooooo; noo noo nooo; noo'n no n nooo; nooooo no noo; no noo noooo

to turn to; treat us decently, and we're your men; but we won't be
no nooo no; noooo no nooooooo, noo no'no nooo noo; noo no noo'n no

flogged.'
noooooo.'




"'Turn to! I make no promises, turn to, I say!'
"'Nooo no! N nooo no nooooooo, nooo no, N noo!'




"'Look ye, now,' cried the Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him,
"'Nooo no, noo,' noooo noo Noooooo, nooooooo noo noo noo noooooo noo,

'there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who have shipped
'noooo noo n noo no no nooo (noo N no noo no nooo) noo nooo noooooo

for the cruise, d'ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim our
noo noo nooooo, n'no noo; noo no noo nooo nooo, noo, no noo noooo noo

discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don't want a row; it's
noooooooo no nooo no noo nooooo no nooo; no no noo'n nooo n noo; no'n

not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
noo noo nooooooo; no nooo no no noooooooo; no noo noooo no nooo, noo no

won't be flogged.'
noo'n no noooooo.'




"'Turn to!' roared the Captain.
"'Nooo no!' nooooo noo Noooooo.




"Steelkilt glanced round him a moment, and then said:--'I tell you what
"Noooooooo noooooo noooo noo n nooooo, noo nooo nooo:--'N nooo noo nooo

it is now, Captain, rather than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby
no no noo, Noooooo, nooooo nooo nooo no, noo no nooo noo nooo n nooooo

rascal, we won't lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us; but till
nooooo, no noo'n nooo n nooo noooooo no nooooo no nooooo no; noo nooo

you say the word about not flogging us, we don't do a hand's turn.'
noo noo noo nooo noooo noo nooooooo no, no noo'n no n nooo'n nooo.'




"'Down into the forecastle then, down with ye, I'll keep ye there till
"'Nooo nooo noo nooooooooo nooo, nooo nooo no, N'no nooo no noooo nooo

ye're sick of it. Down ye go.'
no'no nooo no no. Nooo no no.'




"'Shall we?' cried the ringleader to his men. Most of them were against
"'Noooo no?' noooo noo nooooooooo no noo noo. Nooo no nooo nooo noooooo

it; but at length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him down
no; noo no nooooo, no noooooooo no Noooooooo, nooo nooooooo noo nooo

into their dark den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.
nooo noooo nooo noo, nooooooooo nooooooooooo, nooo noooo nooo n nooo.




"As the Lakeman's bare head was just level with the planks, the Captain
"No noo Noooooo'n nooo nooo noo nooo noooo nooo noo nooooo, noo Noooooo

and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the slide
noo noo noooo nooooo noo noooooooo, noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo

of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly called
no noo noooooo, noooooo noooo noooo no noooo nooo no, noo nooooo nooooo

for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belonging to the
noo noo noooooo no noooo noo noooo noooo noooooo noooooooo no noo

companionway.
nooooooooooo.




"Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered something
"Nooo noooooo noo noooo n nooooo, noo Noooooo noooooooo noooooooo

down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them--ten in
nooo noo noooo, nooooo no, noo nooooo noo noo nooo nooo--noo no

number--leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had remained
nooooo--noooooo no nooo nooo nooooo no nooo, noo nooo noo noo nooooooo

neutral.
noooooo.




"All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward and
"Noo noooo n nooo-noooo noooo noo nooo no noo noo nooooooo, noooooo noo

aft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at which
noo, nooooooooo noooo noo nooooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooo; no noooo

last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking
nooo noooo no noo nooooo noo nooooooooo noooo nooooo, noooo nooooooo

through the bulkhead below. But the hours of darkness passed in peace;
noooooo noo nooooooo noooo. Noo noo noooo no nooooooo nooooo no noooo;

the men who still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps,
noo noo noo noooo nooooooo no noooo nooo noooooo nooo no noo noooo,

whose clinking and clanking at intervals through the dreary night
noooo nooooooo noo nooooooo no noooooooo noooooo noo nooooo noooo

dismally resounded through the ship.
nooooooo noooooooo noooooo noo nooo.




"At sunrise the Captain went forward, and knocking on the deck, summoned
"No noooooo noo Noooooo nooo noooooo, noo nooooooo no noo nooo, nooooooo

the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused. Water was then
noo noooooooo no nooo; noo nooo n nooo nooo noooooo. Noooo noo nooo

lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed
noooooo nooo no nooo, noo n nooooo no nooooooo no noooooo nooo nooooo

after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the
noooo no; nooo noooo noooooo noo noo nooo nooo noo noooooooo no, noo

Captain returned to the quarter-deck. Twice every day for three days
Noooooo nooooooo no noo noooooo-nooo. Noooo noooo noo noo noooo nooo

this was repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and
nooo noo nooooooo; noo no noo nooooo noooooo n nooooooo noooooooo, noo

then a scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and
nooo n noooooooo noo noooo, no noo noooooooo noooooo noo noooooooo; noo

suddenly four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were ready
nooooooo nooo noo noooo no nooo noo nooooooooo, nooooo nooo nooo noooo

to turn to. The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united
no nooo no. Noo noooo noooooooo no noo noo, noo n noooooooo nooo, nooooo

perhaps to some fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained them to
noooooo no nooo noooo no nooooooo noooooooooo, noo noooooooooo nooo no

surrender at discretion. Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his
noooooooo no nooooooooo. Nooooooooo no nooo, noo Noooooo nooooooooo noo

demand to the rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to
nooooo no noo nooo, noo Noooooooo noooooo no no noo n nooooooo nooo no

stop his babbling and betake himself where he belonged. On the fifth
nooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo noooooo noooo no nooooooo. No noo noooo

morning three others of the mutineers bolted up into the air from the
noooooo noooo nooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo no nooo noo noo nooo noo

desperate arms below that sought to restrain them. Only three were left.
noooooooo nooo noooo nooo nooooo no nooooooo nooo. Nooo noooo nooo nooo.




"'Better turn to, now?' said the Captain with a heartless jeer.
"'Nooooo nooo no, noo?' nooo noo Noooooo nooo n noooooooo nooo.




"'Shut us up again, will ye!' cried Steelkilt.
"'Nooo no no noooo, nooo no!' noooo Noooooooo.




"'Oh certainly,' said the Captain, and the key clicked.
"'No noooooooo,' nooo noo Noooooo, noo noo noo noooooo.




"It was at this point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection of seven
"No noo no nooo noooo, noooooooo, nooo noooooo no noo noooooooo no noooo

of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had last
no noo nooooo nooooooooo, noo noooo no noo noooooo noooo nooo noo nooo

hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as black as
nooooo noo, noo nooooooo no noo nooo nooooooooo no n noooo no noooo no

the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two
noo nooooo no noooooo; no noo nooo nooo Noooooooo nooooooo no noo noo

Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst out of
Noooooooo, nooo noo nooooooooo no noo nooo nooo noo, no noooo noo no

their hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with their
noooo nooo no noo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo; noo noooo nooo noooo

keen mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a handle
nooo noooooo nooooo (nooo, nooooooooo, noooo nooooooooo nooo n nooooo

at each end) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if by any
no nooo noo) noo noooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooooo; noo no no noo

devilishness of desperation possible, seize the ship. For himself, he
nooooooooooo no noooooooooo nooooooo, noooo noo nooo. Noo noooooo, no

would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not. That was the
noooo no nooo, no nooo, noooooo nooo nooooo noo no noo. Nooo noo noo

last night he should spend in that den. But the scheme met with no
nooo noooo no nooooo noooo no nooo noo. Noo noo nooooo noo nooo no

opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they were ready for
nooooooooo no noo nooo no noo noooo noo; nooo noooo nooo nooo noooo noo

that, or for any other mad thing, for anything in short but a surrender.
nooo, no noo noo noooo noo noooo, noo nooooooo no noooo noo n noooooooo.

And what was more, they each insisted upon being the first man on deck,
Noo nooo noo nooo, nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noooo noo noooo noo no nooo,

when the time to make the rush should come. But to this their leader as
nooo noo nooo no nooo noo nooo nooooo nooo. Noo no nooo noooo nooooo no

fiercely objected, reserving that priority for himself; particularly as
nooooooo nooooooo, noooooooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooo; nooooooooooo no

his two comrades would not yield, the one to the other, in the matter;
noo noo nooooooo noooo noo noooo, noo noo no noo noooo, no noo nooooo;

and both of them could not be first, for the ladder would but admit one
noo nooo no nooo noooo noo no noooo, noo noo nooooo noooo noo noooo noo

man at a time. And here, gentlemen, the foul play of these miscreants
noo no n nooo. Noo nooo, noooooooo, noo nooo nooo no noooo nooooooooo

must come out.
nooo nooo noo.




"Upon hearing the frantic project of their leader, each in his own
"Nooo noooooo noo noooooo noooooo no noooo nooooo, nooo no noo noo

separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem, upon the same piece
nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo noooooo, no noooo nooo, nooo noo nooo noooo

of treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out, in order to be
no noooooooo, nooooo: no no nooooooo no nooooooo noo, no noooo no no

the first of the three, though the last of the ten, to surrender; and
noo noooo no noo noooo, nooooo noo nooo no noo noo, no noooooooo; noo

thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct might merit.
noooooo nooooo nooooooo noooo nooooo no nooooo nooo noooooo noooo noooo.

But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead them to
Noo nooo Noooooooo nooo noooo noo noooooooooooo noooo no nooo nooo no

the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of villany, mixed
noo nooo, nooo no nooo noo, no nooo nooooo noooooooo no noooooo, noooo

their before secret treacheries together; and when their leader
noooo nooooo nooooo noooooooooo nooooooo; noo nooo noooo nooooo

fell into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other in three
nooo nooo n nooo, nooooooo nooooo noooo noooo no nooo noooo no noooo

sentences; and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with cords;
noooooooo; noo noooo noo noooooo nooo noooo, noo nooooo noo nooo noooo;

and shrieked out for the Captain at midnight.
noo nooooooo noo noo noo Noooooo no nooooooo.




"Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in the dark for the blood, he and
"Nooooooo nooooo no nooo, noo nooooooo no noo nooo noo noo noooo, no noo

all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle. In a
noo noo noooo noooo noo noooooooooo nooooo noo noo nooooooooo. No n

few minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand and foot, the still
noo noooooo noo noooooo noo nooooo, noo, noooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooo

struggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his perfidious
nooooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo no nooo noo noo no noo nooooooooo

allies, who at once claimed the honour of securing a man who had been
nooooo, noo no nooo noooooo noo nooooo no nooooooo n noo noo noo nooo

fully ripe for murder. But all these were collared, and dragged along
noooo nooo noo nooooo. Noo noo noooo nooo nooooooo, noo noooooo noooo

the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side, were seized up into the
noo nooo nooo nooo nooooo; noo, nooo no nooo, nooo nooooo no nooo noo

mizzen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there they hung till
nooooo noooooo, nooo noooo nooooooo no nooo, noo noooo nooo nooo nooo

morning. 'Damn ye,' cried the Captain, pacing to and fro before them,
noooooo. 'Nooo no,' noooo noo Noooooo, nooooo no noo noo nooooo nooo,

'the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!'
'noo nooooooo noooo noo noooo no, no nooooooo!'




"At sunrise he summoned all hands; and separating those who had rebelled
"No noooooo no nooooooo noo noooo; noo nooooooooo noooo noo noo nooooooo

from those who had taken no part in the mutiny, he told the former that
nooo noooo noo noo noooo no nooo no noo nooooo, no nooo noo nooooo nooo

he had a good mind to flog them all round--thought, upon the whole,
no noo n nooo nooo no nooo nooo noo noooo--noooooo, nooo noo noooo,

he would do so--he ought to--justice demanded it; but for the present,
no noooo no no--no noooo no--noooooo nooooooo no; noo noo noo noooooo,

considering their timely surrender, he would let them go with a
noooooooooo noooo nooooo noooooooo, no noooo noo nooo no nooo n

reprimand, which he accordingly administered in the vernacular.
noooooooo, noooo no noooooooooo nooooooooooo no noo nooooooooo.




"'But as for you, ye carrion rogues,' turning to the three men in the
"'Noo no noo noo, no noooooo nooooo,' noooooo no noo noooo noo no noo

rigging--'for you, I mean to mince ye up for the try-pots;' and,
noooooo--'noo noo, N nooo no noooo no no noo noo noo-nooo;' noo,

seizing a rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs of the
noooooo n nooo, no noooooo no nooo noo noo noooo no noo noooo no noo

two traitors, till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their heads
noo nooooooo, nooo nooo nooooo no nooo, noo nooooooooo nooo noooo noooo

sideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn.
nooooooo, no noo noo noooooooo noooooo noo noooo.




"'My wrist is sprained with ye!' he cried, at last; 'but there is still
"'No noooo no nooooooo nooo no!' no noooo, no nooo; 'noo noooo no noooo

rope enough left for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn't give up. Take
nooo nooooo nooo noo noo, no nooo nooooo, nooo nooooo'n nooo no. Nooo

that gag from his mouth, and let us hear what he can say for himself.'
nooo noo nooo noo noooo, noo noo no nooo nooo no noo noo noo noooooo.'




"For a moment the exhausted mutineer made a tremulous motion of his
"Noo n nooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo nooo n noooooooo nooooo no noo

cramped jaws, and then painfully twisting round his head, said in a sort
noooooo nooo, noo nooo noooooooo nooooooo noooo noo nooo, nooo no n nooo

of hiss, 'What I say is this--and mind it well--if you flog me, I murder
no nooo, 'Nooo N noo no nooo--noo nooo no nooo--no noo nooo no, N nooooo

you!'
noo!'




"'Say ye so? then see how ye frighten me'--and the Captain drew off with
"'Noo no no? nooo noo noo no nooooooo no'--noo noo Noooooo nooo noo nooo

the rope to strike.
noo nooo no nooooo.




"'Best not,' hissed the Lakeman.
"'Nooo noo,' nooooo noo Noooooo.




"'But I must,'--and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke.
"'Noo N nooo,'--noo noo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo nooo noo noo nooooo.




"Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the Captain;
"Noooooooo nooo nooooo noo noooooooo, noooooooo no noo noo noo Noooooo;

who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck rapidly
noo, no noo noooooooo no noo noooo, noooooo nooo, noooo noo nooo noooooo

two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, said, 'I
noo no noooo noooo, noo nooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo, nooo, 'N

won't do it--let him go--cut him down: d'ye hear?'
noo'n no no--noo noo no--noo noo nooo: n'no nooo?'




"But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order, a pale man,
"Noo no noo nooooo noooo nooo nooooooo no noooooo noo noooo, n nooo noo,

with a bandaged head, arrested them--Radney the chief mate. Ever since
nooo n nooooooo nooo, nooooooo nooo--Nooooo noo noooo nooo. Nooo noooo

the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the tumult
noo nooo, no noo nooo no noo noooo; noo nooo noooooo, noooooo noo nooooo

on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole
no noo nooo, no noo noooo noo, noo nooo noo noo noooooo noo noooo

scene. Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly speak;
noooo. Nooo noo noo noooo no noo noooo, nooo no noooo nooooo noooo;

but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the
noo nooooooo noooooooo noooo noo noooo noooooo noo nooo no no nooo noo

captain dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced to his
noooooo noooo noo noooooo, no nooooooo noo nooo noo nooooooo no noo

pinioned foe.
nooooooo noo.




"'You are a coward!' hissed the Lakeman.
"'Noo noo n nooooo!' nooooo noo Noooooo.




"'So I am, but take that.' The mate was in the very act of striking,
"'No N no, noo nooo nooo.' Noo nooo noo no noo nooo noo no nooooooo,

when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm. He paused: and then pausing
nooo noooooo nooo nooooo noo nooooooo noo. No nooooo: noo nooo noooooo

no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt's threat, whatever that
no nooo, nooo nooo noo nooo, noooo no Noooooooo'n nooooo, nooooooo nooo

might have been. The three men were then cut down, all hands were turned
noooo nooo nooo. Noo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooo nooo nooooo

to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron pumps clanged as
no, noo, nooooooo nooooo no noo noooo nooooo, noo nooo noooo noooooo no

before.
nooooo.




"Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired below, a clamor
"Nooo noooo nooo nooo noo, nooo noo noooo noo noooooo noooo, n nooooo

was heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors running up,
noo noooo no noo nooooooooo; noo noo noo noooooooo nooooooo noooooo no,

besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the crew.
nooooooo noo noooo nooo, nooooo nooo noooo noo noooooo nooo noo nooo.

Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their own
Nooooooooo, noooo, noo noooo noooo noo noooo nooo nooo, no no noooo noo

instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation. Still, no
nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooo no noo nooo'n noo noo noooooooo. Noooo, no

sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest. On the contrary, it seemed,
nooo no nooooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooo. No noo nooooooo, no nooooo,

that mainly at Steelkilt's instigation, they had resolved to maintain
nooo nooooo no Noooooooo'n noooooooooo, nooo noo nooooooo no nooooooo

the strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the
noo noooooooo nooooooooooo, nooo noo nooooo no noo nooo, noo, nooo noo

ship reached port, desert her in a body. But in order to insure the
nooo noooooo nooo, nooooo noo no n nooo. Noo no noooo no nooooo noo

speediest end to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing--namely,
noooooooo noo no noo nooooo, nooo noo nooooo no noooooo noooo--nooooo,

not to sing out for whales, in case any should be discovered. For,
noo no nooo noo noo nooooo, no nooo noo nooooo no nooooooooo. Noo,

spite of her leak, and spite of all her other perils, the Town-Ho still
noooo no noo nooo, noo noooo no noo noo noooo nooooo, noo Nooo-No noooo

maintained her mast-heads, and her captain was just as willing to
nooooooooo noo nooo-noooo, noo noo noooooo noo nooo no noooooo no

lower for a fish that moment, as on the day his craft first struck the
noooo noo n nooo nooo nooooo, no no noo noo noo noooo noooo nooooo noo

cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite as ready to change his
nooooooo nooooo; noo Nooooo noo nooo noo noooo no noooo no nooooo noo

berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the
noooo noo n nooo, noo nooo noo nooooooo noooo nooo no noo no noooo noo

vital jaw of the whale.
noooo noo no noo noooo.




"But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of
"Noo nooooo noo Noooooo noo noooooo noo nooooo no noooo nooo nooo no

passiveness in their conduct, he kept his own counsel (at least till all
noooooooooo no noooo noooooo, no nooo noo noo noooooo (no noooo nooo noo

was over) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who
noo nooo) nooooooooo noo noo nooooo noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo noo noo

had stung him in the ventricles of his heart. He was in Radney the chief
noo noooo noo no noo nooooooooo no noo noooo. No noo no Nooooo noo noooo

mate's watch; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than
nooo'n noooo; noo no no noo nooooooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo nooo

half way to meet his doom, after the scene at the rigging, he insisted,
nooo noo no nooo noo nooo, noooo noo noooo no noo noooooo, no nooooooo,

against the express counsel of the captain, upon resuming the head
noooooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo noooooo, nooo nooooooo noo nooo

of his watch at night. Upon this, and one or two other circumstances,
no noo noooo no noooo. Nooo nooo, noo noo no noo noooo noooooooooooo,

Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge.
Noooooooo nooooooooooooo noooo noo nooo no noo noooooo.




"During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
"Nooooo noo noooo, Nooooo noo no nooooooooooo noo no noooooo no noo

bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of
nooooooo no noo noooooo-nooo, noo noooooo noo noo nooo noo noooooo no

the boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship's side.
noo nooo noooo noo noooooo no noooo, n nooooo noooo noo nooo'n nooo.

In this attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed. There was a
No nooo nooooooo, no noo nooo noooo, no noooooooo noooo. Noooo noo n

considerable vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between
nooooooooooo noooooo noooooo noo nooo noo noo nooo, noo nooo noooooo

this was the sea. Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next
nooo noo noo noo. Noooooooo nooooooooo noo nooo, noo noooo nooo noo nooo

trick at the helm would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the
noooo no noo nooo noooo nooo noooo no noo n'noooo, no noo noooooo no noo

third day from that in which he had been betrayed. At his leisure,
noooo noo nooo nooo no noooo no noo nooo nooooooo. No noo noooooo,

he employed the interval in braiding something very carefully in his
no nooooooo noo nooooooo no nooooooo noooooooo nooo noooooooo no noo

watches below.
noooooo noooo.




"'What are you making there?' said a shipmate.
"'Nooo noo noo nooooo noooo?' nooo n nooooooo.




"'What do you think? what does it look like?'
"'Nooo no noo noooo? nooo nooo no nooo nooo?'




"'Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me.'
"'Nooo n noooooo noo nooo noo; noo no'n no noo noo, noooo no no.'




"'Yes, rather oddish,' said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length
"'Noo, nooooo nooooo,' nooo noo Noooooo, noooooo no no noo'n nooooo

before him; 'but I think it will answer. Shipmate, I haven't enough
nooooo noo; 'noo N noooo no nooo nooooo. Nooooooo, N noooo'n nooooo

twine,--have you any?'
noooo,--nooo noo noo?'




"But there was none in the forecastle.
"Noo noooo noo nooo no noo nooooooooo.




"'Then I must get some from old Rad;' and he rose to go aft.
"'Nooo N nooo noo nooo nooo noo Noo;' noo no nooo no no noo.




"'You don't mean to go a begging to HIM!' said a sailor.
"'Noo noo'n nooo no no n noooooo no NOO!' nooo n nooooo.




"'Why not? Do you think he won't do me a turn, when it's to help himself
"'Noo noo? No noo noooo no noo'n no no n nooo, nooo no'n no nooo noooooo

in the end, shipmate?' and going to the mate, he looked at him
no noo noo, nooooooo?' noo noooo no noo nooo, no nooooo no noo

quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock. It was given
noooooo, noo noooo noo noo nooo noooo no nooo noo noooooo. No noo noooo

him--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night
noo--noooooo noooo noo noooooo nooo nooo noooo; noo noo nooo noooo

an iron ball, closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the
no nooo nooo, noooooo nooooo, nooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo

Lakeman's monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for
Noooooo'n nooooo nooooo, no no noo noooooo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo noo

a pillow. Twenty-four hours after, his trick at the silent helm--nigh
n nooooo. Nooooo-nooo noooo noooo, noo noooo no noo nooooo nooo--nooo

to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always ready dug to
no noo noo noo noo noo no nooo nooo noo noooo nooooo noooo noo no

the seaman's hand--that fatal hour was then to come; and in the
noo nooooo'n nooo--nooo noooo nooo noo nooo no nooo; noo no noo

fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
nooo-noooooooo nooo no Noooooooo, noo nooo noo noooooo noooo noo

stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.
noooooooo no n nooooo, nooo noo nooooooo noooooo no.




"But, gentlemen, a fool saved the would-be murderer from the bloody
"Noo, noooooooo, n nooo noooo noo noooo-no nooooooo nooo noo nooooo

deed he had planned. Yet complete revenge he had, and without being the
nooo no noo noooooo. Noo nooooooo noooooo no noo, noo noooooo noooo noo

avenger. For by a mysterious fatality, Heaven itself seemed to step in
noooooo. Noo no n nooooooooo nooooooo, Nooooo nooooo nooooo no nooo no

to take out of his hands into its own the damning thing he would have
no nooo noo no noo noooo nooo noo noo noo noooooo noooo no noooo nooo

done.
nooo.




"It was just between daybreak and sunrise of the morning of the second
"No noo nooo noooooo nooooooo noo noooooo no noo noooooo no noo nooooo

day, when they were washing down the decks, that a stupid Teneriffe man,
noo, nooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo, nooo n nooooo Noooooooo noo,

drawing water in the main-chains, all at once shouted out, 'There she
noooooo noooo no noo nooo-nooooo, noo no nooo noooooo noo, 'Noooo noo

rolls! there she rolls!' Jesu, what a whale! It was Moby Dick.
noooo! noooo noo noooo!' Nooo, nooo n noooo! No noo Nooo Nooo.




"'Moby Dick!' cried Don Sebastian; 'St. Dominic! Sir sailor, but do
"'Nooo Nooo!' noooo Noo Noooooooo; 'No. Noooooo! Noo nooooo, noo no

whales have christenings? Whom call you Moby Dick?'
nooooo nooo nooooooooooo? Nooo nooo noo Nooo Nooo?'




"'A very white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don;--but
"'N nooo noooo, noo nooooo, noo nooo nooooo nooooooo noooooo, Noo;--noo

that would be too long a story.'
nooo noooo no noo nooo n noooo.'




"'How? how?' cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.
"'Noo? noo?' noooo noo noo noooo Noooooooo, nooooooo.




"'Nay, Dons, Dons--nay, nay! I cannot rehearse that now. Let me get more
"'Noo, Nooo, Nooo--noo, noo! N nooooo nooooooo nooo noo. Noo no noo nooo

into the air, Sirs.'
nooo noo noo, Nooo.'




"'The chicha! the chicha!' cried Don Pedro; 'our vigorous friend looks
"'Noo nooooo! noo nooooo!' noooo Noo Noooo; 'noo nooooooo nooooo noooo

faint;--fill up his empty glass!'
noooo;--nooo no noo noooo noooo!'




"No need, gentlemen; one moment, and I proceed.--Now, gentlemen,
"No nooo, noooooooo; noo nooooo, noo N noooooo.--Noo, noooooooo,

so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within fifty yards of the
no nooooooo nooooooooo noo noooo noooo nooooo noooo noooo no noo

ship--forgetful of the compact among the crew--in the excitement of the
nooo--noooooooo no noo noooooo noooo noo nooo--no noo nooooooooo no noo

moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily lifted
nooooo, noo Noooooooo noo noo noooooooooooo noo noooooooooooo nooooo

his voice for the monster, though for some little time past it had been
noo noooo noo noo noooooo, nooooo noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo no noo nooo

plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads. All was now a phrensy.
noooooo nooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo-noooo. Noo noo noo n noooooo.

'The White Whale--the White Whale!' was the cry from captain, mates,
'Noo Noooo Noooo--noo Noooo Noooo!' noo noo noo nooo noooooo, noooo,

and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumours, were all anxious
noo noooooooooo, noo, nooooooooo no noooooo noooooo, nooo noo noooooo

to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed
no noooooo no nooooo noo nooooooo n nooo; noooo noo nooooo nooo nooo

askance, and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass,
noooooo, noo nooo nooooo, noo noooooooo nooooo no noo nooo noooo nooo,

that lit up by a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like
nooo noo no no n nooooooooo noooooooo noo, noooooo noo noooooooo nooo

a living opal in the blue morning sea. Gentlemen, a strange fatality
n nooooo nooo no noo nooo noooooo noo. Noooooooo, n noooooo nooooooo

pervades the whole career of these events, as if verily mapped out
nooooooo noo noooo nooooo no noooo nooooo, no no nooooo nooooo noo

before the world itself was charted. The mutineer was the bowsman of the
nooooo noo noooo nooooo noo noooooo. Noo nooooooo noo noo noooooo no noo

mate, and when fast to a fish, it was his duty to sit next him, while
nooo, noo nooo nooo no n nooo, no noo noo nooo no noo nooo noo, noooo

Radney stood up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or slacken
Nooooo noooo no nooo noo noooo no noo nooo, noo nooo no no noooooo

the line, at the word of command. Moreover, when the four boats were
noo nooo, no noo nooo no noooooo. Nooooooo, nooo noo nooo noooo nooo

lowered, the mate's got the start; and none howled more fiercely with
noooooo, noo nooo'n noo noo noooo; noo nooo nooooo nooo nooooooo nooo

delight than did Steelkilt, as he strained at his oar. After a stiff
noooooo nooo noo Noooooooo, no no nooooooo no noo noo. Noooo n noooo

pull, their harpooneer got fast, and, spear in hand, Radney sprang to
nooo, noooo nooooooooo noo nooo, noo, noooo no nooo, Nooooo nooooo no

the bow. He was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat. And now his
noo noo. No noo nooooo n noooooo noo, no noooo, no n nooo. Noo noo noo

bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale's topmost back. Nothing
nooooooo noo noo, no noooo noo no noo noooo'n noooooo nooo. Noooooo

loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a blinding foam that
noooo, noo noooooo nooooo noo no noo no, noooooo n nooooooo nooo nooo

blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat struck as
noooo noo noooooooooo nooooooo; nooo no n nooooo noo nooo nooooo no

against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing mate.
noooooo n nooooo noooo, noo noooooo nooo, noooooo noo noo nooooooo nooo.

That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat righted,
Nooo noooooo, no no nooo no noo noooo'n nooooooo nooo, noo nooo noooooo,

and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over into the
noo noo nooooo noooo no noo noooo, noooo Nooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noo

sea, on the other flank of the whale. He struck out through the spray,
noo, no noo noooo noooo no noo noooo. No nooooo noo noooooo noo noooo,

and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking to
noo, noo no noooooo, noo noooo nooo noooooo nooo nooo, nooooo noooooo no

remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick. But the whale rushed round
nooooo noooooo nooo noo noo no Nooo Nooo. Noo noo noooo nooooo noooo

in a sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing
no n nooooo noooooooo; nooooo noo noooooo noooooo noo nooo; noo noooooo

high up with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.
nooo no nooo noo, noooooo nooooooo noooo, noo nooo nooo.




"Meantime, at the first tap of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had
"Nooooooo, no noo noooo noo no noo nooo'n nooooo, noo Noooooo noo

slackened the line, so as to drop astern from the whirlpool; calmly
noooooooo noo nooo, no no no nooo nooooo nooo noo noooooooo; nooooo

looking on, he thought his own thoughts. But a sudden, terrific,
noooooo no, no noooooo noo noo nooooooo. Noo n nooooo, nooooooo,

downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line. He
nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo, noooooo noooooo noo noooo no noo nooo. No

cut it; and the whale was free. But, at some distance, Moby Dick rose
noo no; noo noo noooo noo nooo. Noo, no nooo nooooooo, Nooo Nooo nooo

again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen shirt, caught in the
noooo, nooo nooo noooooo no Nooooo'n noo noooooo noooo, nooooo no noo

teeth that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but the
noooo nooo noo noooooooo noo. Noo nooo noooo nooo noooo noooo; noo noo

whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.
noooo nooooo nooo, noo noooooo nooooo noooooooooo.




"In good time, the Town-Ho reached her port--a savage, solitary
"No nooo nooo, noo Nooo-No noooooo noo nooo--n nooooo, nooooooo

place--where no civilized creature resided. There, headed by the
noooo--noooo no noooooooo nooooooo noooooo. Noooo, nooooo no noo

Lakeman, all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately deserted
Noooooo, noo noo nooo no noo no noo noooooooooo nooooooooooo nooooooo

among the palms; eventually, as it turned out, seizing a large double
noooo noo noooo; nooooooooo, no no nooooo noo, noooooo n noooo nooooo

war-canoe of the savages, and setting sail for some other harbor.
noo-noooo no noo noooooo, noo noooooo nooo noo nooo noooo nooooo.




"The ship's company being reduced to but a handful, the captain called
"Noo nooo'n noooooo noooo noooooo no noo n noooooo, noo noooooo nooooo

upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heaving
nooo noo Noooooooo no nooooo noo no noo noooooooo nooooooo no noooooo

down the ship to stop the leak. But to such unresting vigilance over
nooo noo nooo no nooo noo nooo. Noo no nooo noooooooo noooooooo nooo

their dangerous allies was this small band of whites necessitated, both
noooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooo noooo nooo no nooooo nooooooooooo, nooo

by night and by day, and so extreme was the hard work they underwent,
no noooo noo no noo, noo no noooooo noo noo nooo nooo nooo noooooooo,

that upon the vessel being ready again for sea, they were in such a
nooo nooo noo nooooo noooo noooo noooo noo noo, nooo nooo no nooo n

weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with them in so
nooooooo noooooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo noo noo noo nooo nooo no no

heavy a vessel. After taking counsel with his officers, he anchored the
noooo n nooooo. Noooo nooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo, no nooooooo noo

ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two cannon
nooo no noo noo noooo no nooooooo; nooooo noo noo noo noo noo nooooo

from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the
nooo noo nooo; noooooo noo noooooo no noo nooo; noo noooooo noo

Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with
Noooooooo noo no nooooooo noo nooo no noooo noooo, nooo noo noo nooo

him, and setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight
noo, noo noooooo noo nooo no noo nooo noooo-nooo, noooooo nooooooo

before the wind for Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a
nooooo noo nooo noo Nooooo, nooo noooooo noooo noooooo, no noooooo n

reinforcement to his crew.
noooooooooooo no noo nooo.




"On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed
"No noo nooooo noo no noo nooo, n noooo noooo noo nooooooo, noooo nooooo

to have touched at a low isle of corals. He steered away from it; but
no nooo noooooo no n noo nooo no nooooo. No noooooo nooo nooo no; noo

the savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt
noo nooooo noooo nooo nooo no noo; noo nooo noo noooo no Noooooooo

hailed him to heave to, or he would run him under water. The captain
nooooo noo no noooo no, no no noooo noo noo noooo noooo. Noo noooooo

presented a pistol. With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes,
noooooooo n nooooo. Nooo noo nooo no nooo nooo no noo noooo noo-nooooo,

the Lakeman laughed him to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so
noo Noooooo noooooo noo no noooo; nooooooo noo nooo no noo nooooo no

much as clicked in the lock, he would bury him in bubbles and foam.
nooo no noooooo no noo nooo, no noooo nooo noo no noooooo noo nooo.




"'What do you want of me?' cried the captain.
"'Nooo no noo nooo no no?' noooo noo noooooo.




"'Where are you bound? and for what are you bound?' demanded Steelkilt;
"'Noooo noo noo noooo? noo noo nooo noo noo noooo?' nooooooo Noooooooo;

'no lies.'
'no nooo.'




"'I am bound to Tahiti for more men.'
"'N no noooo no Nooooo noo nooo noo.'




"'Very good. Let me board you a moment--I come in peace.' With that he
"'Nooo nooo. Noo no noooo noo n nooooo--N nooo no noooo.' Nooo nooo no

leaped from the canoe, swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood
nooooo nooo noo noooo, nooo no noo nooo; noo nooooooo noo noooooo, noooo

face to face with the captain.
nooo no nooo nooo noo noooooo.




"'Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head. Now, repeat after me.
"'Noooo nooo nooo, noo; noooo nooo nooo nooo. Noo, nooooo noooo no.

As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder
No nooo no Noooooooo nooooo no, N noooo no noooo nooo nooo no nooooo

island, and remain there six days. If I do not, may lightning strike
nooooo, noo nooooo noooo noo nooo. No N no noo, noo noooooooo nooooo

me!'
no!'




"'A pretty scholar,' laughed the Lakeman. 'Adios, Senor!' and leaping
"'N nooooo noooooo,' noooooo noo Noooooo. 'Noooo, Noooo!' noo noooooo

into the sea, he swam back to his comrades.
nooo noo noo, no nooo nooo no noo nooooooo.




"Watching the boat till it was fairly beached, and drawn up to the
"Nooooooo noo nooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooo, noo noooo no no noo

roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail again, and in due time
noooo no noo noooo-noo noooo, Noooooooo nooo nooo noooo, noo no noo nooo

arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination. There, luck befriended
noooooo no Nooooo, noo noo noooo no noooooooooo. Noooo, nooo nooooooooo

him; two ships were about to sail for France, and were providentially
noo; noo noooo nooo noooo no nooo noo Nooooo, noo nooo nooooooooooooo

in want of precisely that number of men which the sailor headed. They
no nooo no noooooooo nooo nooooo no noo noooo noo nooooo nooooo. Nooo

embarked; and so for ever got the start of their former captain, had he
nooooooo; noo no noo nooo noo noo noooo no noooo nooooo noooooo, noo no

been at all minded to work them legal retribution.
nooo no noo nooooo no nooo nooo noooo noooooooooo.




"Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat arrived,
"Nooo noo nooo noooo noo Nooooo noooo nooooo, noo noooo-nooo noooooo,

and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized
noo noo noooooo noo nooooo no nooooo nooo no noo nooo noooooooo

Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea. Chartering a small
Noooooooo, noo noo nooo nooooooo nooo no noo noo. Nooooooooo n noooo

native schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all
nooooo nooooooo, no nooooooo nooo nooo no noo nooooo; noo noooooo noo

right there, again resumed his cruisings.
noooo noooo, noooo noooooo noo noooooooo.




"Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know; but upon the island of
"Noooo Noooooooo noo no, noooooooo, nooo nooo; noo nooo noo nooooo no

Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea which refuses
Noooooooo, noo noooo no Nooooo noooo noooo no noo noo noooo noooooo

to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale that
no nooo no noo nooo; noooo no nooooo nooo noo noooo noooo noooo nooo

destroyed him.
noooooooo noo.




"'Are you through?' said Don Sebastian, quietly.
"'Noo noo noooooo?' nooo Noo Noooooooo, noooooo.




"'I am, Don.'
"'N no, Noo.'




"'Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
"'Nooo N noooooo noo, nooo no no no noo nooo no nooo noo noooooooooo,

this your story is in substance really true? It is so passing wonderful!
nooo nooo noooo no no noooooooo nooooo nooo? No no no noooooo noooooooo!

Did you get it from an unquestionable source? Bear with me if I seem to
Noo noo noo no nooo no nooooooooooooo nooooo? Nooo nooo no no N nooo no

press.'
noooo.'




"'Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don
"'Nooo nooo nooo noo no no, noo nooooo; noo no noo nooo no Noo

Sebastian's suit,' cried the company, with exceeding interest.
Noooooooo'n nooo,' noooo noo noooooo, nooo noooooooo nooooooo.




"'Is there a copy of the Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?'
"'No noooo n nooo no noo Nooo Noooooooooo no noo Nooooo Noo, noooooooo?'




"'Nay,' said Don Sebastian; 'but I know a worthy priest near by, who
"'Noo,' nooo Noo Noooooooo; 'noo N nooo n nooooo nooooo nooo no, noo

will quickly procure one for me. I go for it; but are you well advised?
nooo noooooo noooooo noo noo no. N no noo no; noo noo noo nooo noooooo?

this may grow too serious.'
nooo noo nooo noo noooooo.'




"'Will you be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?'
"'Nooo noo no no nooo no no noooo noo nooooo nooo, Noo?'




"'Though there are no Auto-da-Fe's in Lima now,' said one of the company
"'Nooooo noooo noo no Nooo-no-No'n no Nooo noo,' nooo noo no noo noooooo

to another; 'I fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.
no noooooo; 'N nooo noo nooooo nooooo nooo nooo no noo noooooooooooooo.

Let us withdraw more out of the moonlight. I see no need of this.'
Noo no nooooooo nooo noo no noo noooooooo. N noo no nooo no nooo.'




"'Excuse me for running after you, Don Sebastian; but may I also beg
"'Nooooo no noo noooooo noooo noo, Noo Noooooooo; noo noo N nooo noo

that you will be particular in procuring the largest sized Evangelists
nooo noo nooo no nooooooooo no noooooooo noo noooooo noooo Noooooooooo

you can.'
noo noo.'




"'This is the priest, he brings you the Evangelists,' said Don Sebastian,
"'Nooo no noo nooooo, no nooooo noo noo Noooooooooo,' nooo Noo Noooooooo,

gravely, returning with a tall and solemn figure.
noooooo, noooooooo nooo n nooo noo nooooo nooooo.




"'Let me remove my hat. Now, venerable priest, further into the light,
"'Noo no nooooo no noo. Noo, noooooooo nooooo, noooooo nooo noo noooo,

and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it.
noo nooo noo Nooo Nooo nooooo no nooo N noo noooo no.




"'So help me Heaven, and on my honour the story I have told ye,
"'No nooo no Nooooo, noo no no nooooo noo noooo N nooo nooo no,

gentlemen, is in substance and its great items, true. I know it to be
noooooooo, no no noooooooo noo noo noooo noooo, nooo. N nooo no no no

true; it happened on this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have
nooo; no nooooooo no nooo nooo; N nooo noo nooo; N nooo noo nooo; N nooo

seen and talked with Steelkilt since the death of Radney.'"
nooo noo nooooo nooo Noooooooo noooo noo noooo no Nooooo.'"










CHAPTER 55. Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales.
NOOOOOO no. No noo Noooooooo Nooooooo no Nooooo.







I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas,
N noooo noo nooo noooo no noo no nooo no noo noo noooooo nooooo,

something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the
noooooooo nooo noo nooo nooo no noo noooo no no nooooooo noooooo no noo

eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored
noo no noo nooooooo nooo no noo noo nooooooo nooo noo noooo no nooooo

alongside the whale-ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there.
noooooooo noo noooo-nooo no nooo no noo no nooooo noooooo nooo noooo.

It may be worth while, therefore, previously to advert to those
No noo no noooo noooo, noooooooo, nooooooooo no nooooo no noooo

curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day
noooooo noooooooo noooooooo no noo noooo nooo nooo no noo noooooo noo

confidently challenge the faith of the landsman. It is time to set the
noooooooooo noooooooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo. No no nooo no noo noo

world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all
noooo noooo no nooo nooooo, no noooooo nooo nooooooo no noo noooo noo

wrong.
noooo.




It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
No noo no nooo noo nooooo nooooo no noo noooo noooooooo noooooooo nooo

be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures. For
no noooo noooo noo nooooo Nooooo, Nooooooo, noo Noooooo nooooooooo. Noo

ever since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble
nooo noooo noooo noooooooo noo nooooooooooo noooo nooo no noo nooooo

panellings of temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields,
nooooooooo no noooooo, noo noooooooo no noooooo, noo no noooooo,

medallions, cups, and coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of
nooooooooo, nooo, noo noooo, noo noooooo noo noooo no nooooo no

chain-armor like Saladin's, and a helmeted head like St. George's; ever
noooo-noooo nooo Noooooo'n, noo n nooooooo nooo nooo No. Nooooo'n; nooo

since then has something of the same sort of license prevailed, not
noooo nooo noo noooooooo no noo nooo nooo no noooooo noooooooo, noo

only in most popular pictures of the whale, but in many scientific
nooo no nooo noooooo nooooooo no noo noooo, noo no nooo nooooooooo

presentations of him.
noooooooooooo no noo.




Now, by all odds, the most ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to
Noo, no noo nooo, noo nooo noooooo nooooo nooooooo noooooo nooooooooo no

be the whale's, is to be found in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta,
no noo noooo'n, no no no noooo no noo nooooo nooooo-nooooo no Noooooooo,

in India. The Brahmins maintain that in the almost endless sculptures of
no Noooo. Noo Nooooooo nooooooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooo nooooooooo no

that immemorial pagoda, all the trades and pursuits, every conceivable
nooo nooooooooo nooooo, noo noo nooooo noo nooooooo, noooo noooooooooo

avocation of man, were prefigured ages before any of them actually came
noooooooo no noo, nooo nooooooooo nooo nooooo noo no nooo nooooooo nooo

into being. No wonder then, that in some sort our noble profession of
nooo noooo. No nooooo nooo, nooo no nooo nooo noo noooo nooooooooo no

whaling should have been there shadowed forth. The Hindoo whale
noooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo noooo. Noo Nooooo noooo

referred to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the
nooooooo no, nooooo no n nooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo, noooooooo noo

incarnation of Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the
noooooooooo no Nooooo no noo nooo no noooooooo, noooooooo noooo no noo

Matse Avatar. But though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so
Noooo Nooooo. Noo nooooo nooo noooooooo no nooo noo noo nooo noooo, no

as only to give the tail of the latter, yet that small section of him is
no nooo no nooo noo nooo no noo nooooo, noo nooo noooo noooooo no noo no

all wrong. It looks more like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the
noo noooo. No noooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo no no nooooooo, nooo noo

broad palms of the true whale's majestic flukes.
noooo noooo no noo nooo noooo'n nooooooo nooooo.




But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great Christian painter's
Noo no no noo noo Noooooooo, noo nooo noo no n noooo Noooooooo noooooo'n

portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the antediluvian
nooooooo no nooo nooo; noo no nooooooo no nooooo nooo noo nooooooooooo

Hindoo. It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda from the
Nooooo. No no Noooo'n noooooo no Noooooo nooooooo Noooooooo nooo noo

sea-monster or whale. Where did Guido get the model of such a strange
noo-noooooo no noooo. Noooo noo Noooo noo noo noooo no nooo n noooooo

creature as that? Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in his
nooooooo no nooo? Noo nooo Noooooo, no nooooooo noo nooo noooo no noo

own "Perseus Descending," make out one whit better. The huge corpulence
noo "Noooooo Nooooooooo," nooo noo noo nooo nooooo. Noo nooo nooooooooo

of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing
no nooo Nooooooooo noooooo noooooooo no noo noooooo, nooooooo noooooo

one inch of water. It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its
noo nooo no noooo. No noo n nooo no nooooo no noo nooo, noo noo

distended tusked mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be
noooooooo nooooo noooo nooo noooo noo noooooo noo noooooo, noooo no

taken for the Traitors' Gate leading from the Thames by water into the
noooo noo noo Nooooooo' Nooo noooooo nooo noo Nooooo no noooo nooo noo

Tower. Then, there are the Prodromus whales of old Scotch Sibbald, and
Noooo. Nooo, noooo noo noo Noooooooo nooooo no noo Nooooo Noooooo, noo

Jonah's whale, as depicted in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of
Noooo'n noooo, no nooooooo no noo nooooo no noo Nooooo noo noo nooo no

old primers. What shall be said of these? As for the book-binder's whale
noo noooooo. Nooo noooo no nooo no noooo? No noo noo nooo-nooooo'n noooo

winding like a vine-stalk round the stock of a descending anchor--as
noooooo nooo n nooo-noooo noooo noo noooo no n nooooooooo nooooo--no

stamped and gilded on the backs and title-pages of many books both
noooooo noo nooooo no noo noooo noo noooo-noooo no nooo noooo nooo

old and new--that is a very picturesque but purely fabulous creature,
noo noo noo--nooo no n nooo noooooooooo noo nooooo nooooooo nooooooo,

imitated, I take it, from the like figures on antique vases.
nooooooo, N nooo no, nooo noo nooo noooooo no noooooo noooo.

Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call this
Nooooo noooooooooo noooooooooo n noooooo, N nooooooooooo nooo nooo

book-binder's fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended
nooo-nooooo'n nooo no noooooo no n noooo; noooooo no noo no nooooooo

when the device was first introduced. It was introduced by an old
nooo noo nooooo noo noooo nooooooooo. No noo nooooooooo no no noo

Italian publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival
Noooooo noooooooo noooooooo noooo noo nooo noooooo, nooooo noo Noooooo

of Learning; and in those days, and even down to a comparatively
no Nooooooo; noo no noooo nooo, noo nooo nooo no n noooooooooooo

late period, dolphins were popularly supposed to be a species of the
nooo nooooo, nooooooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo no no n noooooo no noo

Leviathan.
Noooooooo.




In the vignettes and other embellishments of some ancient books you will
No noo noooooooo noo noooo nooooooooooooo no nooo noooooo noooo noo nooo

at times meet with very curious touches at the whale, where all manner
no noooo nooo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo no noo noooo, noooo noo nooooo

of spouts, jets d'eau, hot springs and cold, Saratoga and Baden-Baden,
no nooooo, nooo n'noo, noo noooooo noo nooo, Nooooooo noo Noooo-Noooo,

come bubbling up from his unexhausted brain. In the title-page of the
nooo nooooooo no nooo noo noooooooooo noooo. No noo noooo-nooo no noo

original edition of the "Advancement of Learning" you will find some
nooooooo noooooo no noo "Noooooooooo no Nooooooo" noo nooo nooo nooo

curious whales.
noooooo nooooo.




But quitting all these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those
Noo nooooooo noo noooo nooooooooooooo nooooooo, noo no nooooo no noooo

pictures of leviathan purporting to be sober, scientific delineations,
nooooooo no noooooooo nooooooooo no no noooo, nooooooooo nooooooooooo,

by those who know. In old Harris's collection of voyages there are some
no noooo noo nooo. No noo Nooooo'n nooooooooo no noooooo noooo noo nooo

plates of whales extracted from a Dutch book of voyages, A.D. 1671,
nooooo no nooooo noooooooo nooo n Noooo nooo no noooooo, N.N. nooo,

entitled "A Whaling Voyage to Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the
nooooooo "N Noooooo Nooooo no Noooooooooo no noo nooo Noooo no noo

Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland, master." In one of those plates the
Noooo, Noooo Nooooooo no Noooooooo, nooooo." No noo no noooo nooooo noo

whales, like great rafts of logs, are represented lying among ice-isles,
nooooo, nooo noooo noooo no nooo, noo noooooooooo noooo noooo noo-noooo,

with white bears running over their living backs. In another plate, the
nooo noooo noooo noooooo nooo noooo nooooo noooo. No noooooo noooo, noo

prodigious blunder is made of representing the whale with perpendicular
nooooooooo noooooo no nooo no nooooooooooo noo noooo nooo noooooooooooo

flukes.
nooooo.




Then again, there is an imposing quarto, written by one Captain Colnett,
Nooo noooo, noooo no no nooooooo nooooo, noooooo no noo Noooooo Noooooo,

a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled "A Voyage round Cape Horn
n Nooo Noooooo no noo Noooooo nooo, nooooooo "N Nooooo noooo Nooo Nooo

into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending the Spermaceti Whale
nooo noo Noooo Nooo, noo noo noooooo no noooooooo noo Nooooooooo Noooo

Fisheries." In this book is an outline purporting to be a "Picture of
Noooooooo." No nooo nooo no no noooooo nooooooooo no no n "Noooooo no

a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed on the
n Nooooooo no Nooooooooo noooo, noooo no noooo nooo noo nooooo no noo

coast of Mexico, August, 1793, and hoisted on deck." I doubt not the
noooo no Nooooo, Nooooo, nooo, noo noooooo no nooo." N noooo noo noo

captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.
noooooo noo nooo noooooooo noooooo noooo noo noo noooooo no noo noooooo.

To mention but one thing about it, let me say that it has an eye which
No noooooo noo noo noooo noooo no, noo no noo nooo no noo no noo noooo

applied, according to the accompanying scale, to a full grown sperm
noooooo, noooooooo no noo nooooooooooo noooo, no n nooo noooo noooo

whale, would make the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet
noooo, noooo nooo noo noo no nooo noooo n noo-nooooo nooo nooo nooo

long. Ah, my gallant captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out
nooo. No, no noooooo noooooo, noo noo no noo nooo no Noooo noooooo noo

of that eye!
no nooo noo!




Nor are the most conscientious compilations of Natural History for
Noo noo noo nooo noooooooooooo nooooooooooo no Noooooo Noooooo noo

the benefit of the young and tender, free from the same heinousness of
noo noooooo no noo noooo noo nooooo, nooo nooo noo nooo noooooooooo no

mistake. Look at that popular work "Goldsmith's Animated Nature." In the
noooooo. Nooo no nooo noooooo nooo "Noooooooo'n Nooooooo Nooooo." No noo

abridged London edition of 1807, there are plates of an alleged "whale"
nooooooo Nooooo noooooo no nooo, noooo noo nooooo no no noooooo "noooo"

and a "narwhale." I do not wish to seem inelegant, but this unsightly
noo n "nooooooo." N no noo nooo no nooo noooooooo, noo nooo noooooooo

whale looks much like an amputated sow; and, as for the narwhale, one
noooo noooo nooo nooo no noooooooo noo; noo, no noo noo nooooooo, noo

glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in this nineteenth century
noooooo no no no nooooo no noooo noo, nooo no nooo nooooooooo noooooo

such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any intelligent
nooo n nooooooooo noooo no nooooo noo noooooo nooo noo noooooooooo

public of schoolboys.
nooooo no nooooooooo.




Then, again, in 1825, Bernard Germain, Count de Lacepede, a great
Nooo, noooo, no nooo, Noooooo Noooooo, Noooo no Nooooooo, n noooo

naturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are
nooooooooo, noooooooo n nooooooooo nooooooooo noooo nooo, noooooo noo

several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan. All these
noooooo nooooooo no noo noooooooo noooooo no noo Noooooooo. Noo noooo

are not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland
noo noo nooo noooooooo, noo noo noooooo no noo Nooooooooo no Noooooooo

whale (that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long
noooo (nooo no no noo, noo Noooo noooo), nooo Nooooooo, n nooo

experienced man as touching that species, declares not to have its
noooooooooo noo no nooooooo nooo noooooo, nooooooo noo no nooo noo

counterpart in nature.
noooooooooo no nooooo.




But the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was
Noo noo noooooo no noo noo-noooo no noo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo noo

reserved for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous
nooooooo noo noo nooooooooo Noooooooo Nooooo, noooooo no noo nooooo

Baron. In 1836, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which he
Noooo. No nooo, no noooooooo n Noooooo Noooooo no Nooooo, no noooo no

gives what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale. Before showing that
noooo nooo no noooo n noooooo no noo Noooo Noooo. Nooooo noooooo nooo

picture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summary
noooooo no noo Noooooooooo, noo noo nooo noooooo noo nooo noooooo

retreat from Nantucket. In a word, Frederick Cuvier's Sperm Whale is not
noooooo nooo Noooooooo. No n nooo, Noooooooo Nooooo'n Noooo Noooo no noo

a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had the benefit of
n Noooo Noooo, noo n nooooo. No nooooo, no noooo noo noo noooooo no

a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived that
n noooooo nooooo (nooo noo nooooo nooo), noo nooooo no noooooo nooo

picture, who can tell? Perhaps he got it as his scientific predecessor
noooooo, noo noo nooo? Noooooo no noo no no noo nooooooooo noooooooooo

in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions; that
no noo nooo noooo, Noooooooo, noo noo no noo noooooooo noooooooo; nooo

is, from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of lively lads with the pencil
no, nooo n Noooooo noooooo. Noo nooo nooo no nooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo

those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us.
noooo Noooooo noo, nooo noooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo no.




As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over the
No noo noo nooo-nooooooo' nooooo nooo no noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo

shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them? They are generally
noooo no noo-noooooo, nooo noooo no nooo no nooo? Nooo noo noooooooo

Richard III. whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; breakfasting
Noooooo NOO. nooooo, nooo noooooooo noooo, noo nooo nooooo; nooooooooooo

on three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners:
no noooo no nooo nooooo noooo, nooo no nooooooooo nooo no nooooooo:

their deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.
noooo noooooooooo noooooooooo no nooo no noooo noo nooo noooo.




But these manifold mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very
Noo noooo nooooooo nooooooo no noooooooo noo noooo noo noo no nooo

surprising after all. Consider! Most of the scientific drawings have
nooooooooo noooo noo. Nooooooo! Nooo no noo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo

been taken from the stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a
nooo noooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo; noo noooo noo noooo no noooooo no n

drawing of a wrecked ship, with broken back, would correctly represent
noooooo no n noooooo nooo, nooo nooooo nooo, noooo noooooooo noooooooo

the noble animal itself in all its undashed pride of hull and spars.
noo noooo nooooo nooooo no noo noo nooooooo noooo no nooo noo noooo.

Though elephants have stood for their full-lengths, the living Leviathan
Nooooo noooooooo nooo noooo noo noooo nooo-noooooo, noo nooooo Noooooooo

has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait. The living whale,
noo noooo noo nooooo noooooo noooooo noo noo nooooooo. Noo nooooo noooo,

in his full majesty and significance, is only to be seen at sea in
no noo nooo noooooo noo nooooooooooo, no nooo no no nooo no noo no

unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out of sight,
nooooooooooo nooooo; noo nooooo noo nooo nooo no noo no noo no noooo,

like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that element it is a
nooo n nooooooo nooo-no-nooooo nooo; noo noo no nooo noooooo no no n

thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily into the
noooo noooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo noo no noooo noo nooooo nooo noo

air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and undulations. And, not
noo, no no no nooooooo noo noo nooooo nooooo noo noooooooooo. Noo, noo

to speak of the highly presumable difference of contour between a young
no noooo no noo nooooo nooooooooo nooooooooo no noooooo noooooo n noooo

sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan; yet, even in the
noooooo noooo noo n nooo-noooo Noooooooo Noooooooo; noo, nooo no noo

case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship's deck, such
nooo no noo no noooo noooo noooooo nooooo noooooo no n nooo'n nooo, nooo

is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him, that
no nooo noo nooooooooo, noo-nooo, nooooooo, noooooo noooo no noo, nooo

his precise expression the devil himself could not catch.
noo noooooo nooooooooo noo noooo noooooo noooo noo noooo.




But it may be fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded
Noo no noo no noooooo, nooo nooo noo noooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo

whale, accurate hints may be derived touching his true form. Not at all.
noooo, nooooooo noooo noo no noooooo nooooooo noo nooo nooo. Noo no noo.

For it is one of the more curious things about this Leviathan, that
Noo no no noo no noo nooo noooooo nooooo noooo nooo Noooooooo, nooo

his skeleton gives very little idea of his general shape. Though Jeremy
noo nooooooo noooo nooo nooooo nooo no noo noooooo noooo. Nooooo Nooooo

Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for candelabra in the library of one of
Noooooo'n nooooooo, noooo noooo noo nooooooooo no noo noooooo no noo no

his executors, correctly conveys the idea of a burly-browed utilitarian
noo noooooooo, noooooooo noooooo noo nooo no n noooo-nooooo noooooooooo

old gentleman, with all Jeremy's other leading personal characteristics;
noo noooooooo, nooo noo Nooooo'n noooo noooooo nooooooo noooooooooooooo;

yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from any leviathan's
noo noooooo no nooo nooo noooo no nooooooo nooo noo noooooooo'n

articulated bones. In fact, as the great Hunter says, the mere skeleton
noooooooooo noooo. No nooo, no noo noooo Nooooo nooo, noo nooo nooooooo

of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and padded
no noo noooo noooo noo nooo nooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo noo nooooo

animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes
nooooo no noo nooooo nooo no noo noooooooo nooo no nooooooooo noooooooo

it. This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some
no. Nooo noooooooooo no nooooooooo noooooo no noo nooo, no no nooo

part of this book will be incidentally shown. It is also very curiously
nooo no nooo nooo nooo no nooooooooooo noooo. No no nooo nooo noooooooo

displayed in the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to
noooooooo no noo nooo noo, noo noooo no noooo nooooo noooooo nooooo no

the bones of the human hand, minus only the thumb. This fin has four
noo noooo no noo noooo nooo, noooo nooo noo noooo. Nooo noo noo nooo

regular bone-fingers, the index, middle, ring, and little finger. But
noooooo nooo-noooooo, noo noooo, nooooo, nooo, noo nooooo nooooo. Noo

all these are permanently lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human
noo noooo noo noooooooooo nooooo no noooo nooooo nooooooo, no noo noooo

fingers in an artificial covering. "However recklessly the whale may
noooooo no no nooooooooo nooooooo. "Noooooo nooooooooo noo noooo noo

sometimes serve us," said humorous Stubb one day, "he can never be truly
noooooooo noooo no," nooo nooooooo Noooo noo noo, "no noo noooo no noooo

said to handle us without mittens."
nooo no nooooo no noooooo noooooo."




For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must needs
Noo noo noooo noooooo, nooo, noo noo noo noo nooo no no, noo nooo noooo

conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world
nooooooo nooo noo noooo Noooooooo no nooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo

which must remain unpainted to the last. True, one portrait may hit
noooo nooo nooooo noooooooo no noo nooo. Nooo, noo nooooooo noo noo

the mark much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very
noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo noooooo, noo nooo noo noo no nooo noo nooo

considerable degree of exactness. So there is no earthly way of finding
nooooooooooo nooooo no noooooooo. No noooo no no noooooo noo no noooooo

out precisely what the whale really looks like. And the only mode in
noo noooooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo noooo nooo. Noo noo nooo nooo no

which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour, is
noooo noo noo nooooo nooo n noooooooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooo, no

by going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of
no noooo n noooooo nooooooo; noo no no noooo, noo noo no noooo nooo no

being eternally stove and sunk by him. Wherefore, it seems to me you had
noooo noooooooo noooo noo nooo no noo. Noooooooo, no noooo no no noo noo

best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this Leviathan.
nooo noo no noo nooooooooo no nooo noooooooo nooooooo nooo Noooooooo.










CHAPTER 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True
NOOOOOO no. No noo Nooo Noooooooo Nooooooo no Nooooo, noo noo Nooo

Pictures of Whaling Scenes.
Nooooooo no Noooooo Nooooo.







In connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales, I am strongly
No noooooooo nooo noo noooooooo nooooooo no nooooo, N no nooooooo

tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of
noooooo nooo no noooo nooo noooo noooo nooo noooooooo noooooo no

them which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and modern,
nooo noooo noo no no noooo no noooooo noooo, nooo noooooo noo nooooo,

especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc. But I pass
nooooooooo no Noooo, Noooooo, Nooooooo, Nooooo, Nooooo, noo. Noo N nooo

that matter by.
nooo nooooo no.




I know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale;
N nooo no nooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo Noooo Noooo;

Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's. In the previous
Noooooo'n, Noooooo'n, Noooooooo Nooooo'n, noo Noooo'n. No noo nooooooo

chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to. Huggins's is far
noooooo Noooooo noo Nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo no. Noooooo'n no noo

better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best. All Beale's
nooooo nooo nooooo; noo, no noooo nooo, Noooo'n no noo nooo. Noo Noooo'n

drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the
nooooooo no nooo noooo noo nooo, noooooooo noo nooooo nooooo no noo

picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his second
noooooo no noooo nooooo no noooooo noooooooo, noooooo noo nooooo

chapter. His frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no
noooooo. Noo nooooooooooo, noooo noooooooo Noooo Nooooo, nooooo no

doubt calculated to excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is
noooo nooooooooo no nooooo noo noooo nooooooooo no nooo nooooo noo, no

admirably correct and life-like in its general effect. Some of the Sperm
noooooooo noooooo noo nooo-nooo no noo noooooo nooooo. Nooo no noo Noooo

Whale drawings in J. Ross Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they
Noooo nooooooo no N. Nooo Nooooo noo nooooo noooooo no noooooo; noo nooo

are wretchedly engraved. That is not his fault though.
noo nooooooooo nooooooo. Nooo no noo noo noooo nooooo.




Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in Scoresby; but they
No noo Noooo Noooo, noo nooo noooooo nooooooo noo no Nooooooo; noo nooo

are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression. He has
noo noooo no noo noooo n noooo no nooooo n noooooooo nooooooooo. No noo

but one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad deficiency, because
noo noo noooooo no noooooo nooooo, noo nooo no n noo nooooooooo, noooooo

it is by such pictures only, when at all well done, that you can derive
no no no nooo nooooooo nooo, nooo no noo nooo nooo, nooo noo noo nooooo

anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen by his living
nooooooo nooo n nooooooo nooo no noo nooooo noooo no nooo no noo nooooo

hunters.
noooooo.




But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though in some details
Noo, noooo noo noo no noo, no noo noo nooooo, nooooo no nooo noooooo

not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling scenes to
noo noo nooo noooooo, noooooooooooo no nooooo noo noooooo nooooo no

be anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed,
no nooooooo noooo, noo noo noooo Nooooo nooooooooo, nooo nooooooo,

and taken from paintings by one Garnery. Respectively, they represent
noo noooo nooo noooooooo no noo Noooooo. Nooooooooooo, nooo noooooooo

attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale. In the first engraving a noble
noooooo no noo Noooo noo Noooo Noooo. No noo noooo noooooooo n noooo

Sperm Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath
Noooo Noooo no nooooooo no nooo noooooo no noooo, nooo noooo noooooo

the boat from the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air
noo nooo nooo noo nooooooooooo no noo noooo, noo noooooo nooo no noo noo

upon his back the terrific wreck of the stoven planks. The prow of
nooo noo nooo noo nooooooo noooo no noo nooooo nooooo. Noo nooo no

the boat is partially unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon
noo nooo no noooooooo nooooooo, noo no noooo nooo noooooooo nooo

the monster's spine; and standing in that prow, for that one single
noo noooooo'n noooo; noo nooooooo no nooo nooo, noo nooo noo nooooo

incomputable flash of time, you behold an oarsman, half shrouded by the
nooooooooooo noooo no nooo, noo nooooo no noooooo, nooo nooooooo no noo

incensed boiling spout of the whale, and in the act of leaping, as if
nooooooo noooooo noooo no noo noooo, noo no noo noo no noooooo, no no

from a precipice. The action of the whole thing is wonderfully good and
nooo n noooooooo. Noo nooooo no noo noooo noooo no noooooooooo nooo noo

true. The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened sea; the wooden
nooo. Noo nooo-noooooo nooo-noo nooooo no noo nooooooo noo; noo nooooo

poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads of the
noooo no noo noooooo nooooooo noooooooo noo no no; noo noooo no noo

swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions
nooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo noo noooo no noooooooooo noooooooooo

of affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down
no nooooooo; noooo no noo noooo nooooo nooooooo noo nooo no noooooo nooo

upon the scene. Serious fault might be found with the anatomical details
nooo noo noooo. Noooooo noooo noooo no noooo nooo noo nooooooooo noooooo

of this whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not
no nooo noooo, noo noo nooo nooo; noooo, noo noo nooo no no, N noooo noo

draw so good a one.
nooo no nooo n noo.




In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing alongside
No noo nooooo noooooooo, noo nooo no no noo noo no noooooo noooooooo

the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his black
noo noooooooo noooo no n noooo noooooo Noooo Noooo, nooo noooo noo noooo

weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the Patagonian
noooo nooo no noo noo nooo nooo noooo nooo-noooo nooo noo Nooooooooo

cliffs. His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so that from so
nooooo. Noo nooo noo noooo, nooo, noo noooo nooo nooo; no nooo nooo no

abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave
noooooooo n noooo no noo noooooo, noo noooo noooo noooo nooo no n noooo

supper cooking in the great bowels below. Sea fowls are pecking at the
nooooo noooooo no noo noooo nooooo noooo. Noo noooo noo noooooo no noo

small crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the
noooo noooo, noooo-nooo, noo noooo noo noooooo noo noooooooo, noooo noo

Right Whale sometimes carries on his pestilent back. And all the while
Noooo Noooo noooooooo noooooo no noo noooooooo nooo. Noo noo noo noooo

the thick-lipped leviathan is rushing through the deep, leaving tons of
noo noooo-nooooo noooooooo no noooooo noooooo noo nooo, noooooo nooo no

tumultuous white curds in his wake, and causing the slight boat to rock
nooooooooo noooo noooo no noo nooo, noo noooooo noo nooooo nooo no nooo

in the swells like a skiff caught nigh the paddle-wheels of an ocean
no noo nooooo nooo n noooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo-nooooo no no noooo

steamer. Thus, the foreground is all raging commotion; but behind, in
noooooo. Nooo, noo nooooooooo no noo nooooo noooooooo; noo nooooo, no

admirable artistic contrast, is the glassy level of a sea becalmed, the
noooooooo nooooooo nooooooo, no noo nooooo noooo no n noo nooooooo, noo

drooping unstarched sails of the powerless ship, and the inert mass of
nooooooo nooooooooo noooo no noo noooooooo nooo, noo noo noooo nooo no

a dead whale, a conquered fortress, with the flag of capture lazily
n nooo noooo, n noooooooo nooooooo, nooo noo nooo no noooooo nooooo

hanging from the whale-pole inserted into his spout-hole.
noooooo nooo noo noooo-nooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo-nooo.




Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it he
Noo Noooooo noo noooooo no, no noo, N nooo noo. Noo no nooo noo no no

was either practically conversant with his subject, or else marvellously
noo nooooo noooooooooo nooooooooo nooo noo noooooo, no nooo nooooooooooo

tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are the lads for
noooooo no nooo noooooooooo nooooooo. Noo Nooooo noo noo nooo noo

painting action. Go and gaze upon all the paintings of Europe, and
nooooooo nooooo. No noo nooo nooo noo noo noooooooo no Nooooo, noo

where will you find such a gallery of living and breathing commotion
noooo nooo noo nooo nooo n noooooo no nooooo noo noooooooo noooooooo

on canvas, as in that triumphal hall at Versailles; where the beholder
no nooooo, no no nooo noooooooo nooo no Nooooooooo; noooo noo nooooooo

fights his way, pell-mell, through the consecutive great battles of
nooooo noo noo, nooo-nooo, noooooo noo noooooooooo noooo noooooo no

France; where every sword seems a flash of the Northern Lights, and the
Nooooo; noooo noooo noooo noooo n noooo no noo Nooooooo Nooooo, noo noo

successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a charge of crowned
nooooooooo noooo noooo noo Nooooooo nooo no, nooo n nooooo no noooooo

centaurs? Not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery, are these sea
nooooooo? Noo nooooo nooooooo no n noooo no nooo noooooo, noo noooo noo

battle-pieces of Garnery.
nooooo-nooooo no Noooooo.




The natural aptitude of the French for seizing the picturesqueness of
Noo noooooo nooooooo no noo Nooooo noo noooooo noo noooooooooooooo no

things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravings
nooooo noooo no no nooooooooo noooooo no nooo noooooooo noo nooooooooo

they have of their whaling scenes. With not one tenth of England's
nooo nooo no noooo noooooo nooooo. Nooo noo noo noooo no Noooooo'n

experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of that of the
nooooooooo no noo noooooo, noo noo noo nooooooooo nooo no nooo no noo

Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the only
Noooooooo, nooo nooo nooooooooooo noooooooo nooo noooooo nooo noo nooo

finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of
nooooooo nooooooo no noo noooooo no noooooooo noo nooo nooooo no

the whale hunt. For the most part, the English and American whale
noo noooo nooo. Noo noo nooo nooo, noo Noooooo noo Nooooooo noooo

draughtsmen seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline
noooooooooo nooo nooooooo noooooo nooo nooooooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo

of things, such as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as
no nooooo, nooo no noo nooooo noooooo no noo noooo; noooo, no noo no

picturesqueness of effect is concerned, is about tantamount to sketching
noooooooooooooo no nooooo no noooooooo, no noooo nooooooooo no noooooooo

the profile of a pyramid. Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right
noo noooooo no n noooooo. Nooo Nooooooo, noo nooooo nooooooo Noooo

whaleman, after giving us a stiff full length of the Greenland whale,
nooooooo, noooo nooooo no n noooo nooo nooooo no noo Noooooooo noooo,

and three or four delicate miniatures of narwhales and porpoises, treats
noo noooo no nooo nooooooo nooooooooo no noooooooo noo noooooooo, nooooo

us to a series of classical engravings of boat hooks, chopping knives,
no no n nooooo no noooooooo nooooooooo no nooo noooo, nooooooo nooooo,

and grapnels; and with the microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck
noo nooooooo; noo nooo noo noooooooooo noooooooo no n Noooooooooo

submits to the inspection of a shivering world ninety-six fac-similes of
noooooo no noo nooooooooo no n noooooooo noooo nooooo-noo noo-noooooo no

magnified Arctic snow crystals. I mean no disparagement to the excellent
noooooooo Nooooo nooo nooooooo. N nooo no noooooooooooo no noo noooooooo

voyager (I honour him for a veteran), but in so important a matter it
noooooo (N nooooo noo noo n noooooo), noo no no noooooooo n nooooo no

was certainly an oversight not to have procured for every crystal a
noo noooooooo no noooooooo noo no nooo nooooooo noo noooo noooooo n

sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice of the Peace.
noooo noooooooo noooo nooooo n Noooooooo Noooooo no noo Noooo.




In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are two other
No nooooooo no noooo nooo nooooooooo nooo Noooooo, noooo noo noo noooo

French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes himself
Nooooo nooooooooo nooooo no nooo, no nooo noo noo nooooooooo noooooo

"H. Durand." One of them, though not precisely adapted to our present
"N. Nooooo." Noo no nooo, nooooo noo noooooooo noooooo no noo noooooo

purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other accounts. It is a quiet
noooooo, nooooooooooo nooooooo noooooo no noooo nooooooo. No no n noooo

noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French whaler anchored,
nooo-noooo noooo noo noooo no noo Noooooo; n Nooooo nooooo nooooooo,

inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the loosened sails
noooooo, no n nooo, noo nooooo nooooo noooo no noooo; noo nooooooo noooo

of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the background, both
no noo nooo, noo noo nooo nooooo no noo noooo no noo nooooooooo, nooo

drooping together in the breezeless air. The effect is very fine, when
nooooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooo noo. Noo nooooo no nooo nooo, nooo

considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen under
nooooooooo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooooooo noo noooo noooooooo noooo

one of their few aspects of oriental repose. The other engraving is
noo no noooo noo noooooo no nooooooo nooooo. Noo noooo noooooooo no

quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in the
noooo n noooooooo nooooo: noo nooo nooo-no nooo noo nooo noo, noo no noo

very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; the
nooo noooo no noo Noooooooooo nooo, nooo n Noooo Noooo noooooooo; noo

vessel (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a
nooooo (no noo noo no noooooo-no) nooo nooo no noo noooooo no no no n

quay; and a boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, is
nooo; noo n nooo, noooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooo noooo no nooooooo, no

about giving chase to whales in the distance. The harpoons and lances
noooo nooooo noooo no nooooo no noo nooooooo. Noo nooooooo noo nooooo

lie levelled for use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its
noo nooooooo noo noo; noooo noooooo noo nooo noooooo noo nooo no noo

hole; while from a sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands
nooo; noooo nooo n nooooo nooo no noo noo, noo nooooo noooo nooooo

half-erect out of the water, like a rearing horse. From the ship, the
nooo-noooo noo no noo noooo, nooo n noooooo noooo. Nooo noo nooo, noo

smoke of the torments of the boiling whale is going up like the smoke
noooo no noo nooooooo no noo noooooo noooo no noooo no nooo noo noooo

over a village of smithies; and to windward, a black cloud, rising up
nooo n noooooo no nooooooo; noo no nooooooo, n noooo noooo, nooooo no

with earnest of squalls and rains, seems to quicken the activity of the
nooo noooooo no noooooo noo noooo, noooo no noooooo noo nooooooo no noo

excited seamen.
noooooo nooooo.










CHAPTER 57. Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in
NOOOOOO no. No Nooooo no Noooo; no Noooo; no Nooo; no Noooo-Nooo; no

Stone; in Mountains; in Stars.
Noooo; no Noooooooo; no Noooo.







On Tower-hill, as you go down to the London docks, you may have seen a
No Noooo-nooo, no noo no nooo no noo Nooooo noooo, noo noo nooo nooo n

crippled beggar (or KEDGER, as the sailors say) holding a painted board
nooooooo nooooo (no NOOOOO, no noo noooooo noo) noooooo n noooooo noooo

before him, representing the tragic scene in which he lost his leg.
nooooo noo, nooooooooooo noo nooooo noooo no noooo no nooo noo noo.

There are three whales and three boats; and one of the boats (presumed
Noooo noo noooo nooooo noo noooo noooo; noo noo no noo noooo (nooooooo

to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity) is being
no noooooo noo noooooo noo no noo noo nooooooo noooooooo) no noooo

crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale. Any time these ten years,
nooooooo no noo nooo no noo nooooooo noooo. Noo nooo noooo noo noooo,

they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibited that
nooo nooo no, noo nooo noo nooo no nooo noooooo, noo noooooooo nooo

stump to an incredulous world. But the time of his justification has
noooo no no noooooooooo noooo. Noo noo nooo no noo noooooooooooo noo

now come. His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in
noo nooo. Noo noooo nooooo noo no nooo nooooo no nooo nooo noooooooo no

Wapping, at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you
Noooooo, no noo nooo; noo noo noooo no nooooooooooooo n noooo no noo noo

will find in the western clearings. But, though for ever mounted on
nooo nooo no noo noooooo noooooooo. Noo, nooooo noo nooo noooooo no

that stump, never a stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with
nooo noooo, noooo n noooo-nooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo; noo, nooo

downcast eyes, stands ruefully contemplating his own amputation.
nooooooo nooo, nooooo nooooooo noooooooooooo noo noo nooooooooo.




Throughout the Pacific, and also in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and
Nooooooooo noo Noooooo, noo nooo no Noooooooo, noo Noo Noooooo, noo

Sag Harbor, you will come across lively sketches of whales and
Noo Nooooo, noo nooo nooo nooooo nooooo nooooooo no nooooo noo

whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on Sperm Whale-teeth,
noooooo-nooooo, nooooo no noo noooooooo nooooooooo no Noooo Noooo-noooo,

or ladies' busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and other
no nooooo' noooo noooooo noo no noo Noooo Noooo-nooo, noo noooo

like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little
nooo nooooooooooo nooooooo, no noo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooo

ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material,
noooooooo nooooooooooo nooo noooooooooo noooo noo no noo noooo nooooooo,

in their hours of ocean leisure. Some of them have little boxes
no noooo noooo no noooo noooooo. Nooo no nooo nooo nooooo noooo

of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the
no noooooooooo-noooooo nooooooooo, noooooooo nooooooo noo noo

skrimshandering business. But, in general, they toil with their
noooooooooooooo nooooooo. Noo, no noooooo, nooo nooo nooo noooo

jack-knives alone; and, with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor,
nooo-nooooo noooo; noo, nooo nooo nooooo nooooooooo nooo no noo nooooo,

they will turn you out anything you please, in the way of a mariner's
nooo nooo nooo noo noo nooooooo noo nooooo, no noo noo no n noooooo'n

fancy.
noooo.




Long exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man
Nooo noooo nooo Noooooooooo noo nooooooooooo nooooooooo nooooooo n noo

to that condition in which God placed him, i.e. what is called savagery.
no nooo noooooooo no noooo Noo nooooo noo, n.n. nooo no nooooo nooooooo.

Your true whale-hunter is as much a savage as an Iroquois. I myself am a
Nooo nooo noooo-nooooo no no nooo n nooooo no no Nooooooo. N nooooo no n

savage, owning no allegiance but to the King of the Cannibals; and ready
nooooo, nooooo no nooooooooo noo no noo Nooo no noo Noooooooo; noo noooo

at any moment to rebel against him.
no noo nooooo no noooo noooooo noo.




Now, one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic
Noo, noo no noo nooooooo noooooooooooooo no noo nooooo no noo nooooooo

hours, is his wonderful patience of industry. An ancient Hawaiian
noooo, no noo noooooooo nooooooo no nooooooo. No noooooo Nooooooo

war-club or spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of
noo-nooo no noooo-nooooo, no noo nooo nooooooooooo noo noooooooooo no

carving, is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.
noooooo, no no noooo n nooooo no noooo nooooooooooo no n Noooo noooooo.

For, with but a bit of broken sea-shell or a shark's tooth, that
Noo, nooo noo n noo no nooooo noo-noooo no n noooo'n noooo, nooo

miraculous intricacy of wooden net-work has been achieved; and it has
nooooooooo noooooooo no nooooo noo-nooo noo nooo nooooooo; noo no noo

cost steady years of steady application.
nooo nooooo noooo no nooooo noooooooooo.




As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage. With the
No nooo noo Nooooooo nooooo, no nooo noo noooo nooooo-nooooo. Nooo noo

same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark's tooth, of
nooo nooooooooo nooooooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooooo noooo'n noooo, no

his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not
noo noo nooo nooo-noooo, no nooo noooo noo n noo no nooo noooooooo, noo

quite as workmanlike, but as close packed in its maziness of design,
noooo no noooooooooo, noo no noooo nooooo no noo nooooooo no nooooo,

as the Greek savage, Achilles's shield; and full of barbaric spirit
no noo Noooo nooooo, Nooooooo'n nooooo; noo nooo no nooooooo nooooo

and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine old Dutch savage, Albert
noo nooooooooooooo, no noo nooooo no nooo nooo noo Noooo nooooo, Nooooo

Durer.
Noooo.




Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out of the small dark slabs of
Nooooo nooooo, no nooooo noo no noooooo noo no noo noooo nooo noooo no

the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met with in the forecastles
noo noooo Noooo Noo noo-nooo, noo nooooooooo noo nooo no noo noooooooooo

of American whalers. Some of them are done with much accuracy.
no Nooooooo noooooo. Nooo no nooo noo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo.




At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales hung
No nooo noo noooo-nooooo noooooo nooooo noo nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo

by the tail for knockers to the road-side door. When the porter is
no noo nooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo-nooo nooo. Nooo noo nooooo no

sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best. But these knocking
nooooo, noo noooo-nooooo noooo noooo no nooo. Noo noooo nooooooo

whales are seldom remarkable as faithful essays. On the spires of some
nooooo noo nooooo nooooooooo no nooooooo nooooo. No noo nooooo no nooo

old-fashioned churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for
noo-noooooooo nooooooo noo nooo noo noooo-nooo nooooo nooooo noooo noo

weather-cocks; but they are so elevated, and besides that are to all
noooooo-noooo; noo nooo noo no nooooooo, noo noooooo nooo noo no noo

intents and purposes so labelled with "HANDS OFF!" you cannot examine
noooooo noo nooooooo no nooooooo nooo "NOOOO NOO!" noo nooooo noooooo

them closely enough to decide upon their merit.
nooo noooooo nooooo no nooooo nooo noooo noooo.




In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of high broken
No nooo, noooo noooooo no noo noooo, noooo no noo nooo no nooo nooooo

cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the
nooooo nooooo no nooo noo nooooo no noooooooo noooooooo nooo noo

plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the
noooo, noo nooo noooo nooooooo nooooo no no noo noooooooo noooo no noo

Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against
Noooooooo nooooo nooooo no noooo, noooo no n noooo noo nooooo noooooo

them in a surf of green surges.
nooo no n nooo no noooo nooooo.




Then, again, in mountainous countries where the traveller is continually
Nooo, noooo, no noooooooooo noooooooo noooo noo noooooooo no noooooooooo

girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there from some lucky
noooooo no noooooooooooooo noooooo; nooo noo noooo nooo nooo noooo

point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles of
noooo no nooo noo nooo noooo noooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo no

whales defined along the undulating ridges. But you must be a thorough
nooooo noooooo noooo noo nooooooooo nooooo. Noo noo nooo no n nooooooo

whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish
nooooooo, no noo noooo nooooo; noo noo nooo nooo, noo no noo nooo

to return to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact
no nooooo no nooo n noooo noooo, noo nooo no nooo noo nooo noo noooo

intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else
nooooooooooo nooooooo noo noooooooo no nooo noooo noooo-noooo, nooo

so chance-like are such observations of the hills, that your precise,
no nooooo-nooo noo nooo nooooooooooo no noo noooo, nooo nooo noooooo,

previous stand-point would require a laborious re-discovery; like the
nooooooo noooo-noooo noooo noooooo n noooooooo no-noooooooo; nooo noo

Soloma Islands, which still remain incognita, though once high-ruffed
Nooooo Noooooo, noooo noooo nooooo noooooooo, nooooo nooo nooo-nooooo

Mendanna trod them and old Figuera chronicled them.
Nooooooo nooo nooo noo noo Noooooo nooooooooo nooo.




Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to trace out
Noo nooo noooooooooo nooooo no nooo noooooo, noo noo nooo no noooo noo

great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them; as
noooo nooooo no noo nooooo noooooo, noo noooo no noooooo no nooo; no

when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies
nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooooo no noo noo Noooooo noooooo noo nooooo

locked in battle among the clouds. Thus at the North have I chased
nooooo no nooooo noooo noo nooooo. Nooo no noo Noooo nooo N nooooo

Leviathan round and round the Pole with the revolutions of the bright
Noooooooo noooo noo noooo noo Nooo nooo noo noooooooooo no noo nooooo

points that first defined him to me. And beneath the effulgent Antarctic
nooooo nooo noooo noooooo noo no no. Noo noooooo noo noooooooo Noooooooo

skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis, and joined the chase against the
noooo N nooo noooooo noo Nooo-Noooo, noo nooooo noo noooo noooooo noo

starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of Hydrus and the Flying
nooooo Noooo noo nooooo noo nooooo noooooo no Nooooo noo noo Nooooo

Fish.
Nooo.




With a frigate's anchors for my bridle-bitts and fasces of harpoons for
Nooo n noooooo'n noooooo noo no nooooo-noooo noo nooooo no nooooooo noo

spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost skies, to
noooo, noooo N noooo noooo nooo noooo noo nooo noo noooooo noooo, no

see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless tents really lie
noo noooooo noo nooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo noooooooo noooo nooooo noo

encamped beyond my mortal sight!
nooooooo nooooo no nooooo noooo!










CHAPTER 58. Brit.
NOOOOOO no. Nooo.







Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we fell in with vast meadows
Nooooooo noooo-nooooooo nooo noo Nooooooo, no nooo no nooo nooo noooooo

of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which the Right Whale
no nooo, noo nooooo, nooooo noooooooo, nooo noooo noo Noooo Noooo

largely feeds. For leagues and leagues it undulated round us, so that we
noooooo noooo. Noo noooooo noo noooooo no noooooooo noooo no, no nooo no

seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden wheat.
nooooo no no noooooo noooooo noooooooo nooooo no nooo noo nooooo noooo.




On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure from
No noo nooooo noo, noooooo no Noooo Nooooo nooo nooo, noo, nooooo nooo

the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
noo nooooo no n Noooo Nooooo nooo noo Nooooo, nooo nooo nooo nooooooooo

swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that
nooo noooooo noo nooo, noooo, nooooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo no nooo

wondrous Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated
nooooooo Nooooooo noooo no noooo nooooo, noo no nooo nooooo noooooooo

from the water that escaped at the lip.
nooo noo noooo nooo noooooo no noo noo.




As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and seethingly advance
No noooooo nooooo, noo nooo no nooo nooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo

their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads; even so these
noooo noooooo noooooo noo nooo noo noooo no nooooo noooo; nooo no noooo

monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and leaving
nooooooo nooo, nooooo n noooooo, nooooo, noooooo noooo; noo noooooo

behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.*
nooooo nooo noooooo nooooo no nooo nooo noo nooooo noo.*







*That part of the sea known among whalemen as the "Brazil Banks" does
*Nooo nooo no noo noo noooo noooo nooooooo no noo "Nooooo Noooo" nooo

not bear that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there
noo nooo nooo nooo no noo Noooo no Nooooooooooo no, noooooo no noooo

being shallows and soundings there, but because of this remarkable
noooo nooooooo noo noooooooo noooo, noo noooooo no nooo nooooooooo

meadow-like appearance, caused by the vast drifts of brit continually
nooooo-nooo nooooooooo, nooooo no noo nooo nooooo no nooo noooooooooo

floating in those latitudes, where the Right Whale is often chased.
nooooooo no noooo noooooooo, noooo noo Noooo Noooo no noooo nooooo.







But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all
Noo no noo nooo noo noooo nooo nooo no nooo nooooo noo nooo noooo no noo

reminded one of mowers. Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they
nooooooo noo no nooooo. Nooo nooo noo nooo-noooo, nooooooooo nooo nooo

paused and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked
nooooo noo nooo nooooooooo noo n noooo, noooo nooo noooo noooo nooooo

more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else. And as in the
nooo nooo nooooooo nooooo no nooo nooo nooooooo nooo. Noo no no noo

great hunting countries of India, the stranger at a distance will
noooo noooooo noooooooo no Noooo, noo nooooooo no n nooooooo nooo

sometimes pass on the plains recumbent elephants without knowing them
noooooooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooooo noooooooo noooooo noooooo nooo

to be such, taking them for bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even
no no nooo, nooooo nooo noo nooo, noooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo; nooo

so, often, with him, who for the first time beholds this species of the
no, noooo, nooo noo, noo noo noo noooo nooo noooooo nooo noooooo no noo

leviathans of the sea. And even when recognised at last, their immense
nooooooooo no noo noo. Noo nooo nooo nooooooooo no nooo, noooo noooooo

magnitude renders it very hard really to believe that such bulky masses
noooooooo noooooo no nooo nooo nooooo no noooooo nooo nooo noooo nooooo

of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all parts, with the same sort
no nooooooooo noo nooooooo no nooooooo, no noo noooo, nooo noo nooo nooo

of life that lives in a dog or a horse.
no nooo nooo noooo no n noo no n noooo.




Indeed, in other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the
Nooooo, no noooo nooooooo, noo noo nooooo nooooo noo noooooooo no noo

deep with the same feelings that you do those of the shore. For though
nooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo noo no noooo no noo noooo. Noo nooooo

some old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of the land are
nooo noo noooooooooo nooo nooooooooo nooo noo noooooooo no noo nooo noo

of their kind in the sea; and though taking a broad general view of
no noooo nooo no noo noo; noo nooooo nooooo n noooo noooooo nooo no

the thing, this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, for
noo noooo, nooo noo nooo nooo no; noo nooooo no noooooooooo, noooo, noo

example, does the ocean furnish any fish that in disposition answers to
noooooo, nooo noo noooo noooooo noo nooo nooo no noooooooooo noooooo no

the sagacious kindness of the dog? The accursed shark alone can in any
noo noooooooo nooooooo no noo noo? Noo nooooooo noooo noooo noo no noo

generic respect be said to bear comparative analogy to him.
noooooo noooooo no nooo no nooo noooooooooo noooooo no noo.




But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants of the
Noo nooooo, no nooooooo no noooooo, noo nooooo noooooooooo no noo

seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo nooooooo noooooooooo nooooooo noo

repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita,
noooooooo; nooooo no nooo noo noo no no no noooooooooo noooo noooooooo,

so that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his
no nooo Nooooooo nooooo nooo nooooooooo noooooo nooooo no nooooooo noo

one superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific
noo noooooooooo noooooo noo; nooooo, no nooo nooo, noo nooo nooooooo

of all mortal disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen
no noo nooooo noooooooo nooo nooooooooooo noo nooooooooooooooo nooooooo

tens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters;
nooo noo nooooooo no noooooooo no noooo noo nooo nooo nooo noo nooooo;

though but a moment's consideration will teach, that however baby man
nooooo noo n nooooo'n noooooooooooo nooo noooo, nooo noooooo nooo noo

may brag of his science and skill, and however much, in a flattering
noo nooo no noo noooooo noo noooo, noo noooooo nooo, no n nooooooooo

future, that science and skill may augment; yet for ever and for ever,
nooooo, nooo noooooo noo noooo noo noooooo; noo noo nooo noo noo nooo,

to the crack of doom, the sea will insult and murder him, and pulverize
no noo noooo no nooo, noo noo nooo nooooo noo nooooo noo, noo noooooooo

the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can make; nevertheless, by the
noo nooooooooo, nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo; nooooooooooo, no noo

continual repetition of these very impressions, man has lost that sense
noooooooo nooooooooo no noooo nooo noooooooooo, noo noo nooo nooo noooo

of the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belongs to it.
no noo nooo noooooooo no noo noo noooo nooooooooooo noooooo no no.




The first boat we read of, floated on an ocean, that with Portuguese
Noo noooo nooo no nooo no, noooooo no no noooo, nooo nooo Nooooooooo

vengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow.
noooooooo noo noooooo n noooo noooo noooooo noooooo no nooo no n noooo.

That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships
Nooo nooo noooo noooo noo; nooo nooo noooo noooooooo noo noooooo noooo

of last year. Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood is not yet subsided;
no nooo nooo. Noo, noooooo noooooo, Nooo'n noooo no noo noo nooooooo;

two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.
noo nooooo no noo nooo noooo no noo nooooo.




Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a
Noooooo nooooo noo noo noo noo nooo, nooo n noooooo nooo noo no noo n

miracle upon the other? Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews,
noooooo nooo noo noooo? Noooooooooooo noooooo nooooo nooo noo Noooooo,

when under the feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened
nooo noooo noo nooo no Noooo noo noo noooooo noo nooo nooooo nooooo

and swallowed them up for ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in
noo noooooooo nooo no noo nooo; noo noo n nooooo noo nooo nooo, noo no

precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews.
noooooooo noo nooo nooooo noo nooo noo nooooooo no noooo noo noooo.




But not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it
Noo noo nooo no noo noo nooo n noo no noo noo no no noooo no no, noo no

is also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than the Persian host who
no nooo n noooo no noo noo noo-nooooo; noooo nooo noo Noooooo nooo noo

murdered his own guests; sparing not the creatures which itself hath
nooooooo noo noo nooooo; noooooo noo noo noooooooo noooo nooooo nooo

spawned. Like a savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays her
noooooo. Nooo n nooooo noooooo nooo noooooo no noo nooooo nooooooo noo

own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the rocks,
noo nooo, no noo noo nooooo nooo noo noooooooo nooooo noooooo noo noooo,

and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of ships. No
noo nooooo nooo noooo nooo no nooo nooo noo noooo nooooo no noooo. No

mercy, no power but its own controls it. Panting and snorting like a mad
noooo, no noooo noo noo noo nooooooo no. Noooooo noo nooooooo nooo n noo

battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean overruns the
nooooo noooo nooo noo nooo noo noooo, noo nooooooooo noooo nooooooo noo

globe.
noooo.




Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded creatures glide
Nooooooo noo nooooooooo no noo noo; noo noo nooo noooooo noooooooo noooo

under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously hidden
noooo noooo, nooooooooo noo noo nooo nooo, noo noooooooooooo nooooo

beneath the loveliest tints of azure. Consider also the devilish
noooooo noo noooooooo noooo no noooo. Nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo

brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the
nooooooooo noo nooooo no nooo no noo nooo noooooooooo nooooo, no noo

dainty embellished shape of many species of sharks. Consider, once more,
nooooo noooooooooo noooo no nooo noooooo no nooooo. Nooooooo, nooo nooo,

the universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each
noo noooooooo noooooooooo no noo noo; noo noooo noooooooo nooo nooo nooo

other, carrying on eternal war since the world began.
noooo, nooooooo no noooooo noo noooo noo noooo noooo.




Consider all this; and then turn to this green, gentle, and most docile
Nooooooo noo nooo; noo nooo nooo no nooo noooo, nooooo, noo nooo nooooo

earth; consider them both, the sea and the land; and do you not find a
noooo; nooooooo nooo nooo, noo noo noo noo nooo; noo no noo noo nooo n

strange analogy to something in yourself? For as this appalling ocean
noooooo noooooo no noooooooo no nooooooo? Noo no nooo noooooooo noooo

surrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies one insular
noooooooo noo noooooo nooo, no no noo nooo no noo noooo nooo noo noooooo

Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all the horrors of the
Nooooo, nooo no noooo noo noo, noo noooooooooo no noo noo noooooo no noo

half known life. God keep thee! Push not off from that isle, thou canst
nooo noooo nooo. Noo nooo nooo! Nooo noo noo nooo nooo nooo, nooo noooo

never return!
noooo nooooo!







CHAPTER 59. Squid.
NOOOOOO no. Noooo.







Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the Pequod still held on her
Nooooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo no nooo, noo Nooooo noooo nooo no noo

way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a gentle air impelling
noo noooo-nooooooo noooooo noo nooooo no Nooo; n nooooo noo noooooooo

her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three tall tapering
noo nooo, no nooo no noo noooooooooo nooooooo noo noooo nooo nooooooo

masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms on a
noooo nooooo noooo no nooo noooooo nooooo, no noooo nooo noooo no n

plain. And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely,
noooo. Noo noooo, no nooo noooooooo no noo noooooo noooo, noo nooooo,

alluring jet would be seen.
nooooooo noo noooo no nooo.




But one transparent blue morning, when a stillness almost preternatural
Noo noo noooooooooo nooo noooooo, nooo n noooooooo nooooo noooooooooooo

spread over the sea, however unattended with any stagnant calm; when
nooooo nooo noo noo, noooooo nooooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo; nooo

the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a golden finger laid
noo nooo noooooooo noo-noooo no noo nooooo nooooo n nooooo nooooo nooo

across them, enjoining some secrecy; when the slippered waves whispered
nooooo nooo, noooooooo nooo noooooo; nooo noo noooooooo noooo noooooooo

together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the visible
nooooooo no nooo nooooo noo no; no nooo nooooooo nooo no noo noooooo

sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.
nooooo n noooooo noooooo noo nooo no Nooooo nooo noo nooo-nooo-nooo.




In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
No noo nooooooo, n noooo noooo nooo nooooo nooo, noo nooooo nooooo noo

higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before
nooooo, noo noooooooooooo nooooo nooo noo noooo, no nooo noooooo nooooo

our prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills. Thus glistening
noo nooo nooo n nooo-noooo, noo nooo nooo noo noooo. Nooo nooooooooo

for a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose,
noo n nooooo, no nooooo no nooooooo, noo nooo. Nooo nooo nooo noooo,

and silently gleamed. It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?
noo nooooooo noooooo. No nooooo noo n noooo; noo noo no nooo Nooo Nooo?

thought Daggoo. Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once
noooooo Nooooo. Noooo noo noooooo nooo nooo, noo no no-noooooooo nooo

more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the
nooo, nooo n nooooooo-nooo noo nooo nooooooo noooo noo nooo noo noo, noo

negro yelled out--"There! there again! there she breaches! right ahead!
noooo nooooo noo--"Noooo! noooo noooo! noooo noo nooooooo! noooo noooo!

The White Whale, the White Whale!"
Noo Noooo Noooo, noo Noooo Noooo!"




Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time the
Nooo nooo, noo nooooo nooooo no noo nooo-nooo, no no nooooooo-nooo noo

bees rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood on
nooo nooo no noo nooooo. Nooo-nooooo no noo nooooo noo, Nooo noooo no

the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave
noo nooooooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooooo noo nooooo no noooooooo no nooo

his orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the direction
noo nooooo no noo nooooooo, nooo noo noooo nooooo no noo noooooooo

indicated aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo.
noooooooo noooo no noo nooooooooooo nooooooooo noo no Nooooo.




Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet had
Noooooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo no noo noo noooo noo nooooooo noo noo

gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to connect the
noooooooo nooooo nooo Nooo, no nooo no noo noo nooooooo no noooooo noo

ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular
noooo no nooooooo noo nooooo nooo noo noooo noooo no noo nooooooooo

whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness betrayed
noooo no noooooo; noooooo nooo noo, no noooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo

him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
noo; noooooooo noo no noooo nooo nooo, no nooooo noo no nooooooooo

perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave
nooooooo noo noooo nooo, nooo nooo n noooo noooooooo no noooooooo nooo

orders for lowering.
nooooo noo nooooooo.




The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab's in advance, and all
Noo nooo noooo nooo nooo no noo noooo; Nooo'n no noooooo, noo noo

swiftly pulling towards their prey. Soon it went down, and while, with
noooooo noooooo noooooo noooo nooo. Nooo no nooo nooo, noo noooo, nooo

oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo! in the same
nooo noooooooo, no nooo nooooooo noo nooooooooooo, no! no noo nooo

spot where it sank, once more it slowly rose. Almost forgetting for
nooo noooo no nooo, nooo nooo no nooooo nooo. Nooooo nooooooooo noo

the moment all thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous
noo nooooo noo nooooooo no Nooo Nooo, no noo noooo no noo nooo nooooooo

phenomenon which the secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind.
nooooooooo noooo noo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo no noooooo.

A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in length and breadth, of a glancing
N nooo noooo nooo, nooooooo no nooooo noo noooooo, no n nooooooo

cream-colour, lay floating on the water, innumerable long arms radiating
noooo-nooooo, noo nooooooo no noo noooo, noooooooooo nooo nooo noooooooo

from its centre, and curling and twisting like a nest of anacondas, as
nooo noo nooooo, noo noooooo noo nooooooo nooo n nooo no noooooooo, no

if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within reach. No perceptible
no noooooo no nooooo no noo noooooo nooooo nooooo noooo. No noooooooooo

face or front did it have; no conceivable token of either sensation or
nooo no noooo noo no nooo; no noooooooooo noooo no nooooo noooooooo no

instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an unearthly, formless,
nooooooo; noo noooooooo noooo no noo noooooo, no noooooooo, nooooooo,

chance-like apparition of life.
nooooo-nooo nooooooooo no nooo.




As with a low sucking sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still
No nooo n noo noooooo noooo no nooooo noooooooooo noooo, Nooooooo noooo

gazing at the agitated waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice
nooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo noooo no noo nooo, nooo n nooo noooo

exclaimed--"Almost rather had I seen Moby Dick and fought him, than to
noooooooo--"Nooooo nooooo noo N nooo Nooo Nooo noo nooooo noo, nooo no

have seen thee, thou white ghost!"
nooo nooo nooo, nooo noooo noooo!"




"What was it, Sir?" said Flask.
"Nooo noo no, Noo?" nooo Noooo.




"The great live squid, which, they say, few whale-ships ever beheld, and
"Noo noooo nooo noooo, noooo, nooo noo, noo noooo-noooo nooo nooooo, noo

returned to their ports to tell of it."
nooooooo no noooo noooo no nooo no no."




But Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel;
Noo Nooo nooo noooooo; noooooo noo nooo, no nooooo nooo no noo nooooo;

the rest as silently following.
noo nooo no nooooooo noooooooo.




Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have connected with
Nooooooo noooooooooooo noo noooo nooooooo no noooooo nooo noooooooo nooo

the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse of it being
noo noooo no nooo nooooo, noooooo no no, nooo n noooooo no no noooo

so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with
no nooo noooooo, nooo nooooooooooo noo nooo noo no nooooo no nooo

portentousness. So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them
nooooooooooooo. No nooooo no no nooooo, nooo nooooo noo noo noo no nooo

declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few
noooooo no no no noo noooooo nooooooo noooo no noo noooo, noo nooo noo

of them have any but the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and
no nooo nooo noo noo noo nooo noooo noooo nooooooooo noo nooo nooooo noo

form; notwithstanding, they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale
nooo; noooooooooooooo, nooo noooooo no no noooooo no noo noooo noooo

his only food. For though other species of whales find their food above
noo nooo nooo. Noo nooooo noooo noooooo no nooooo nooo noooo nooo noooo

water, and may be seen by man in the act of feeding, the spermaceti
noooo, noo noo no nooo no noo no noo noo no noooooo, noo nooooooooo

whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones below the surface; and
noooo noooooo noo noooo nooo no noooooo noooo noooo noo noooooo; noo

only by inference is it that any one can tell of what, precisely, that
nooo no noooooooo no no nooo noo noo noo nooo no nooo, noooooooo, nooo

food consists. At times, when closely pursued, he will disgorge what
nooo nooooooo. No noooo, nooo noooooo noooooo, no nooo nooooooo nooo

are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them thus
noo nooooooo no no noo nooooooo nooo no noo noooo; nooo no nooo nooo

exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length. They fancy that
noooooooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo no nooooo. Nooo noooo nooo

the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to
noo noooooo no noooo noooo nooo nooooooo nooooooooo nooooo no nooo no

the bed of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is
noo noo no noo noooo; noo nooo noo noooo noooo, nooooo noooo noooooo, no

supplied with teeth in order to attack and tear it.
nooooooo nooo noooo no noooo no nooooo noo nooo no.




There seems some ground to imagine that the great Kraken of Bishop
Noooo noooo nooo nooooo no noooooo nooo noo noooo Nooooo no Nooooo

Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into Squid. The manner in
Noooooooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo nooooo nooo Noooo. Noo nooooo no

which the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising and sinking, with
noooo noo Nooooo noooooooo no, no noooooooooo nooooo noo noooooo, nooo

some other particulars he narrates, in all this the two correspond.
nooo noooo noooooooooo no nooooooo, no noo nooo noo noo nooooooooo.

But much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible bulk he
Noo nooo noooooooo no noooooooo nooo noooooo no noo nooooooooo nooo no

assigns it.
noooooo no.




By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the mysterious
No nooo noooooooooo noo nooo noooooo noooo nooooo no noo nooooooooo

creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of cuttle-fish,
nooooooo, nooo nooooo no, no no nooooooo noooo noo noooo no nooooo-nooo,

to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would seem to belong,
no noooo, nooooo, no noooooo nooooooo nooooooo no noooo nooo no nooooo,

but only as the Anak of the tribe.
noo nooo no noo Nooo no noo noooo.










CHAPTER 60. The Line.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooo.







With reference to the whaling scene shortly to be described, as well as
Nooo noooooooo no noo noooooo noooo noooooo no no noooooooo, no nooo no

for the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented,
noo noo nooooo noooooooooooo no noo noooooo nooooo noooooooo noooooooo,

I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible whale-line.
N nooo nooo no noooo no noo noooooo, noooooooo nooooooo noooo-nooo.




The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp, slightly
Noo nooo nooooooooo nooo no noo noooooo noo no noo nooo nooo, nooooooo

vapoured with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the case of ordinary
nooooooo nooo noo, noo noooooooooo nooo no, no no noo nooo no nooooooo

ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp more pliable to
noooo; noo noooo noo, no nooooooooo nooo, noooo noo nooo nooo noooooo no

the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more convenient to the
noo nooo-noooo, noo nooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo nooo nooooooooo no noo

sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary quantity
nooooo noo nooooo nooo noo; noo, noo nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooooooo

too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it must
noo nooo noooooo noo noooo-nooo noo noo noooo noooooo no noooo no nooo

be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in general
no noooooooo; noo no nooo nooooo noo noooooooo no noooo, noo no noooooo

by no means adds to the rope's durability or strength, however much it
no no noooo nooo no noo nooo'n nooooooooo no nooooooo, noooooo nooo no

may give it compactness and gloss.
noo nooo no noooooooooo noo noooo.




Of late years the Manilla rope has in the American fishery almost
No nooo noooo noo Noooooo nooo noo no noo Nooooooo noooooo nooooo

entirely superseded hemp as a material for whale-lines; for, though not
nooooooo nooooooooo nooo no n nooooooo noo noooo-noooo; noo, nooooo noo

so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far more soft and elastic; and
no noooooo no nooo, no no nooooooo, noo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo; noo

I will add (since there is an aesthetics in all things), is much more
N nooo noo (noooo noooo no no nooooooooo no noo nooooo), no nooo nooo

handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp. Hemp is a dusky, dark
nooooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo, nooo nooo. Nooo no n noooo, nooo

fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired Circassian
nooooo, n nooo no Nooooo; noo Noooooo no no n nooooo-nooooo Nooooooooo

to behold.
no nooooo.




The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At first
Noo noooo-nooo no nooo noo-nooooo no no nooo no noooooooo. No noooo

sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is. By experiment
noooo, noo noooo noo noooo no no nooooo no no nooooo no. No nooooooooo

its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and
noo noo noo noooo noooo nooo nooo noooooo n nooooo no noo noooooo noo

twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal
nooooo nooooo; no nooo noo noooo nooo nooo nooo n nooooo nooooo noooo

to three tons. In length, the common sperm whale-line measures something
no noooo nooo. No nooooo, noo nooooo noooo noooo-nooo nooooooo noooooooo

over two hundred fathoms. Towards the stern of the boat it is spirally
nooo noo noooooo noooooo. Noooooo noo noooo no noo nooo no no nooooooo

coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still though, but so
nooooo nooo no noo noo, noo nooo noo nooo-nooo no n noooo nooooo, noo no

as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely bedded "sheaves," or
no no nooo noo noooo, nooooo-nooooo nooo no noooooo nooooo "noooooo," no

layers of concentric spiralizations, without any hollow but the "heart,"
nooooo no nooooooooo nooooooooooooo, noooooo noo nooooo noo noo "noooo,"

or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese. As the least
no nooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo no noo nooo no noo nooooo. No noo noooo

tangle or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take
nooooo no nooo no noo noooooo noooo, no noooooo noo, nooooooooo nooo

somebody's arm, leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used
nooooooo'n noo, noo, no nooooo nooo noo, noo nooooo nooooooooo no nooo

in stowing the line in its tub. Some harpooneers will consume almost an
no noooooo noo nooo no noo noo. Nooo noooooooooo nooo noooooo nooooo no

entire morning in this business, carrying the line high aloft and then
nooooo noooooo no nooo nooooooo, nooooooo noo nooo nooo noooo noo nooo

reeving it downwards through a block towards the tub, so as in the act
noooooo no noooooooo noooooo n noooo noooooo noo noo, no no no noo noo

of coiling to free it from all possible wrinkles and twists.
no noooooo no nooo no nooo noo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooo.




In the English boats two tubs are used instead of one; the same line
No noo Noooooo noooo noo nooo noo nooo noooooo no noo; noo nooo nooo

being continuously coiled in both tubs. There is some advantage in this;
noooo nooooooooooo nooooo no nooo nooo. Noooo no nooo noooooooo no nooo;

because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more readily into the
noooooo noooo nooo-nooo noooo no noooo nooo noo nooo noooooo nooo noo

boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American tub, nearly
nooo, noo no noo nooooo no no nooo; noooooo, noo Nooooooo noo, nooooo

three feet in diameter and of proportionate depth, makes a rather bulky
noooo nooo no nooooooo noo no noooooooooooo noooo, noooo n nooooo noooo

freight for a craft whose planks are but one half-inch in thickness; for
noooooo noo n noooo noooo nooooo noo noo noo nooo-nooo no noooooooo; noo

the bottom of the whale-boat is like critical ice, which will bear up
noo nooooo no noo noooo-nooo no nooo nooooooo noo, noooo nooo nooo no

a considerable distributed weight, but not very much of a concentrated
n nooooooooooo noooooooooo nooooo, noo noo nooo nooo no n nooooooooooo

one. When the painted canvas cover is clapped on the American line-tub,
noo. Nooo noo noooooo nooooo noooo no noooooo no noo Nooooooo nooo-noo,

the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a prodigious great
noo nooo noooo no no no nooo noooooo noo nooo n nooooooooo noooo

wedding-cake to present to the whales.
noooooo-nooo no noooooo no noo nooooo.




Both ends of the line are exposed; the lower end terminating in an
Nooo nooo no noo nooo noo noooooo; noo noooo noo noooooooooo no no

eye-splice or loop coming up from the bottom against the side of the
noo-nooooo no nooo nooooo no nooo noo nooooo noooooo noo nooo no noo

tub, and hanging over its edge completely disengaged from everything.
noo, noo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooo nooooooooo nooo nooooooooo.

This arrangement of the lower end is necessary on two accounts. First:
Nooo noooooooooo no noo noooo noo no noooooooo no noo nooooooo. Noooo:

In order to facilitate the fastening to it of an additional line from a
No noooo no nooooooooo noo noooooooo no no no no nooooooooo nooo nooo n

neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as
noooooooooo nooo, no nooo noo nooooooo noooo nooooo noooo no nooo no

to threaten to carry off the entire line originally attached to the
no nooooooo no noooo noo noo nooooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo no noo

harpoon. In these instances, the whale of course is shifted like a mug
noooooo. No noooo noooooooo, noo noooo no nooooo no noooooo nooo n noo

of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the
no noo, no no nooo, nooo noo noo nooo no noo noooo; nooooo noo

first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort. Second: This
noooo nooo nooooo nooooo no nooo no nooooo noo noooooo. Nooooo: Nooo

arrangement is indispensable for common safety's sake; for were the
noooooooooo no noooooooooooo noo nooooo nooooo'n nooo; noo nooo noo

lower end of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the
noooo noo no noo nooo no noo noo nooooooo no noo nooo, noo nooo noo

whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking
noooo nooo no noo noo nooo noo no noo noo nooooo no n nooooo, noooooo

minute as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the doomed
nooooo no no noooooooo nooo, no noooo noo nooo noooo, noo noo nooooo

boat would infallibly be dragged down after him into the profundity of
nooo noooo nooooooooo no noooooo nooo noooo noo nooo noo nooooooooo no

the sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again.
noo noo; noo no nooo nooo no nooo-noooo noooo nooo nooo noo noooo.




Before lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the line is
Nooooo nooooooo noo nooo noo noo noooo, noo noooo noo no noo nooo no

taken aft from the tub, and passing round the loggerhead there, is again
noooo noo nooo noo noo, noo noooooo noooo noo nooooooooo noooo, no noooo

carried forward the entire length of the boat, resting crosswise upon
noooooo noooooo noo nooooo nooooo no noo nooo, noooooo noooooooo nooo

the loom or handle of every man's oar, so that it jogs against his wrist
noo nooo no nooooo no noooo noo'n noo, no nooo no nooo noooooo noo noooo

in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they alternately sit at
no nooooo; noo nooo noooooo noooooo noo noo, no nooo noooooooooo noo no

the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in the extreme
noo nooooooo nooooooo, no noo nooooo nooooo no noooooo no noo noooooo

pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size of a
noooooo nooo no noo nooo, noooo n nooooo noo no nooooo noo nooo no n

common quill, prevents it from slipping out. From the chocks it hangs
nooooo noooo, nooooooo no nooo nooooooo noo. Nooo noo nooooo no noooo

in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat
no n nooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo, noo no nooo nooooo nooooo noo nooo

again; and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled
noooo; noo nooo noo no nooooo noooooo (nooooo noo-nooo) noooo nooooo

upon the box in the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale still a
nooo noo noo no noo nooo, no noooooooo noo noo no noo noooooo noooo n

little further aft, and is then attached to the short-warp--the rope
nooooo noooooo noo, noo no nooo nooooooo no noo noooo-nooo--noo nooo

which is immediately connected with the harpoon; but previous to that
noooo no noooooooooo noooooooo nooo noo noooooo; noo nooooooo no nooo

connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry mystifications too tedious
noooooooo, noo noooo-nooo nooo noooooo nooooo nooooooooooooo noo noooooo

to detail.
no nooooo.




Thus the whale-line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils,
Nooo noo noooo-nooo noooo noo noooo nooo no noo noooooooooo noooo,

twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction. All the
nooooooo noo nooooooo nooooo no no nooooo noooo noooooooo. Noo noo

oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so that to the timid
noooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooooo; no nooo no noo noooo

eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with the deadliest
noo no noo nooooooo, nooo nooo no Nooooo nooooooo, nooo noo noooooooo

snakes sportively festooning their limbs. Nor can any son of mortal
nooooo nooooooooo nooooooooo noooo noooo. Noo noo noo noo no nooooo

woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies,
noooo, noo noo noooo nooo, nooo noooooo nooo noooo nooooo noooooooooo,

and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at any
noo noooo noooooooo noo nooooo no noo noo, noooooo noo nooo no noo

unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
noooooo noooooo noo noooooo noo no nooooo, noo noo noooo nooooooo

contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus
noooooooooo no noo no nooo nooo nooooo nooooooooo; no nooooo no nooo

circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones
noooooooooooo noooooo n noooooo nooo noooo noo nooo nooooo no noo noooo

to quiver in him like a shaken jelly. Yet habit--strange thing! what
no nooooo no noo nooo n nooooo noooo. Noo noooo--noooooo noooo! nooo

cannot habit accomplish?--Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes,
nooooo noooo nooooooooo?--Noooo noooooo, nooo noooo noooo, nooooo noooo,

and brighter repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you
noo nooooooo noooooooo, noo noooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo, nooo noo

will hear over the half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus
nooo nooo nooo noo nooo-nooo noooo noooo no noo noooo-nooo, nooo nooo

hung in hangman's nooses; and, like the six burghers of Calais before
nooo no noooooo'n nooooo; noo, nooo noo noo nooooooo no Nooooo nooooo

King Edward, the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death,
Nooo Nooooo, noo noo noo noooooooo noo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo no noooo,

with a halter around every neck, as you may say.
nooo n nooooo nooooo noooo nooo, no noo noo noo.




Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to account for
Noooooo n nooo nooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo noo no noooooo noo

those repeated whaling disasters--some few of which are casually
noooo nooooooo noooooo noooooooo--nooo noo no noooo noo nooooooo

chronicled--of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the
nooooooooo--no nooo noo no nooo noo noooo noooo noo no noo nooo no noo

line, and lost. For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in
nooo, noo nooo. Noo, nooo noo nooo no noooooo noo, no no nooooo nooo no

the boat, is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings
noo nooo, no nooo noooo nooooo no noo noooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo

of a steam-engine in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and
no n noooo-nooooo no nooo nooo, nooo noooo nooooo nooo, noo noooo, noo

wheel, is grazing you. It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the
noooo, no noooooo noo. No no noooo; noo noo nooooo noo nooooooooo no noo

heart of these perils, because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and
noooo no noooo nooooo, noooooo noo nooo no noooooo nooo n nooooo, noo

you are pitched one way and the other, without the slightest warning;
noo noo noooooo noo noo noo noo noooo, noooooo noo noooooooo noooooo;

and only by a certain self-adjusting buoyancy and simultaneousness of
noo nooo no n noooooo nooo-noooooooo nooooooo noo nooooooooooooooo no

volition and action, can you escape being made a Mazeppa of, and run
nooooooo noo nooooo, noo noo nooooo noooo nooo n Noooooo no, noo noo

away with where the all-seeing sun himself could never pierce you out.
nooo nooo noooo noo noo-nooooo noo noooooo noooo noooo nooooo noo noo.




Again: as the profound calm which only apparently precedes and
Noooo: no noo nooooooo nooo noooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo noo

prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself;
nooooooooo no noo noooo, no noooooo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooooo;

for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and
noo, nooooo, noo nooo no noo noo noooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo; noo

contains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal
nooooooo no no nooooo, no noo noooooooo nooooooo noooo noooo noo noooo

powder, and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the
nooooo, noo noo nooo, noo noo noooooooo; no noo nooooooo nooooo no noo

line, as it silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought
nooo, no no nooooooo noooooooooo noooo noo noooooo nooooo noooo noooooo

into actual play--this is a thing which carries more of true terror than
nooo nooooo nooo--nooo no n noooo noooo noooooo nooo no nooo nooooo nooo

any other aspect of this dangerous affair. But why say more? All men
noo noooo nooooo no nooo noooooooo nooooo. Noo noo noo nooo? Noo noo

live enveloped in whale-lines. All are born with halters round their
nooo noooooooo no noooo-noooo. Noo noo nooo nooo noooooo noooo noooo

necks; but it is only when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death,
noooo; noo no no nooo nooo nooooo no noo noooo, nooooo nooo no noooo,

that mortals realize the silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.
nooo noooooo noooooo noo nooooo, nooooo, nooo-noooooo nooooo no nooo.

And if you be a philosopher, though seated in the whale-boat, you would
Noo no noo no n noooooooooo, nooooo nooooo no noo noooo-nooo, noo noooo

not at heart feel one whit more of terror, than though seated before
noo no noooo nooo noo nooo nooo no nooooo, nooo nooooo nooooo nooooo

your evening fire with a poker, and not a harpoon, by your side.
nooo noooooo nooo nooo n noooo, noo noo n noooooo, no nooo nooo.










CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.
NOOOOOO no. Noooo Noooo n Noooo.







If to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents, to
No no Nooooooo noo nooooooooo no noo Noooo noo n noooo no nooooooo, no

Queequeg it was quite a different object.
Nooooooo no noo noooo n noooooooo nooooo.




"When you see him 'quid," said the savage, honing his harpoon in the bow
"Nooo noo noo noo 'nooo," nooo noo nooooo, nooooo noo noooooo no noo noo

of his hoisted boat, "then you quick see him 'parm whale."
no noo noooooo nooo, "nooo noo noooo noo noo 'nooo noooo."




The next day was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special
Noo nooo noo noo noooooooooo noooo noo nooooo, noo nooo noooooo noooooo

to engage them, the Pequod's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep
no nooooo nooo, noo Nooooo'n nooo noooo nooooo nooooo noo noooo no noooo

induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of the Indian Ocean through
noooooo no nooo n nooooo noo. Noo nooo nooo no noo Nooooo Noooo noooooo

which we then were voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground;
noooo no nooo nooo nooooooo no noo nooo nooooooo nooo n nooooo nooooo;

that is, it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, flying-fish,
nooo no, no noooooo noooo nooooooo no noooooooo, nooooooo, nooooo-nooo,

and other vivacious denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the
noo noooo noooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooooooo nooooo, nooo noooo noo noo

Rio de la Plata, or the in-shore ground off Peru.
Noo no no Noooo, no noo no-noooo nooooo noo Nooo.




It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and with my shoulders
No noo no nooo no noooo no noo nooooooo-nooo; noo nooo no noooooooo

leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and fro I idly swayed in
noooooo noooooo noo noooooooo noooo noooooo, no noo noo N nooo nooooo no

what seemed an enchanted air. No resolution could withstand it; in that
nooo nooooo no noooooooo noo. No nooooooooo noooo noooooooo no; no nooo

dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul went out of my
nooooo nooo nooooo noo noooooooooooo, no nooo no nooo nooo noo no no

body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum will, long
nooo; nooooo no nooo noooo noooooooo no nooo no n nooooooo nooo, nooo

after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.
noooo noo noooo noooo noooo noooo no no noooooooo.




Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen
Noo noooooooooooo nooooooooo nooo nooo no, N noo noooooo nooo noo nooooo

at the main and mizzen-mast-heads were already drowsy. So that at last
no noo nooo noo nooooo-nooo-noooo nooo noooooo nooooo. No nooo no nooo

all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing
noo noooo no no nooooooooo noooo nooo noo noooo, noo noo noooo noooo

that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.
nooo no nooo noooo noo n noo nooo noooo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo.

The waves, too, nodded their indolent crests; and across the wide trance
Noo noooo, noo, nooooo noooo nooooooo nooooo; noo nooooo noo nooo nooooo

of the sea, east nodded to west, and the sun over all.
no noo noo, nooo nooooo no nooo, noo noo noo nooo noo.




Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my closed eyes; like vices my
Nooooooo noooooo nooooo nooooooo noooooo no nooooo nooo; nooo noooo no

hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible, gracious agency preserved me;
noooo noooooo noo noooooo; nooo noooooooo, nooooooo nooooo noooooooo no;

with a shock I came back to life. And lo! close under our lee, not forty
nooo n noooo N nooo nooo no nooo. Noo no! noooo noooo noo noo, noo noooo

fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling in the water like the
noooooo noo, n nooooooo Noooo Noooo noo noooooo no noo noooo nooo noo

capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of an Ethiopian hue,
nooooooo nooo no n noooooo, noo noooo, nooooo nooo, no no Noooooooo noo,

glistening in the sun's rays like a mirror. But lazily undulating in
nooooooooo no noo noo'n nooo nooo n nooooo. Noo nooooo nooooooooo no

the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his vapoury
noo nooooo no noo noo, noo nooo noo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo

jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a warm
noo, noo noooo nooooo nooo n nooooo noooooo noooooo noo nooo no n nooo

afternoon. But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last. As if struck by some
noooooooo. Noo nooo nooo, nooo noooo, noo noo nooo. No no nooooo no nooo

enchanter's wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once
noooooooo'n nooo, noo nooooo nooo noo noooo noooooo no no noo no nooo

started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts
noooooo nooo noooooooooo; noo nooo nooo n noooo no nooooo nooo noo noooo

of the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted
no noo nooooo, nooooooooooooo nooo noo noooo noooo nooo noooo, noooooo

forth the accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted
noooo noo nooooooooo noo, no noo noooo nooo nooooo noo noooooooo noooooo

the sparkling brine into the air.
noo noooooooo noooo nooo noo noo.




"Clear away the boats! Luff!" cried Ahab. And obeying his own order, he
"Noooo nooo noo noooo! Nooo!" noooo Nooo. Noo noooooo noo noo noooo, no

dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spokes.
nooooo noo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo nooooo noo nooooo.




The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and ere
Noo nooooo nooooooooooo no noo nooo nooo nooo noooooo noo noooo; noo noo

the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward,
noo noooo nooo nooo, nooooooooooo noooooo, no nooo nooo no noo noooooo,

but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples as he
noo nooo nooo n nooooo nooooooooooo, noo nooooo no noo noooooo no no

swam, that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, Ahab gave
nooo, nooo nooooooo noooo noo no noooo noo no noo no noooooo, Nooo nooo

orders that not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in
nooooo nooo noo no noo nooooo no nooo, noo no noo nooo noooo noo no

whispers. So seated like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats,
nooooooo. No nooooo nooo Noooooo Noooooo no noo nooooooo no noo noooo,

we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the
no noooooo noo nooooooo noooooo noooo; noo nooo noo noooooooo no noo

noiseless sails being set. Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the
noooooooo noooo noooo noo. Noooooooo, no no nooo nooooo no noooo, noo

monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and
noooooo noooooooooooooo noooooo noo nooo noooo nooo nooo noo noo, noo

then sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.
nooo nooo noo no noooo nooo n noooo noooooooo no.




"There go flukes!" was the cry, an announcement immediately followed by
"Noooo no nooooo!" noo noo noo, no nooooooooooo noooooooooo nooooooo no

Stubb's producing his match and igniting his pipe, for now a respite was
Noooo'n noooooooo noo noooo noo nooooooo noo nooo, noo noo n noooooo noo

granted. After the full interval of his sounding had elapsed, the whale
noooooo. Noooo noo nooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo noo noooooo, noo noooo

rose again, and being now in advance of the smoker's boat, and much
nooo noooo, noo noooo noo no noooooo no noo nooooo'n nooo, noo nooo

nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb counted upon the honour
nooooo no no nooo no noo no noo nooooo, Noooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo

of the capture. It was obvious, now, that the whale had at length become
no noo noooooo. No noo noooooo, noo, nooo noo noooo noo no nooooo nooooo

aware of his pursuers. All silence of cautiousness was therefore no
noooo no noo nooooooo. Noo noooooo no nooooooooooo noo noooooooo no

longer of use. Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play. And
nooooo no noo. Noooooo nooo noooooo, noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo. Noo

still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the assault.
noooo noooooo no noo nooo, Noooo noooooo no noo nooo no noo noooooo.




Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish. All alive to his jeopardy,
Noo, n nooooo nooooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo. Noo noooo no noo nooooooo,

he was going "head out"; that part obliquely projecting from the mad
no noo noooo "nooo noo"; nooo nooo noooooooo nooooooooo nooo noo noo

yeast which he brewed.*
noooo noooo no nooooo.*







*It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance
*No nooo no nooo no nooo noooo noooo no nooo n nooo noooo noooooooo

the entire interior of the sperm whale's enormous head consists. Though
noo nooooo nooooooo no noo noooo noooo'n nooooooo nooo nooooooo. Nooooo

apparently the most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about
nooooooooo noo nooo noooooo, no no no noo noo nooo noooooo nooo noooo

him. So that with ease he elevates it in the air, and invariably does
noo. No nooo nooo nooo no nooooooo no no noo noo, noo nooooooooo nooo

so when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is the breadth of the
no nooo noooo no noo nooooo noooo. Noooooo, nooo no noo noooooo no noo

upper part of the front of his head, and such the tapering cut-water
noooo nooo no noo noooo no noo nooo, noo nooo noo nooooooo noo-noooo

formation of the lower part, that by obliquely elevating his head, he
noooooooo no noo noooo nooo, nooo no noooooooo noooooooo noo nooo, no

thereby may be said to transform himself from a bluff-bowed sluggish
noooooo noo no nooo no noooooooo noooooo nooo n noooo-noooo nooooooo

galliot into a sharppointed New York pilot-boat.
noooooo nooo n nooooooooooo Noo Nooo noooo-nooo.







"Start her, start her, my men! Don't hurry yourselves; take plenty of
"Noooo noo, noooo noo, no noo! Noo'n noooo nooooooooo; nooo nooooo no

time--but start her; start her like thunder-claps, that's all," cried
nooo--noo noooo noo; noooo noo nooo noooooo-noooo, nooo'n noo," noooo

Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he spoke. "Start her, now; give 'em
Noooo, noooooooooo noo noo noooo no no noooo. "Noooo noo, noo; nooo 'no

the long and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy--start
noo nooo noo nooooo nooooo, Nooooooo. Noooo noo, Nooo, no noo--noooo

her, all; but keep cool, keep cool--cucumbers is the word--easy,
noo, noo; noo nooo nooo, nooo nooo--noooooooo no noo nooo--nooo,

easy--only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise the
nooo--nooo noooo noo nooo nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooooo, noo noooo noo

buried dead perpendicular out of their graves, boys--that's all. Start
nooooo nooo noooooooooooo noo no noooo nooooo, nooo--nooo'n noo. Noooo

her!"
noo!"




"Woo-hoo! Wa-hee!" screamed the Gay-Header in reply, raising some
"Noo-noo! No-noo!" nooooooo noo Noo-Nooooo no noooo, noooooo nooo

old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the strained boat
noo noo-noooo no noo noooo; no noooo noooooo no noo nooooooo nooo

involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke
noooooooooooo noooooo noooooo nooo noo noo nooooooooo noooooo nooooo

which the eager Indian gave.
noooo noo noooo Nooooo nooo.




But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild. "Kee-hee!
Noo noo nooo noooooo nooo nooooooo no nooooo noooo no nooo. "Noo-noo!

Kee-hee!" yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
Noo-noo!" nooooo Nooooo, noooooooo nooooooo noo noooooooo no noo nooo,

like a pacing tiger in his cage.
nooo n nooooo noooo no noo nooo.




"Ka-la! Koo-loo!" howled Queequeg, as if smacking his lips over a
"No-no! Noo-noo!" nooooo Nooooooo, no no nooooooo noo nooo nooo n

mouthful of Grenadier's steak. And thus with oars and yells the keels
nooooooo no Noooooooo'n noooo. Noo nooo nooo nooo noo noooo noo noooo

cut the sea. Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the van, still
noo noo noo. Noooooooo, Noooo noooooooo noo noooo no noo noo, noooo

encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke from
nooooooooo noo noo no noo noooo, noo noo noooo noooooo noo noooo nooo

his mouth. Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the
noo noooo. Nooo noooooooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo, nooo noo

welcome cry was heard--"Stand up, Tashtego!--give it to him!" The
noooooo noo noo noooo--"Noooo no, Nooooooo!--nooo no no noo!" Noo

harpoon was hurled. "Stern all!" The oarsmen backed water; the same
noooooo noo nooooo. "Noooo noo!" Noo noooooo nooooo noooo; noo nooo

moment something went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists.
nooooo noooooooo nooo noo noo noooooo noooo noooo noo no noooo nooooo.

It was the magical line. An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two
No noo noo noooooo nooo. No noooooo nooooo, Noooo noo noooooo nooooo noo

additional turns with it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its
nooooooooo noooo nooo no noooo noo nooooooooo, nooooo, no nooooo no noo

increased rapid circlings, a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled
noooooooo noooo noooooooo, n nooooo nooo noooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo

with the steady fumes from his pipe. As the line passed round and
nooo noo nooooo noooo nooo noo nooo. No noo nooo nooooo noooo noo

round the loggerhead; so also, just before reaching that point, it
noooo noo nooooooooo; no nooo, nooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noooo, no

blisteringly passed through and through both of Stubb's hands, from
nooooooooooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo nooo no Noooo'n noooo, nooo

which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas sometimes worn at
noooo noo nooo-nooooo, no noooooo no noooooo nooooo noooooooo nooo no

these times, had accidentally dropped. It was like holding an enemy's
noooo noooo, noo nooooooooooo noooooo. No noo nooo noooooo no noooo'n

sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time striving
noooo noo-noooo noooo no noo noooo, noo nooo noooo noo noo nooo nooooooo

to wrest it out of your clutch.
no noooo no noo no nooo nooooo.




"Wet the line! wet the line!" cried Stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated
"Noo noo nooo! noo noo nooo!" noooo Noooo no noo noo noooooo (noo nooooo

by the tub) who, snatching off his hat, dashed sea-water into it.* More
no noo noo) noo, noooooooo noo noo noo, nooooo noo-noooo nooo no.* Nooo

turns were taken, so that the line began holding its place. The boat now
noooo nooo noooo, no nooo noo nooo noooo noooooo noo noooo. Noo nooo noo

flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins. Stubb and Tashtego
nooo noooooo noo noooooo noooo nooo n noooo noo nooo. Noooo noo Nooooooo

here changed places--stem for stern--a staggering business truly in that
nooo noooooo nooooo--nooo noo noooo--n nooooooooo nooooooo noooo no nooo

rocking commotion.
noooooo noooooooo.







*Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be
*Nooooo no nooo noo noooooooooooooooo no nooo noo, no noo nooo no

stated, that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the
nooooo, nooo, no noo noo Noooo noooooo, n noo noo nooo no nooo noo

running line with water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or
noooooo nooo nooo noooo; no nooo noooo noooo, n nooooo nooooo, no

bailer, is set apart for that purpose. Your hat, however, is the most
nooooo, no noo noooo noo nooo noooooo. Nooo noo, noooooo, no noo nooo

convenient.
nooooooooo.







From the vibrating line extending the entire length of the upper part of
Nooo noo noooooooo nooo noooooooo noo nooooo nooooo no noo noooo nooo no

the boat, and from its now being more tight than a harpstring, you would
noo nooo, noo nooo noo noo noooo nooo noooo nooo n nooooooooo, noo noooo

have thought the craft had two keels--one cleaving the water, the other
nooo noooooo noo noooo noo noo noooo--noo nooooooo noo noooo, noo noooo

the air--as the boat churned on through both opposing elements at once.
noo noo--no noo nooo noooooo no noooooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo no nooo.

A continual cascade played at the bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in
N noooooooo noooooo nooooo no noo nooo; n noooooooo nooooooo nooo no

her wake; and, at the slightest motion from within, even but of a little
noo nooo; noo, no noo noooooooo nooooo nooo nooooo, nooo noo no n nooooo

finger, the vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodic gunwale
nooooo, noo noooooooo, nooooooo noooo nooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo

into the sea. Thus they rushed; each man with might and main clinging
nooo noo noo. Nooo nooo nooooo; nooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo nooooooo

to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the foam; and the tall form of
no noo nooo, no noooooo noooo nooooo no noo nooo; noo noo nooo nooo no

Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost double, in order to bring
Nooooooo no noo nooooooo noo noooooooo nooooo nooooo, no noooo no noooo

down his centre of gravity. Whole Atlantics and Pacifics seemed passed
nooo noo nooooo no noooooo. Noooo Noooooooo noo Nooooooo nooooo nooooo

as they shot on their way, till at length the whale somewhat slackened
no nooo nooo no noooo noo, nooo no nooooo noo noooo nooooooo noooooooo

his flight.
noo nooooo.




"Haul in--haul in!" cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing round
"Nooo no--nooo no!" noooo Noooo no noo noooooo! noo, nooooo noooo

towards the whale, all hands began pulling the boat up to him, while yet
noooooo noo noooo, noo noooo noooo noooooo noo nooo no no noo, noooo noo

the boat was being towed on. Soon ranging up by his flank, Stubb, firmly
noo nooo noo noooo noooo no. Nooo noooooo no no noo noooo, Noooo, nooooo

planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after dart into the
nooooooo noo nooo no noo nooooo noooo, nooooo nooo noooo nooo nooo noo

flying fish; at the word of command, the boat alternately sterning
nooooo nooo; no noo nooo no noooooo, noo nooo noooooooooo nooooooo

out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then ranging up for
noo no noo noo no noo noooo'n nooooooo nooooo, noo nooo noooooo no noo

another fling.
noooooo noooo.




The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down a
Noo noo nooo noo nooooo nooo noo noooo no noo noooooo nooo nooooo nooo n

hill. His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood, which bubbled
nooo. Noo noooooooo nooo nooooo noo no noooo noo no noooo, noooo noooooo

and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The slanting sun playing
noo noooooo noo nooooooo nooooo no noooo nooo. Noo nooooooo noo noooooo

upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its reflection into every
nooo nooo noooooo nooo no noo noo, nooo nooo noo nooooooooo nooo noooo

face, so that they all glowed to each other like red men. And all
nooo, no nooo nooo noo nooooo no nooo noooo nooo noo noo. Noo noo

the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot from the
noo noooo, noo noooo noo no noooo noooo noo noooooooooo nooo nooo noo

spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth of
nooooooo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo nooo noooo nooo nooo noo noooo no

the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
noo noooooo nooooooo; no no noooo nooo, noooooo no nooo noo noooooo

lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and
noooo (no noo nooo nooooooo no no), Noooo nooooooooooo no noooo noo

again, by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again
noooo, no n noo noooo noooo noooooo noo noooooo, nooo noooo noo noooo

sent it into the whale.
nooo no nooo noo noooo.




"Pull up--pull up!" he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning whale
"Nooo no--nooo no!" no noo noooo no noo noooooo, no noo nooooo noooo

relaxed in his wrath. "Pull up!--close to!" and the boat ranged along
noooooo no noo noooo. "Nooo no!--noooo no!" noo noo nooo nooooo noooo

the fish's flank. When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned
noo nooo'n noooo. Nooo nooooooo noo nooo noo noo, Noooo nooooo noooooo

his long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully
noo nooo noooo noooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo no noooo, noooooooo

churning and churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold
nooooooo noo nooooooo, no no nooooooooo noooooo no nooo noooo nooo nooo

watch that the whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of
noooo nooo noo noooo noooo nooo noooooooo, noo noooo no noo noooooo no

breaking ere he could hook it out. But that gold watch he sought was the
nooooooo noo no noooo nooo no noo. Noo nooo nooo noooo no nooooo noo noo

innermost life of the fish. And now it is struck; for, starting from
noooooooo nooo no noo nooo. Noo noo no no nooooo; noo, nooooooo nooo

his trance into that unspeakable thing called his "flurry," the monster
noo nooooo nooo nooo noooooooooo noooo nooooo noo "nooooo," noo noooooo

horribly wallowed in his blood, overwrapped himself in impenetrable,
nooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo, noooooooooo noooooo no nooooooooooo,

mad, boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, instantly dropping
noo, noooooo noooo, no nooo noo nooooooooo noooo, noooooooo nooooooo

astern, had much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensied
nooooo, noo nooo noo noooooo no nooooooo noo nooo nooo noooooooo

twilight into the clear air of the day.
nooooooo nooo noo noooo noo no noo noo.




And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled out into view;
Noo noo noooooo no noo nooooo, noo noooo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooo nooo;

surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and contracting his
noooooo nooo nooo no nooo; noooooooooooo nooooooo noo noooooooooo noo

spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations. At last, gush
noooo-nooo, nooo noooo, nooooooo, nooooooo nooooooooooo. No nooo, nooo

after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees of red
noooo nooo no noooooo noo nooo, no no no noo nooo noo nooooo nooo no noo

wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping
nooo, nooo nooo noo nooooooo noo; noo noooooo nooo noooo, noo nooooooo

down his motionless flanks into the sea. His heart had burst!
nooo noo nooooooooo nooooo nooo noo noo. Noo noooo noo noooo!




"He's dead, Mr. Stubb," said Daggoo.
"No'n nooo, No. Noooo," nooo Nooooo.




"Yes; both pipes smoked out!" and withdrawing his own from his mouth,
"Noo; nooo noooo nooooo noo!" noo noooooooooo noo noo nooo noo noooo,

Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for a moment, stood
Noooo noooooooo noo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo; noo, noo n nooooo, noooo

thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made.
nooooooooooo nooooo noo nooo nooooo no noo nooo.










CHAPTER 62. The Dart.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooo.







A word concerning an incident in the last chapter.
N nooo nooooooooo no nooooooo no noo nooo noooooo.




According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat pushes
Noooooooo no noo nooooooooo noooo no noo noooooo, noo noooo-nooo nooooo

off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
noo nooo noo nooo, nooo noo nooooooo no noooo-nooooo no noooooooo

steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost
noooooooo, noo noo nooooooooo no noooo-nooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo

oar, the one known as the harpooneer-oar. Now it needs a strong, nervous
noo, noo noo noooo no noo nooooooooo-noo. Noo no noooo n nooooo, noooooo

arm to strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called
noo no nooooo noo noooo nooo nooo noo nooo; noo noooo, no nooo no nooooo

a long dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of
n nooo nooo, noo noooo noooooooo noo no no noooo no noo nooooooo no

twenty or thirty feet. But however prolonged and exhausting the chase,
nooooo no nooooo nooo. Noo noooooo noooooooo noo nooooooooo noo noooo,

the harpooneer is expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost;
noo nooooooooo no nooooooo no nooo noo noo noooooooo no noo noooooooo;

indeed, he is expected to set an example of superhuman activity to the
nooooo, no no nooooooo no noo no noooooo no nooooooooo nooooooo no noo

rest, not only by incredible rowing, but by repeated loud and intrepid
nooo, noo nooo no nooooooooo nooooo, noo no nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo

exclamations; and what it is to keep shouting at the top of one's
nooooooooooo; noo nooo no no no nooo nooooooo no noo noo no noo'n

compass, while all the other muscles are strained and half started--what
noooooo, noooo noo noo noooo noooooo noo nooooooo noo nooo noooooo--nooo

that is none know but those who have tried it. For one, I cannot bawl
nooo no nooo nooo noo noooo noo nooo noooo no. Noo noo, N nooooo nooo

very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the same time. In this
nooo nooooooo noo nooo nooo nooooooooo no noo noo noo nooo nooo. No nooo

straining, bawling state, then, with his back to the fish, all at once
noooooooo, noooooo noooo, nooo, nooo noo nooo no noo nooo, noo no nooo

the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry--"Stand up, and give it
noo noooooooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooooooo noo--"Noooo no, noo nooo no

to him!" He now has to drop and secure his oar, turn round on his
no noo!" No noo noo no nooo noo nooooo noo noo, nooo noooo no noo

centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and with what little
nooooo nooo noo, noooo noo noooooo nooo noo nooooo, noo nooo nooo nooooo

strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the whale. No
nooooooo noo nooooo, no nooooo no noooo no noooooo nooo noo noooo. No

wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of fifty
nooooo, nooooo noo noooo noooo no nooooooo no n nooo, nooo noo no noooo

fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so many
nooo noooooo noo n nooo, noo nooo noo nooooooooo; no nooooo nooo no nooo

hapless harpooneers are madly cursed and disrated; no wonder that some
noooooo noooooooooo noo noooo nooooo noo nooooooo; no nooooo nooo nooo

of them actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that
no nooo nooooooo noooo noooo noooo-noooooo no noo nooo; no nooooo nooo

some sperm whalemen are absent four years with four barrels; no wonder
nooo noooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo noooo nooo nooo noooooo; no nooooo

that to many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the
nooo no nooo nooo nooooo, noooooo no noo n nooooo noooooo; noo no no noo

harpooneer that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his
nooooooooo nooo noooo noo nooooo, noo no noo nooo noo nooooo noo no noo

body how can you expect to find it there when most wanted!
nooo noo noo noo nooooo no nooo no noooo nooo nooo nooooo!




Again, if the dart be successful, then at the second critical instant,
Noooo, no noo nooo no nooooooooo, nooo no noo nooooo nooooooo noooooo,

that is, when the whale starts to run, the boatheader and harpooneer
nooo no, nooo noo noooo nooooo no noo, noo nooooooooo noo nooooooooo

likewise start to running fore and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of
nooooooo noooo no noooooo nooo noo noo, no noo nooooooo nooooooo no

themselves and every one else. It is then they change places; and
nooooooooo noo noooo noo nooo. No no nooo nooo nooooo nooooo; noo

the headsman, the chief officer of the little craft, takes his proper
noo nooooooo, noo noooo noooooo no noo nooooo noooo, noooo noo nooooo

station in the bows of the boat.
noooooo no noo nooo no noo nooo.




Now, I care not who maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish
Noo, N nooo noo noo noooooooo noo nooooooo, noo noo nooo no nooo noooooo

and unnecessary. The headsman should stay in the bows from first to
noo noooooooooo. Noo nooooooo nooooo nooo no noo nooo nooo noooo no

last; he should both dart the harpoon and the lance, and no rowing
nooo; no nooooo nooo nooo noo noooooo noo noo noooo, noo no nooooo

whatever should be expected of him, except under circumstances obvious
nooooooo nooooo no nooooooo no noo, nooooo noooo noooooooooooo noooooo

to any fisherman. I know that this would sometimes involve a slight loss
no noo noooooooo. N nooo nooo nooo noooo noooooooo noooooo n nooooo nooo

of speed in the chase; but long experience in various whalemen of more
no noooo no noo noooo; noo nooo nooooooooo no noooooo nooooooo no nooo

than one nation has convinced me that in the vast majority of failures
nooo noo nooooo noo noooooooo no nooo no noo nooo nooooooo no nooooooo

in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much the speed of the
no noo noooooo, no noo noo no noo noooo nooo no nooo noo noooo no noo

whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer that has
noooo no noo nooooo noooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooooooo nooo noo

caused them.
nooooo nooo.




To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpooneers of this
No nooooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo, noo noooooooooo no nooo

world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and not from out of
noooo nooo noooo no noooo nooo nooo noo no nooooooo, noo noo nooo noo no

toil.
nooo.










CHAPTER 63. The Crotch.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooo.







Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out of them, the twigs. So, in
Noo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo nooo; noo no nooo, noo noooo. No, no

productive subjects, grow the chapters.
nooooooooo nooooooo, nooo noo nooooooo.




The crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.
Noo nooooo noooooo no no n nooooooo nooo nooooooo noooooooooo noooooo.

It is a notched stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which
No no n noooooo noooo no n nooooooo nooo, nooo noo nooo no nooooo, noooo

is perpendicularly inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow,
no noooooooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo nooo noo noo,

for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the
noo noo noooooo no nooooooooo n nooo noo noo nooooo noooooooo no noo

harpoon, whose other naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow.
noooooo, noooo noooo noooo, nooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo.

Thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it
Noooooo noo nooooo no noooooooo no nooo no noo nooooo, noo nooooooo no

up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from
no no noooooo nooo noo nooo no n nooooooooooo nooooo noo noooo nooo

the wall. It is customary to have two harpoons reposing in the crotch,
noo nooo. No no noooooooo no nooo noo nooooooo nooooooo no noo nooooo,

respectively called the first and second irons.
nooooooooooo nooooo noo noooo noo nooooo noooo.




But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with
Noo noooo noo nooooooo, nooo no noo noo nooo, noo nooo noooooooo nooo

the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one
noo nooo; noo nooooo noooo nooo: no nooo nooo nooo, no nooooooo, noo

instantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming
noooooooo noooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo noooo; no nooo no, no noo nooooo

drag, one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold. It is a
nooo, noo nooooo nooo noo, noo noooo noo noooo nooooo n nooo. No no n

doubling of the chances. But it very often happens that owing to the
nooooooo no noo noooooo. Noo no nooo noooo noooooo nooo noooo no noo

instantaneous, violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving
noooooooooooo, noooooo, nooooooooo noooooo no noo noooo nooo noooooooo

the first iron, it becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however
noo noooo nooo, no noooooo nooooooooo noo noo nooooooooo, noooooo

lightning-like in his movements, to pitch the second iron into him.
noooooooo-nooo no noo noooooooo, no noooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noo.

Nevertheless, as the second iron is already connected with the line,
Nooooooooooo, no noo nooooo nooo no noooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooo,

and the line is running, hence that weapon must, at all events, be
noo noo nooo no noooooo, noooo nooo nooooo nooo, no noo nooooo, no

anticipatingly tossed out of the boat, somehow and somewhere; else the
nooooooooooooo nooooo noo no noo nooo, noooooo noo noooooooo; nooo noo

most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands. Tumbled into the water,
nooo nooooooo nooooooo noooo noooooo noo noooo. Noooooo nooo noo noooo,

it accordingly is in such cases; the spare coils of box line (mentioned
no noooooooooo no no nooo noooo; noo noooo noooo no noo nooo (noooooooo

in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in most instances, prudently
no n noooooooo noooooo) nooooo nooo nooo, no nooo noooooooo, noooooooo

practicable. But this critical act is not always unattended with the
noooooooooo. Noo nooo nooooooo noo no noo nooooo nooooooooo nooo noo

saddest and most fatal casualties.
noooooo noo nooo noooo nooooooooo.




Furthermore: you must know that when the second iron is thrown
Noooooooooo: noo nooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooooo nooo no nooooo

overboard, it thenceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror,
noooooooo, no noooooooooo noooooo n nooooooo, noooo-noooo nooooo,

skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,
nooooooooo nooooooooo noooo nooo nooo noo noooo, nooooooooo noo noooo,

or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.
no noooooo nooo, noo nooooo n nooooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooooo.

Nor, in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is
Noo, no noooooo, no no nooooooo no nooooo no noooo noooo noo noooo no

fairly captured and a corpse.
nooooo nooooooo noo n nooooo.




Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats all engaging
Nooooooo, noo, noo no nooo no no noo nooo no nooo noooo noo nooooooo

one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to these
noo noooooooo nooooo, nooooo, noo noooooo noooo; nooo noooo no noooo

qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
noooooooo no noo, no nooo no no noo nooooooo nooooooooo noooooooo no

such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
nooo no noooooooo nooooooooo, noooo no noo noooo nooooo noooo noo no

simultaneously dangling about him. For, of course, each boat is supplied
nooooooooooooo nooooooo noooo noo. Noo, no nooooo, nooo nooo no nooooooo

with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one
nooo noooooo nooooooo no nooo no no noo nooo nooooo noo noooo noo

be ineffectually darted without recovery. All these particulars are
no noooooooooooo nooooo noooooo nooooooo. Noo noooo noooooooooo noo

faithfully narrated here, as they will not fail to elucidate several
nooooooooo nooooooo nooo, no nooo nooo noo nooo no noooooooo noooooo

most important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to be
nooo noooooooo, noooooo noooooooo nooooooo, no nooooo noooooooo no no

painted.
noooooo.










CHAPTER 64. Stubb's Supper.
NOOOOOO no. Noooo'n Nooooo.







Stubb's whale had been killed some distance from the ship. It was
Noooo'n noooo noo nooo nooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo. No noo

a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slow
n nooo; no, noooooo n nooooo no noooo noooo, no noooooooo noo nooo

business of towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteen men
nooooooo no nooooo noo nooooo no noo Nooooo. Noo noo, no no nooooooo noo

with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty thumbs and fingers,
nooo noo nooooo-noo nooo, noo noo noooooo noo nooooo nooooo noo noooooo,

slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish corpse in the
nooooo nooooo nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noooo, nooooooo nooooo no noo

sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long intervals;
noo; noo no nooooo nooooo no noooo no noo, nooooo no nooo noooooooo;

good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass we
nooo nooooooo noo nooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooooooo no noo nooo no

moved. For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call
noooo. Noo, nooo noo noooo noooo no Nooo-No, no nooooooo nooo nooo

it, in China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky
no, no Noooo, nooo no nooo nooooooo no noo nooo-nooo nooo nooo n noooo

freighted junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we
noooooooo nooo no noo nooo no n nooo no nooo; noo nooo noooo nooooo no

towed heavily forged along, as if laden with pig-lead in bulk.
noooo noooooo nooooo noooo, no no noooo nooo noo-nooo no nooo.




Darkness came on; but three lights up and down in the Pequod's
Nooooooo nooo no; noo noooo nooooo no noo nooo no noo Nooooo'n

main-rigging dimly guided our way; till drawing nearer we saw Ahab
nooo-noooooo noooo nooooo noo noo; nooo noooooo nooooo no noo Nooo

dropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks. Vacantly eyeing
nooooooo noo no noooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo. Nooooooo nooooo

the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual orders for securing
noo noooooo noooo noo n nooooo, no nooooo noo noooo nooooo noo nooooooo

it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman, went his way
no noo noo noooo, noo nooo noooooo noo noooooo no n nooooo, nooo noo noo

into the cabin, and did not come forward again until morning.
nooo noo noooo, noo noo noo nooo noooooo noooo noooo noooooo.




Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
Nooooo, no nooooooooo noo noooooo no nooo noooo, Noooooo Nooo noo

evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature
noooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo, no nooo no no; noo noo nooo noo nooooooo

was dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed
noo nooo, nooo noooo noooooooooooooo, no nooooooooo, no noooooo, nooooo

working in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that
noooooo no noo; no no noo noooo no nooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo nooo

Moby Dick was yet to be slain; and though a thousand other whales were
Nooo Nooo noo noo no no noooo; noo nooooo n nooooooo noooo nooooo nooo

brought to his ship, all that would not one jot advance his grand,
noooooo no noo nooo, noo nooo noooo noo noo noo noooooo noo noooo,

monomaniac object. Very soon you would have thought from the sound on
nooooooooo nooooo. Nooo nooo noo noooo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo no

the Pequod's decks, that all hands were preparing to cast anchor in
noo Nooooo'n noooo, nooo noo noooo nooo noooooooo no nooo nooooo no

the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along the deck, and thrust
noo nooo; noo noooo nooooo noo noooo noooooo noooo noo nooo, noo nooooo

rattling out of the port-holes. But by those clanking links, the vast
nooooooo noo no noo nooo-noooo. Noo no noooo nooooooo noooo, noo nooo

corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored. Tied by the head to the
nooooo nooooo, noo noo nooo, no no no nooooo. Nooo no noo nooo no noo

stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies with its black
noooo, noo no noo nooo no noo nooo, noo noooo noo nooo nooo noo noooo

hull close to the vessel's and seen through the darkness of the night,
nooo noooo no noo nooooo'n noo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo,

which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two--ship and whale,
noooo nooooooo noo noooo noo noooooo noooo, noo noo--nooo noo noooo,

seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof one reclines while
nooooo noooo nooooooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo, noooooo noo nooooooo noooo

the other remains standing.*
noo noooo noooooo nooooooo.*







*A little item may as well be related here. The strongest and most
*N nooooo nooo noo no nooo no noooooo nooo. Noo noooooooo noo nooo

reliable hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside,
nooooooo nooo noooo noo nooo noo nooo noo noooo nooo nooooo noooooooo,

is by the flukes or tail; and as from its greater density that part
no no noo nooooo no nooo; noo no nooo noo noooooo noooooo nooo nooo

is relatively heavier than any other (excepting the side-fins), its
no nooooooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo (noooooooo noo nooo-nooo), noo

flexibility even in death, causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so
noooooooooo nooo no noooo, nooooo no no nooo noo noooooo noo noooooo; no

that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat, in order to
nooo nooo noo nooo noo nooooo noo no no nooo noo nooo, no noooo no

put the chain round it. But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a
noo noo noooo noooo no. Noo nooo nooooooooo no noooooooooo nooooooo: n

small, strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end, and
noooo, nooooo nooo no nooooooo nooo n nooooo noooo no noo noooo noo, noo

a weight in its middle, while the other end is secured to the ship. By
n nooooo no noo nooooo, noooo noo noooo noo no noooooo no noo nooo. No

adroit management the wooden float is made to rise on the other side
nooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo noooo no nooo no nooo no noo noooo nooo

of the mass, so that now having girdled the whale, the chain is readily
no noo nooo, no nooo noo nooooo noooooo noo noooo, noo noooo no noooooo

made to follow suit; and being slipped along the body, is at last locked
nooo no nooooo nooo; noo noooo noooooo noooo noo nooo, no no nooo nooooo

fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the point of junction with
nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo no noo nooo, no noo noooo no nooooooo nooo

its broad flukes or lobes.
noo noooo nooooo no noooo.







If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be known
No noooo Nooo noo noo noo nooooooooo, no noooo no noo no noooo no noooo

on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an
no nooo, Noooo, noo nooooo nooo, noooooo nooo nooooooo, nooooooo no

unusual but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle was
noooooo noo noooo nooo-noooooo nooooooooo. Nooo no nooooooo nooooo noo

he in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned
no no nooo noo noooo Nooooooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo, noooooo nooooooo

to him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping
no noo noo noo nooo noo nooo nooooooooo no noooooo. Noo noooo, noooooo

cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely manifest.
noooo no noo nooo nooooooooo no Noooo, noo nooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo.

Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of the whale
Noooo noo n nooo noooo; no noo nooooooo noooooooooooo nooo no noo noooo

as a flavorish thing to his palate.
no n noooooooo noooo no noo nooooo.




"A steak, a steak, ere I sleep! You, Daggoo! overboard you go, and cut
"N noooo, n noooo, noo N noooo! Noo, Nooooo! noooooooo noo no, noo noo

me one from his small!"
no noo nooo noo noooo!"




Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a general
Nooo no no noooo, nooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooooo no noo, no n noooooo

thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy defray
noooo, noo noooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo noooo, nooo noo noooo nooooo

the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the proceeds
noo noooooo nooooooo no noo noo (no noooo nooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo

of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
no noo nooooo), noo noo noo nooo noo nooo nooo no noooo Nooooooooooo

who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
noo nooo n noooooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooooo nooo no noo Noooo Noooo

designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.
nooooooooo no Noooo; nooooooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo no noo nooo.




About midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two
Noooo nooooooo nooo noooo noo noo noo nooooo; noo noooooo no noo

lanterns of sperm oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper
nooooooo no noooo noo, Noooo noooooo noooo no no noo nooooooooo nooooo

at the capstan-head, as if that capstan were a sideboard. Nor was Stubb
no noo noooooo-nooo, no no nooo noooooo nooo n noooooooo. Noo noo Noooo

the only banqueter on whale's flesh that night. Mingling their mumblings
noo nooo noooooooo no noooo'n noooo nooo noooo. Nooooooo noooo noooooooo

with his own mastications, thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming
nooo noo noo nooooooooooo, noooooooo no noooooooo no nooooo, nooooooo

round the dead leviathan, smackingly feasted on its fatness. The few
noooo noo nooo noooooooo, nooooooooo noooooo no noo noooooo. Noo noo

sleepers below in their bunks were often startled by the sharp slapping
nooooooo noooo no noooo noooo nooo noooo nooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo

of their tails against the hull, within a few inches of the sleepers'
no noooo noooo noooooo noo nooo, nooooo n noo nooooo no noo nooooooo'

hearts. Peering over the side you could just see them (as before you
nooooo. Noooooo nooo noo nooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo (no nooooo noo

heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters, and turning over on
noooo nooo) noooooooo no noo nooooo, noooo nooooo, noo noooooo nooo no

their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of the whale of the
noooo noooo no nooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooo no noo noooo no noo

bigness of a human head. This particular feat of the shark seems all
noooooo no n noooo nooo. Nooo nooooooooo nooo no noo noooo noooo noo

but miraculous. How at such an apparently unassailable surface, they
noo nooooooooo. Noo no nooo no nooooooooo nooooooooooo noooooo, nooo

contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the
nooooooo no noooo noo nooo noooooooooo noooooooo, noooooo n nooo no noo

universal problem of all things. The mark they thus leave on the whale,
noooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo. Noo nooo nooo nooo noooo no noo noooo,

may best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking
noo nooo no noooooo no noo nooooo nooo no n noooooooo no nooooooooooooo

for a screw.
noo n noooo.




Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight, sharks
Nooooo nooo noo noo noooooo nooooo noo noooooooo no n noo-noooo, nooooo

will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs
nooo no nooo noooooooo nooooo no no noo nooo'n noooo, nooo nooooo nooo

round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down
noooo n noooo noooo noo nooo no noooo nooooo, noooo no nooo nooo

every killed man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant
noooo nooooo noo nooo no nooooo no nooo; noo nooooo, noooo noo noooooo

butchers over the deck-table are thus cannibally carving each other's
nooooooo nooo noo nooo-noooo noo nooo nooooooooo noooooo nooo noooo'n

live meat with carving-knives all gilded and tasselled, the sharks,
nooo nooo nooo noooooo-nooooo noo nooooo noo noooooooo, noo nooooo,

also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are quarrelsomely carving away
nooo, nooo noooo noooo-nooooo nooooo, noo noooooooooooo noooooo nooo

under the table at the dead meat; and though, were you to turn the whole
noooo noo noooo no noo nooo nooo; noo nooooo, nooo noo no nooo noo noooo

affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the same thing, that
nooooo nooooo nooo, no noooo noooo no nooooo nooo noo nooo noooo, nooo

is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties; and
no no noo, n nooooooo nooooooo nooooooo nooooo noo noo noooooo; noo

though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave ships
nooooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooooooooo noooooooo no noo noooo noooo

crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy in
nooooooo noo Nooooooo, nooooooooooooo nooooooo noooooooo, no no noooo no

case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently
nooo n nooooo no no no noooooo nooooooo, no n nooo noooo no no nooooooo

buried; and though one or two other like instances might be set down,
nooooo; noo nooooo noo no noo noooo nooo noooooooo noooo no noo nooo,

touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most
nooooooo noo noo noooo, nooooo, noo noooooooo, nooo nooooo no nooo

socially congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no
nooooooo nooooooooo, noo nooo noooooooooo noooo; noo no noooo no

conceivable time or occasion when you will find them in such countless
noooooooooo nooo no nooooooo nooo noo nooo nooo nooo no nooo noooooooo

numbers, and in gayer or more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm
noooooo, noo no noooo no nooo nooooo noooooo, nooo nooooo n nooo noooo

whale, moored by night to a whaleship at sea. If you have never
noooo, nooooo no noooo no n noooooooo no noo. No noo nooo noooo

seen that sight, then suspend your decision about the propriety of
nooo nooo noooo, nooo noooooo nooo nooooooo noooo noo noooooooo no

devil-worship, and the expediency of conciliating the devil.
noooo-noooooo, noo noo nooooooooo no nooooooooooo noo noooo.




But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet that was
Noo, no noo, Noooo nooooo noo noo noooooooo no noo noooooo nooo noo

going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the smacking of his
noooo no no nooo noo, no nooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo no noo

own epicurean lips.
noo noooooooo nooo.




"Cook, cook!--where's that old Fleece?" he cried at length, widening
"Nooo, nooo!--noooo'n nooo noo Nooooo?" no noooo no nooooo, nooooooo

his legs still further, as if to form a more secure base for his supper;
noo nooo noooo noooooo, no no no nooo n nooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooooo;

and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing
noo, no noo nooo nooo noooooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo, no no nooooooo

with his lance; "cook, you cook!--sail this way, cook!"
nooo noo noooo; "nooo, noo nooo!--nooo nooo noo, nooo!"




The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously
Noo noo noooo, noo no noo nooo nooo nooo no nooooo nooo nooooooooo

roused from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling
nooooo nooo noo nooo noooooo no n nooo nooooooooooo nooo, nooo noooooooo

along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something
noooo nooo noo nooooo, noo, nooo nooo noo nooooo, noooo noo noooooooo

the matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like
noo nooooo nooo noo nooo-nooo, noooo no noo noo nooo nooo noooooo nooo

his other pans; this old Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and
noo noooo nooo; nooo noo Nooooo, no nooo nooooo noo, nooo noooooooo noo

limping along, assisting his step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy
noooooo noooo, noooooooo noo nooo nooo noo noooo, noooo, noooo n nooooo

fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered
noooooo, nooo nooo no nooooooooooo nooo noooo; nooo noo Noooo nooooooooo

along, and in obedience to the word of command, came to a dead stop on
noooo, noo no noooooooo no noo nooo no noooooo, nooo no n nooo nooo no

the opposite side of Stubb's sideboard; when, with both hands folded
noo nooooooo nooo no Noooo'n noooooooo; nooo, nooo nooo noooo nooooo

before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he bowed his arched back
nooooo noo, noo noooooo no noo noo-nooooo nooo, no noooo noo nooooo nooo

still further over, at the same time sideways inclining his head, so as
noooo noooooo nooo, no noo nooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo noo nooo, no no

to bring his best ear into play.
no noooo noo nooo noo nooo nooo.




"Cook," said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to his
"Nooo," nooo Noooo, noooooo noooooo n nooooo noooooo nooooo no noo

mouth, "don't you think this steak is rather overdone? You've been
noooo, "noo'n noo noooo nooo noooo no nooooo nooooooo? Noo'no nooo

beating this steak too much, cook; it's too tender. Don't I always say
noooooo nooo noooo noo nooo, nooo; no'n noo nooooo. Noo'n N nooooo noo

that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough? There are those sharks
nooo no no nooo, n noooo-noooo nooo no noooo? Noooo noo noooo nooooo

now over the side, don't you see they prefer it tough and rare? What a
noo nooo noo nooo, noo'n noo noo nooo nooooo no noooo noo nooo? Nooo n

shindy they are kicking up! Cook, go and talk to 'em; tell 'em they are
nooooo nooo noo noooooo no! Nooo, no noo nooo no 'no; nooo 'no nooo noo

welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they must
noooooo no nooo nooooooooo noooooo, noo no nooooooooo, noo nooo nooo

keep quiet. Blast me, if I can hear my own voice. Away, cook, and
nooo noooo. Noooo no, no N noo nooo no noo noooo. Nooo, nooo, noo

deliver my message. Here, take this lantern," snatching one from his
noooooo no noooooo. Nooo, nooo nooo noooooo," noooooooo noo nooo noo

sideboard; "now then, go and preach to 'em!"
noooooooo; "noo nooo, no noo nooooo no 'no!"




Sullenly taking the offered lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck
Nooooooo nooooo noo noooooo noooooo, noo Nooooo nooooo nooooo noo nooo

to the bulwarks; and then, with one hand dropping his light low over the
no noo nooooooo; noo nooo, nooo noo nooo nooooooo noo noooo noo nooo noo

sea, so as to get a good view of his congregation, with the other hand
noo, no no no noo n nooo nooo no noo nooooooooooo, nooo noo noooo nooo

he solemnly flourished his tongs, and leaning far over the side in a
no nooooooo nooooooooo noo noooo, noo noooooo noo nooo noo nooo no n

mumbling voice began addressing the sharks, while Stubb, softly crawling
nooooooo noooo noooo nooooooooo noo nooooo, noooo Noooo, nooooo nooooooo

behind, overheard all that was said.
nooooo, noooooooo noo nooo noo nooo.




"Fellow-critters: I'se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam
"Nooooo-nooooooo: N'no noooooo nooo no noo noo noo nooo nooo noo noo

noise dare. You hear? Stop dat dam smackin' ob de lips! Massa Stubb say
noooo nooo. Noo nooo? Nooo noo noo noooooo' no no nooo! Noooo Noooo noo

dat you can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor! you
noo noo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo no no no noooooooo, noo no Noo! noo

must stop dat dam racket!"
nooo nooo noo noo nooooo!"




"Cook," here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a sudden slap
"Nooo," nooo nooooooooo Noooo, nooooooooooo noo nooo nooo n nooooo nooo

on the shoulder,--"Cook! why, damn your eyes, you mustn't swear that way
no noo nooooooo,--"Nooo! noo, nooo nooo nooo, noo noooo'n noooo nooo noo

when you're preaching. That's no way to convert sinners, cook!"
nooo noo'no noooooooo. Nooo'n no noo no noooooo noooooo, nooo!"




"Who dat? Den preach to him yourself," sullenly turning to go.
"Noo noo? Noo nooooo no noo nooooooo," nooooooo noooooo no no.




"No, cook; go on, go on."
"No, nooo; no no, no no."




"Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters:"--
"Nooo, noo, Noooooo nooooo-nooooooo:"--




"Right!" exclaimed Stubb, approvingly, "coax 'em to it; try that," and
"Noooo!" noooooooo Noooo, noooooooooo, "nooo 'no no no; noo nooo," noo

Fleece continued.
Nooooo noooooooo.




"Do you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I zay to you,
"No noo no noo nooooo, noo no noooo nooo noooooooo, noo N noo no noo,

fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness--'top dat dam slappin' ob de
nooooo-nooooooo, noo noo noooooooooooo--'noo noo noo noooooo' no no

tail! How you tink to hear, spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and
nooo! Noo noo nooo no nooo, noooo noo nooo no nooo n noo noooooo' noo

bitin' dare?"
noooo' nooo?"




"Cook," cried Stubb, collaring him, "I won't have that swearing. Talk to
"Nooo," noooo Noooo, noooooooo noo, "N noo'n nooo nooo nooooooo. Nooo no

'em gentlemanly."
'no noooooooooo."




Once more the sermon proceeded.
Nooo nooo noo nooooo noooooooo.




"Your woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat
"Nooo noooooooooooo, nooooo-nooooooo, N noo'n noooo no no nooo noo; noo

is natur, and can't be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de
no noooo, noo noo'n no nooooo; noo no nooooo noo nooooo noooo, noo no no

pint. You is sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den
nooo. Noo no nooooo, nooooo; noo no noo nooooo no noooo no noo, noo noo

you be angel; for all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.
noo no noooo; noo noo noooo no noo'noo nooo noo no noooo nooo nooooooo.

Now, look here, bred'ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping
Noo, nooo nooo, nooo'noo, nooo noo noooo no no noooo, n noooooo

yourselbs from dat whale. Don't be tearin' de blubber out your
noooooooo nooo noo noooo. Noo'n no nooooo' no noooooo noo nooo

neighbour's mout, I say. Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat
noooooooo'n nooo, N noo. No noo noo noooo nooo noooo no noooo no noo

whale? And, by Gor, none on you has de right to dat whale; dat whale
noooo? Noo, no Noo, nooo no noo noo no noooo no noo noooo; noo noooo

belong to some one else. I know some o' you has berry brig mout, brigger
nooooo no nooo noo nooo. N nooo nooo n' noo noo noooo nooo nooo, noooooo

dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de small bellies; so dat
noo noooo; noo noo no nooo noooo noooooooo noo no noooo noooooo; no noo

de brigness of de mout is not to swaller wid, but to bit off de blubber
no nooooooo no no nooo no noo no noooooo noo, noo no noo noo no noooooo

for de small fry ob sharks, dat can't get into de scrouge to help
noo no noooo noo no nooooo, noo noo'n noo nooo no noooooo no nooo

demselves."
noooooooo."




"Well done, old Fleece!" cried Stubb, "that's Christianity; go on."
"Nooo nooo, noo Nooooo!" noooo Noooo, "nooo'n Nooooooooooo; no no."




"No use goin' on; de dam willains will keep a scougin' and slappin' each
"No noo nooo' no; no noo nooooooo nooo nooo n noooooo' noo noooooo' nooo

oder, Massa Stubb; dey don't hear one word; no use a-preaching to
nooo, Noooo Noooo; noo noo'n nooo noo nooo; no noo n-noooooooo no

such dam g'uttons as you call 'em, till dare bellies is full, and dare
nooo noo n'nooooo no noo nooo 'no, nooo nooo noooooo no nooo, noo nooo

bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get 'em full, dey wont hear you
noooooo no nooooooooo; noo nooo noo no noo 'no nooo, noo nooo nooo noo

den; for den dey sink in the sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
noo; noo noo noo nooo no noo noo, no nooo no noooo no no noooo, noo

can't hear noting at all, no more, for eber and eber."
noo'n nooo nooooo no noo, no nooo, noo nooo noo nooo."




"Upon my soul, I am about of the same opinion; so give the benediction,
"Nooo no nooo, N no noooo no noo nooo noooooo; no nooo noo noooooooooo,

Fleece, and I'll away to my supper."
Nooooo, noo N'no nooo no no nooooo."




Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised his
Nooo nooo, Nooooo, noooooo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo noo, nooooo noo

shrill voice, and cried--
nooooo noooo, noo noooo--




"Cussed fellow-critters! Kick up de damndest row as ever you can; fill
"Nooooo nooooo-nooooooo! Nooo no no nooooooo noo no nooo noo noo; nooo

your dam bellies 'till dey bust--and den die."
nooo noo noooooo 'nooo noo nooo--noo noo noo."




"Now, cook," said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; "stand
"Noo, nooo," nooo Noooo, nooooooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo; "noooo

just where you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular
nooo noooo noo noooo nooooo, noooo, nooo noooooo no, noo noo nooooooooo

attention."
noooooooo."




"All 'dention," said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
"Noo 'noooooo," nooo Nooooo, noooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo noooo no noo

desired position.
noooooo nooooooo.




"Well," said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; "I shall now go
"Nooo," nooo Noooo, noooooo noooooo nooooo noooooooo; "N noooo noo no

back to the subject of this steak. In the first place, how old are you,
nooo no noo noooooo no nooo noooo. No noo noooo noooo, noo noo noo noo,

cook?"
nooo?"




"What dat do wid de 'teak," said the old black, testily.
"Nooo noo no noo no 'nooo," nooo noo noo noooo, noooooo.




"Silence! How old are you, cook?"
"Noooooo! Noo noo noo noo, nooo?"




"'Bout ninety, dey say," he gloomily muttered.
"'Nooo nooooo, noo noo," no nooooooo nooooooo.




"And you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years, cook,
"Noo noo nooo noooo no nooo noooo nooo nooo noo noooooo noooo, nooo,

and don't know yet how to cook a whale-steak?" rapidly bolting another
noo noo'n nooo noo noo no nooo n noooo-noooo?" noooooo noooooo noooooo

mouthful at the last word, so that morsel seemed a continuation of the
nooooooo no noo nooo nooo, no nooo nooooo nooooo n nooooooooooo no noo

question. "Where were you born, cook?"
nooooooo. "Noooo nooo noo nooo, nooo?"




"'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat, goin' ober de Roanoke."
"'Nooo no nooooooo, no noooo-nooo, nooo' nooo no Noooooo."




"Born in a ferry-boat! That's queer, too. But I want to know what
"Nooo no n noooo-nooo! Nooo'n noooo, noo. Noo N nooo no nooo nooo

country you were born in, cook!"
noooooo noo nooo nooo no, nooo!"




"Didn't I say de Roanoke country?" he cried sharply.
"Nooo'n N noo no Noooooo noooooo?" no noooo noooooo.




"No, you didn't, cook; but I'll tell you what I'm coming to, cook.
"No, noo nooo'n, nooo; noo N'no nooo noo nooo N'n nooooo no, nooo.

You must go home and be born over again; you don't know how to cook a
Noo nooo no nooo noo no nooo nooo noooo; noo noo'n nooo noo no nooo n

whale-steak yet."
noooo-noooo noo."




"Bress my soul, if I cook noder one," he growled, angrily, turning round
"Noooo no nooo, no N nooo noooo noo," no noooooo, noooooo, noooooo noooo

to depart.
no nooooo.




"Come back here, cook;--here, hand me those tongs;--now take that bit of
"Nooo nooo nooo, nooo;--nooo, nooo no noooo noooo;--noo nooo nooo noo no

steak there, and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it should be?
noooo noooo, noo nooo no no noo noooo nooo noooo nooooo no no nooooo no?

Take it, I say"--holding the tongs towards him--"take it, and taste it."
Nooo no, N noo"--noooooo noo noooo noooooo noo--"nooo no, noo noooo no."




Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a moment, the old negro
Noooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo no noo n nooooo, noo noo noooo

muttered, "Best cooked 'teak I eber taste; joosy, berry joosy."
nooooooo, "Nooo nooooo 'nooo N nooo noooo; noooo, noooo noooo."




"Cook," said Stubb, squaring himself once more; "do you belong to the
"Nooo," nooo Noooo, nooooooo noooooo nooo nooo; "no noo nooooo no noo

church?"
nooooo?"




"Passed one once in Cape-Down," said the old man sullenly.
"Nooooo noo nooo no Nooo-Nooo," nooo noo noo noo nooooooo.




"And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town, where
"Noo noo nooo nooo no nooo nooo nooooo n nooo nooooo no Nooo-Nooo, noooo

you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his
noo noooooooo noooooooo n nooo nooooo nooooooooo noo noooooo no noo

beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook! And yet you come here, and
noooooo nooooo-noooooooo, nooo noo, nooo! Noo noo noo nooo nooo, noo

tell me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?" said Stubb. "Where
nooo no nooo n nooooooo noo no noo noo nooo noo, no?" nooo Noooo. "Noooo

do you expect to go to, cook?"
no noo nooooo no no no, nooo?"




"Go to bed berry soon," he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.
"No no noo noooo nooo," no noooooo, nooo-noooooo no no noooo.




"Avast! heave to! I mean when you die, cook. It's an awful question. Now
"Noooo! noooo no! N nooo nooo noo noo, nooo. No'n no noooo nooooooo. Noo

what's your answer?"
nooo'n nooo nooooo?"




"When dis old brack man dies," said the negro slowly, changing his whole
"Nooo noo noo noooo noo nooo," nooo noo noooo nooooo, nooooooo noo noooo

air and demeanor, "he hisself won't go nowhere; but some bressed angel
noo noo nooooooo, "no noooooo noo'n no noooooo; noo nooo noooooo noooo

will come and fetch him."
nooo nooo noo noooo noo."




"Fetch him? How? In a coach and four, as they fetched Elijah? And fetch
"Noooo noo? Noo? No n noooo noo nooo, no nooo noooooo Nooooo? Noo noooo

him where?"
noo noooo?"




"Up dere," said Fleece, holding his tongs straight over his head, and
"No nooo," nooo Nooooo, noooooo noo noooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo, noo

keeping it there very solemnly.
noooooo no noooo nooo nooooooo.




"So, then, you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you
"No, nooo, noo nooooo no no no nooo noo nooo-noo, no noo, nooo, nooo noo

are dead? But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?
noo nooo? Noo noo'n noo nooo noo nooooo noo noooo, noo nooooo no nooo?

Main-top, eh?"
Nooo-noo, no?"




"Didn't say dat t'all," said Fleece, again in the sulks.
"Nooo'n noo noo n'noo," nooo Nooooo, noooo no noo noooo.




"You said up there, didn't you? and now look yourself, and see where
"Noo nooo no noooo, nooo'n noo? noo noo nooo nooooooo, noo noo noooo

your tongs are pointing. But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by
nooo noooo noo nooooooo. Noo, noooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo nooooo no

crawling through the lubber's hole, cook; but, no, no, cook, you don't
nooooooo noooooo noo nooooo'n nooo, nooo; noo, no, no, nooo, noo noo'n

get there, except you go the regular way, round by the rigging. It's a
noo noooo, nooooo noo no noo noooooo noo, noooo no noo noooooo. No'n n

ticklish business, but must be done, or else it's no go. But none of
nooooooo nooooooo, noo nooo no nooo, no nooo no'n no no. Noo nooo no

us are in heaven yet. Drop your tongs, cook, and hear my orders. Do ye
no noo no nooooo noo. Nooo nooo noooo, nooo, noo nooo no nooooo. No no

hear? Hold your hat in one hand, and clap t'other a'top of your heart,
nooo? Nooo nooo noo no noo nooo, noo nooo n'noooo n'noo no nooo noooo,

when I'm giving my orders, cook. What! that your heart, there?--that's
nooo N'n nooooo no nooooo, nooo. Nooo! nooo nooo noooo, noooo?--nooo'n

your gizzard! Aloft! aloft!--that's it--now you have it. Hold it there
nooo noooooo! Noooo! noooo!--nooo'n no--noo noo nooo no. Nooo no noooo

now, and pay attention."
noo, noo noo noooooooo."




"All 'dention," said the old black, with both hands placed as desired,
"Noo 'noooooo," nooo noo noo noooo, nooo nooo noooo nooooo no noooooo,

vainly wriggling his grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at
nooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo nooo, no no no noo nooo nooo no noooo no

one and the same time.
noo noo noo nooo nooo.




"Well then, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad,
"Nooo nooo, nooo, noo noo nooo noooo-noooo no noooo noo no nooo noo,

that I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don't
nooo N nooo noo no noo no noooo no nooo no nooooooo; noo noo nooo, noo'n

you? Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my
noo? Nooo, noo noo nooooo, nooo noo nooo noooooo noooo-noooo noo no

private table here, the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to
noooooo noooo nooo, noo noooooo, N'no nooo noo nooo no no no no noo no

spoil it by overdoing. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal
noooo no no noooooooo. Nooo noo noooo no noo nooo, noo nooo n nooo nooo

to it with the other; that done, dish it; d'ye hear? And now to-morrow,
no no nooo noo noooo; nooo nooo, nooo no; n'no nooo? Noo noo no-nooooo,

cook, when we are cutting in the fish, be sure you stand by to get
nooo, nooo no noo noooooo no noo nooo, no nooo noo noooo no no noo

the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle. As for the ends of the
noo nooo no noo nooo; nooo nooo noo no nooooo. No noo noo nooo no noo

flukes, have them soused, cook. There, now ye may go."
nooooo, nooo nooo nooooo, nooo. Noooo, noo no noo no."




But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.
Noo Nooooo noo nooooo noo noooo noooo noo, nooo no noo nooooooo.




"Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.
"Nooo, nooo no noooooo noo nooooo no-nooooo noooo no noo noo-noooo.

D'ye hear? away you sail, then.--Halloa! stop! make a bow before you
N'no nooo? nooo noo nooo, nooo.--Nooooo! nooo! nooo n noo nooooo noo

go.--Avast heaving again! Whale-balls for breakfast--don't forget."
no.--Noooo noooooo noooo! Noooo-noooo noo noooooooo--noo'n nooooo."




"Wish, by gor! whale eat him, 'stead of him eat whale. I'm bressed if
"Nooo, no noo! noooo noo noo, 'noooo no noo noo noooo. N'n noooooo no

he ain't more of shark dan Massa Shark hisself," muttered the old man,
no noo'n nooo no noooo noo Noooo Noooo noooooo," nooooooo noo noo noo,

limping away; with which sage ejaculation he went to his hammock.
noooooo nooo; nooo noooo nooo noooooooooo no nooo no noo noooooo.










CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo no n Nooo.







That mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp, and,
Nooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo noooo noo nooo, noo,

like Stubb, eat him by his own light, as you may say; this seems so
nooo Noooo, noo noo no noo noo noooo, no noo noo noo; nooo noooo no

outlandish a thing that one must needs go a little into the history and
nooooooooo n noooo nooo noo nooo noooo no n nooooo nooo noo noooooo noo

philosophy of it.
nooooooooo no no.




It is upon record, that three centuries ago the tongue of the Right
No no nooo nooooo, nooo noooo noooooooo noo noo nooooo no noo Noooo

Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in France, and commanded large
Noooo noo nooooooo n noooo nooooooo no Nooooo, noo noooooooo noooo

prices there. Also, that in Henry VIIIth's time, a certain cook of the
nooooo noooo. Nooo, nooo no Noooo NOOOoo'n nooo, n noooooo nooo no noo

court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to be
noooo nooooooo n nooooooo nooooo noo noooooooo no noooooooo noooo no no

eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, are a species of
noooo nooo noooooooo noooooooo, noooo, noo nooooooo, noo n noooooo no

whale. Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine eating. The
noooo. Noooooooo, nooooo, noo no nooo noo nooooooooo nooo nooooo. Noo

meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and being well
nooo no nooo nooo noooo noooo noo nooo no nooooooo noooo, noo noooo nooo

seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.
nooooooo noo nooooo noooo no noooo noo nooooo-noooo no nooo noooo.

The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them. They had a great
Noo noo noooo no Noooooooooo nooo nooo nooo no nooo. Nooo noo n noooo

porpoise grant from the crown.
nooooooo noooo nooo noo noooo.




The fact is, that among his hunters at least, the whale would by all
Noo nooo no, nooo noooo noo noooooo no noooo, noo noooo noooo no noo

hands be considered a noble dish, were there not so much of him; but
noooo no nooooooooo n noooo nooo, nooo noooo noo no nooo no noo; noo

when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one hundred feet
nooo noo nooo no noo nooo nooooo n nooo-noo nooooo noo noooooo nooo

long, it takes away your appetite. Only the most unprejudiced of men
nooo, no noooo nooo nooo nooooooo. Nooo noo nooo nooooooooooo no noo

like Stubb, nowadays partake of cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not
nooo Noooo, nooooooo noooooo no nooooo nooooo; noo noo Noooooooo noo noo

so fastidious. We all know how they live upon whales, and have rare
no nooooooooo. No noo nooo noo nooo nooo nooo nooooo, noo nooo nooo

old vintages of prime old train oil. Zogranda, one of their most famous
noo nooooooo no noooo noo noooo noo. Nooooooo, noo no noooo nooo nooooo

doctors, recommends strips of blubber for infants, as being exceedingly
noooooo, nooooooooo nooooo no noooooo noo noooooo, no noooo noooooooooo

juicy and nourishing. And this reminds me that certain Englishmen, who
noooo noo nooooooooo. Noo nooo noooooo no nooo noooooo Nooooooooo, noo

long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by a whaling vessel--that
nooo noo nooo nooooooooooo nooo no Noooooooo no n noooooo nooooo--nooo

these men actually lived for several months on the mouldy scraps of
noooo noo nooooooo noooo noo noooooo nooooo no noo nooooo nooooo no

whales which had been left ashore after trying out the blubber. Among
nooooo noooo noo nooo nooo nooooo noooo nooooo noo noo noooooo. Noooo

the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called "fritters"; which, indeed,
noo Noooo nooooooo noooo nooooo noo nooooo "nooooooo"; noooo, nooooo,

they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling something
nooo noooooo nooooooo, noooo noooo noo noooo, noo nooooooo noooooooo

like old Amsterdam housewives' dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh. They
nooo noo Noooooooo nooooooooo' noooo-nooo no noo-noooo, nooo noooo. Nooo

have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly
nooo nooo no noooooo nooo nooo noo nooo nooo-noooooo nooooooo noo nooooo

keep his hands off.
nooo noo noooo noo.




But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized dish, is his
Noo nooo noooooo noooooooooo noo noooo no n noooooooo nooo, no noo

exceeding richness. He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to be
noooooooo nooooooo. No no noo noooo noooo no no noo noo, noo noo no no

delicately good. Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating as
nooooooooo nooo. Nooo no noo nooo, noooo noooo no no nooo nooooo no

the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
noo noooooo'n (noooo no nooooooo n nooo nooo), nooo no noo nooo n noooo

pyramid of fat. But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that
noooooo no noo. Noo noo nooooooooo nooooo, noo noooo noo nooooo nooo

is; like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the
no; nooo noo noooooooooo, nooo-noooooo, noooo nooo no n nooooooo no noo

third month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for
noooo noooo no noo nooooo, noo noo noo nooo no nooooo n nooooooooo noo

butter. Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into
nooooo. Nooooooooooo, nooo nooooooo nooo n nooooo no noooooooo no nooo

some other substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try
nooo noooo noooooooo, noo nooo noooooooo no no. No noo nooo noo

watches of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their
noooooo no noo noooo no no n nooooo noooo noo noo nooooo no noo noooo

ship-biscuit into the huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile. Many
nooo-noooooo nooo noo nooo noo-nooo noo noo nooo noo noooo nooooo. Nooo

a good supper have I thus made.
n nooo nooooo nooo N nooo nooo.




In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.
No noo nooo no n noooo Noooo Noooo noo nooooo noo noooooooo n nooo nooo.

The casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump,
Noo nooooo no noo noooo no nooooo nooo nooo no noo, noo noo noo noooo,

whitish lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings),
noooooo noooo noooo noooooooo (noooooooo nooooooooo noo noooo nooooooo),

they are then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess,
nooo noo nooo noooo nooo noooo, noo nooooo nooo n nooo nooooooooo nooo,

in flavor somewhat resembling calves' head, which is quite a dish among
no nooooo nooooooo nooooooooo nooooo' nooo, noooo no noooo n nooo noooo

some epicures; and every one knows that some young bucks among the
nooo nooooooo; noo noooo noo noooo nooo nooo noooo noooo noooo noo

epicures, by continually dining upon calves' brains, by and by get to
nooooooo, no noooooooooo nooooo nooo nooooo' nooooo, no noo no noo no

have a little brains of their own, so as to be able to tell a
nooo n nooooo nooooo no noooo noo, no no no no nooo no nooo n

calf's head from their own heads; which, indeed, requires uncommon
nooo'n nooo nooo noooo noo noooo; noooo, nooooo, nooooooo nooooooo

discrimination. And that is the reason why a young buck with an
nooooooooooooo. Noo nooo no noo nooooo noo n noooo nooo nooo no

intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow one of the
noooooooooo noooooo nooo'n nooo nooooo noo, no noooooo noo no noo

saddest sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully at
noooooo nooooo noo noo noo. Noo nooo noooo n nooo no noooooooooooo no

him, with an "Et tu Brute!" expression.
noo, nooo no "No no Noooo!" nooooooooo.




It is not, perhaps, entirely because the whale is so excessively
No no noo, noooooo, nooooooo noooooo noo noooo no no noooooooooo

unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him with abhorrence;
nooooooo nooo nooooooo nooo no nooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo nooooooooo;

that appears to result, in some way, from the consideration before
nooo noooooo no nooooo, no nooo noo, nooo noo noooooooooooo nooooo

mentioned: i.e. that a man should eat a newly murdered thing of the sea,
noooooooo: n.n. nooo n noo nooooo noo n noooo nooooooo noooo no noo noo,

and eat it too by its own light. But no doubt the first man that ever
noo noo no noo no noo noo noooo. Noo no noooo noo noooo noo nooo nooo

murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung; and if
nooooooo no no noo nooooooo no n nooooooo; noooooo no noo nooo; noo no

he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been; and
no noo nooo noo no noo noooo no nooo, no noooooooo noooo nooo nooo; noo

he certainly deserved it if any murderer does. Go to the meat-market
no noooooooo nooooooo no no noo nooooooo nooo. No no noo nooo-nooooo

of a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the
no n Nooooooo noooo noo noo noo nooooo no nooo nooooo noooooo no no noo

long rows of dead quadrupeds. Does not that sight take a tooth out of
nooo nooo no nooo nooooooooo. Nooo noo nooo noooo nooo n noooo noo no

the cannibal's jaw? Cannibals? who is not a cannibal? I tell you it will
noo nooooooo'n noo? Noooooooo? noo no noo n nooooooo? N nooo noo no nooo

be more tolerable for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in
no nooo noooooooo noo noo Noooo nooo nooooo nooo n nooo nooooooooo no

his cellar against a coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that
noo nooooo noooooo n nooooo nooooo; no nooo no nooo noooooooo noo nooo

provident Fejee, I say, in the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized
noooooooo Noooo, N noo, no noo noo no nooooooo, nooo noo nooo, noooooooo

and enlightened gourmand, who nailest geese to the ground and feastest
noo noooooooooo nooooooo, noo noooooo noooo no noo nooooo noo nooooooo

on their bloated livers in thy pate-de-foie-gras.
no noooo noooooo nooooo no noo nooo-no-nooo-nooo.




But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he? and that is
Noo Noooo, no nooo noo noooo no noo noo noooo, nooo no? noo nooo no

adding insult to injury, is it? Look at your knife-handle, there, my
nooooo nooooo no nooooo, no no? Nooo no nooo noooo-nooooo, noooo, no

civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what is
noooooooo noo noooooooooo nooooooo nooooo noo nooo noooo nooo, nooo no

that handle made of?--what but the bones of the brother of the very ox
nooo nooooo nooo no?--nooo noo noo noooo no noo noooooo no noo nooo no

you are eating? And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring
noo noo nooooo? Noo nooo no noo nooo nooo noooo nooo, noooo noooooooo

that fat goose? With a feather of the same fowl. And with what quill did
nooo noo noooo? Nooo n noooooo no noo nooo nooo. Noo nooo nooo noooo noo

the Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders
noo Noooooooo no noo Noooooo noo noo Noooooooooo no Noooooo no Noooooo

formally indite his circulars? It is only within the last month or two
nooooooo nooooo noo noooooooo? No no nooo nooooo noo nooo noooo no noo

that that society passed a resolution to patronise nothing but steel
nooo nooo noooooo nooooo n nooooooooo no noooooooo noooooo noo noooo

pens.
nooo.










CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo Nooooooo.







When in the Southern Fishery, a captured Sperm Whale, after long and
Nooo no noo Nooooooo Noooooo, n nooooooo Noooo Noooo, noooo nooo noo

weary toil, is brought alongside late at night, it is not, as a general
noooo nooo, no noooooo noooooooo nooo no noooo, no no noo, no n noooooo

thing at least, customary to proceed at once to the business of cutting
noooo no noooo, noooooooo no noooooo no nooo no noo nooooooo no noooooo

him in. For that business is an exceedingly laborious one; is not very
noo no. Noo nooo nooooooo no no noooooooooo noooooooo noo; no noo nooo

soon completed; and requires all hands to set about it. Therefore, the
nooo noooooooo; noo nooooooo noo noooo no noo noooo no. Noooooooo, noo

common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm a'lee; and then send
nooooo noooo no no nooo no noo nooo; nooo noo nooo n'noo; noo nooo nooo

every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the reservation that,
noooo noo noooo no noo noooooo nooo nooooooo, nooo noo noooooooooo nooo,

until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is, two and two for
noooo nooo nooo, nooooo-noooooo noooo no nooo; nooo no, noo noo noo noo

an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the deck to see
no nooo, nooo nooooo, noo nooo no nooooooo noooo noooo noo nooo no noo

that all goes well.
nooo noo nooo nooo.




But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the Pacific, this plan will
Noo noooooooo, nooooooooo nooo noo Nooo no noo Noooooo, nooo nooo nooo

not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts of sharks gather
noo nooooo no noo; noooooo nooo nooooooooooo noooo no nooooo nooooo

round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six hours, say, on a
noooo noo nooooo noooooo, nooo nooo no nooo no noo noo noooo, noo, no n

stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by morning.
noooooo, nooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo no noooooo no noooooo.

In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not so
No nooo noooo noooo no noo noooo, noooooo, noooo noooo nooo no noo no

largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably
noooooo nooooo, noooo nooooooo nooooooo noo no no noooo nooooooooooo

diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades,
nooooooooo, no nooooooooo nooooooo nooo no nooo noooo noooooo-nooooo,

a procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to
n noooooooo noooooooooooooo, noooo, no nooo noooooooo, nooo noooo no

tickle them into still greater activity. But it was not thus in the
nooooo nooo nooo noooo noooooo nooooooo. Noo no noo noo nooo no noo

present case with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man
noooooo nooo nooo noo Nooooo'n nooooo; nooooo, no no nooo, noo noo

unaccustomed to such sights, to have looked over her side that night,
nooooooooooo no nooo nooooo, no nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo,

would have almost thought the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and
noooo nooo nooooo noooooo noo noooo noooo noo noo noo nooo nooooo, noo

those sharks the maggots in it.
noooo nooooo noo noooooo no no.




Nevertheless, upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
Nooooooooooo, nooo Noooo noooooo noo nooooo-noooo noooo noo nooooo noo

concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman
noooooooo; noo nooo, noooooooooo, Nooooooo noo n nooooooooo nooooo

came on deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for
nooo no nooo, no noooo nooooooooo noo noooooo noooo noo nooooo; noo

immediately suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering
noooooooooo nooooooooo noo noooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooooooo

three lanterns, so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid
noooo nooooooo, no nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo no noooo nooo noo nooooo

sea, these two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an
noo, noooo noo nooooooo, noooooo noooo nooo noooooo-nooooo, nooo no no

incessant murdering of the sharks,* by striking the keen steel deep
noooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo,* no nooooooo noo nooo noooo nooo

into their skulls, seemingly their only vital part. But in the foamy
nooo noooo nooooo, noooooooo noooo nooo noooo nooo. Noo no noo noooo

confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not
noooooooo no noooo noooo noo nooooooooo noooo, noo nooooooo noooo noo

always hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of the
nooooo noo noooo nooo; noo nooo noooooo noooo noo noooooooooo no noo

incredible ferocity of the foe. They viciously snapped, not only at each
nooooooooo nooooooo no noo noo. Nooo noooooooo noooooo, noo nooo no nooo

other's disembowelments, but like flexible bows, bent round, and bit
noooo'n noooooooooooooo, noo nooo nooooooo nooo, nooo noooo, noo noo

their own; till those entrails seemed swallowed over and over again by
noooo noo; nooo noooo nooooooo nooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooo noooo no

the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by the gaping wound. Nor was
noo nooo noooo, no no nooooooooo nooooo no noo nooooo noooo. Noo noo

this all. It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of these
nooo noo. No noo nooooo no nooooo nooo noo noooooo noo nooooo no noooo

creatures. A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality seemed to lurk in
noooooooo. N nooo no noooooo no Noooooooooo nooooooo nooooo no nooo no

their very joints and bones, after what might be called the individual
noooo nooo nooooo noo noooo, noooo nooo noooo no nooooo noo nooooooooo

life had departed. Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his skin,
nooo noo nooooooo. Nooooo noo noooooo no nooo noo noo nooo no noo nooo,

one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg's hand off, when he tried
noo no noooo nooooo nooooo nooo nooo Nooooooo'n nooo noo, nooo no noooo

to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.
no nooo nooo noo nooo noo no noo noooooooo noo.







*The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel;
*Noo noooooo-noooo nooo noo noooooo-no no nooo no noo nooo nooo noooo;

is about the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape,
no noooo noo noooooo no n noo'n nooooo nooo; noo no noooooo noooo,

corresponds to the garden implement after which it is named; only its
noooooooooo no noo nooooo noooooooo noooo noooo no no noooo; nooo noo

sides are perfectly flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than
noooo noo noooooooo nooo, noo noo noooo noo nooooooooooo nooooooo nooo

the lower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and when
noo noooo. Nooo nooooo no nooooo nooo no noooo no nooooooo; noo nooo

being used is occasionally honed, just like a razor. In its socket, a
noooo nooo no nooooooooooo noooo, nooo nooo n noooo. No noo nooooo, n

stiff pole, from twenty to thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
noooo nooo, nooo nooooo no nooooo nooo nooo, no nooooooo noo n nooooo.







"Queequeg no care what god made him shark," said the savage, agonizingly
"Nooooooo no nooo nooo noo nooo noo noooo," nooo noo nooooo, noooooooooo

lifting his hand up and down; "wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de
noooooo noo nooo no noo nooo; "nooooo Noooo noo no Noooooooo noo; noo no

god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin."
noo noo nooo noooo nooo no noo noo Noooo."










CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooo No.







It was a Saturday night, and such a Sabbath as followed! Ex officio
No noo n Nooooooo noooo, noo nooo n Noooooo no nooooooo! No noooooo

professors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The ivory Pequod was
nooooooooo no Noooooo nooooooo noo noo nooooooo. Noo noooo Nooooo noo

turned into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher. You would
nooooo nooo nooo nooooo n noooooo; noooo nooooo n noooooo. Noo noooo

have thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea gods.
nooo noooooo no nooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo noo nooo no noo noo nooo.




In the first place, the enormous cutting tackles, among other ponderous
No noo noooo noooo, noo nooooooo noooooo noooooo, noooo noooo noooooooo

things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green, and which
nooooo nooooooooo n noooooo no nooooo noooooooo noooooo noooo, noo noooo

no single man can possibly lift--this vast bunch of grapes was swayed up
no nooooo noo noo nooooooo nooo--nooo nooo noooo no nooooo noo nooooo no

to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head, the strongest
no noo nooo-noo noo nooooo nooooo no noo noooo nooo-nooo, noo noooooooo

point anywhere above a ship's deck. The end of the hawser-like rope
noooo nooooooo noooo n nooo'n nooo. Noo noo no noo nooooo-nooo nooo

winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass,
noooooo noooooo noooo noooooooooo, noo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo,

and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to
noo noo nooo noooo noooo no noo noooooo noo noooo nooo noo noooo; no

this block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was
nooo noooo noo noooo noooooo nooo, nooooooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo, noo

attached. And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb,
nooooooo. Noo noo noooooooo no nooooo nooo noo nooo, Nooooooo noo Noooo,

the mates, armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the
noo noooo, noooo nooo noooo nooo nooooo, noooo noooooo n nooo no noo

body for the insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two
nooo noo noo noooooooo no noo nooo nooo noooo noo noooooo no noo noo

side-fins. This done, a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole,
nooo-nooo. Nooo nooo, n noooo, nooooooooooo nooo no noo noooo noo nooo,

the hook is inserted, and the main body of the crew striking up a wild
noo nooo no nooooooo, noo noo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooooooo no n nooo

chorus, now commence heaving in one dense crowd at the windlass. When
nooooo, noo nooooooo noooooo no noo noooo noooo no noo nooooooo. Nooo

instantly, the entire ship careens over on her side; every bolt in
noooooooo, noo nooooo nooo noooooo nooo no noo nooo; noooo nooo no

her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in frosty weather; she
noo nooooo nooo noo nooo-noooo no no noo noooo no nooooo noooooo; noo

trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to the sky. More
nooooooo, noooooo, noo nooo noo nooooooo nooo-noooo no noo noo. Nooo

and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping heave of the
noo nooo noo noooo nooo no noo noooo, noooo noooo noooooo noooo no noo

windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till at last,
nooooooo no nooooooo no n noooooo noooo nooo noo noooooo; nooo no nooo,

a swift, startling snap is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls
n noooo, noooooooo nooo no noooo; nooo n noooo noooo noo nooo noooo

upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises
noooooo noo noooooooo nooo noo noooo, noo noo nooooooooo nooooo noooo

into sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the
nooo noooo nooooooo noooo no noo nooooooooo nooooooooooo noo no noo

first strip of blubber. Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely
noooo noooo no noooooo. Noo no noo noooooo noooooooo noo noooo noooooooo

as the rind does an orange, so is it stripped off from the body
no noo nooo nooo no nooooo, no no no nooooooo noo nooo noo nooo

precisely as an orange is sometimes stripped by spiralizing it. For the
noooooooo no no nooooo no noooooooo nooooooo no noooooooooo no. Noo noo

strain constantly kept up by the windlass continually keeps the whale
nooooo nooooooooo nooo no no noo nooooooo noooooooooo noooo noo noooo

rolling over and over in the water, and as the blubber in one strip
noooooo nooo noo nooo no noo noooo, noo no noo noooooo no noo noooo

uniformly peels off along the line called the "scarf," simultaneously
noooooooo noooo noo noooo noo nooo nooooo noo "noooo," nooooooooooooo

cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the mates; and just as fast as
noo no noo nooooo no Nooooooo noo Noooo, noo noooo; noo nooo no nooo no

it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very act itself, it is all the
no no nooo nooooo noo, noo nooooo no nooo nooo noo nooooo, no no noo noo

time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end grazes the
nooo noooo noooooo nooooo noo nooooo noooo nooo noo noooo noo nooooo noo

main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a moment
nooo-noo; noo noo no noo nooooooo nooo noooo noooooo, noo noo n nooooo

or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let
no noo noo nooooooooo noooo-nooooooo nooo noooo no noo noo no no noo

down from the sky, and every one present must take good heed to dodge
nooo nooo noo noo, noo noooo noo noooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo no noooo

it when it swings, else it may box his ears and pitch him headlong
no nooo no nooooo, nooo no noo noo noo nooo noo noooo noo nooooooo

overboard.
noooooooo.




One of the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon
Noo no noo noooooooo noooooooooo noo nooooooo nooo n nooo, nooo nooooo

called a boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices
nooooo n nooooooo-noooo, noo nooooooo noo nooooo no noooooooooo nooooo

out a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass. Into this
noo n nooooooooooo nooo no noo noooo nooo no noo noooooo nooo. Nooo nooo

hole, the end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked
nooo, noo noo no noo nooooo noooooooooo noooo nooooo no nooo nooooo

so as to retain a hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what
no no no nooooo n nooo nooo noo noooooo, no noooo no noooooo noo nooo

follows. Whereupon, this accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to
noooooo. Noooooooo, nooo nooooooooooo noooooooo, noooooo noo noooo no

stand off, once more makes a scientific dash at the mass, and with a few
noooo noo, nooo nooo noooo n nooooooooo nooo no noo nooo, noo nooo n noo

sidelong, desperate, lunging slicings, severs it completely in twain;
nooooooo, noooooooo, noooooo nooooooo, nooooo no nooooooooo no noooo;

so that while the short lower part is still fast, the long upper strip,
no nooo noooo noo noooo noooo nooo no noooo nooo, noo nooo noooo noooo,

called a blanket-piece, swings clear, and is all ready for lowering.
nooooo n noooooo-noooo, nooooo noooo, noo no noo noooo noo nooooooo.

The heavers forward now resume their song, and while the one tackle is
Noo noooooo noooooo noo nooooo noooo nooo, noo noooo noo noo nooooo no

peeling and hoisting a second strip from the whale, the other is slowly
noooooo noo nooooooo n nooooo noooo nooo noo noooo, noo noooo no nooooo

slackened away, and down goes the first strip through the main hatchway
noooooooo nooo, noo nooo nooo noo noooo noooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooo

right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the blubber-room. Into
noooo noooooo, nooo no noooooooooo nooooo nooooo noo noooooo-nooo. Nooo

this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling away the long
nooo nooooooo noooooooo nooooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooo nooo noo nooo

blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited serpents.
noooooo-noooo no no no nooo n noooo nooo nooo no noooooo nooooooo.

And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering
Noo nooo noo nooo nooooooo; noo noo noooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo

simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing,
nooooooooooooo; nooo noooo noo nooooooo noooooo, noo noooooo noooooo,

the blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship
noo noooooo-nooo noooooooo noooooo, noo noooo nooooooo, noo nooo

straining, and all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the
noooooooo, noo noo noooo nooooooo nooooooooooo, no noo no noooooooo noo

general friction.
noooooo nooooooo.










CHAPTER 68. The Blanket.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooo.







I have given no small attention to that not unvexed subject, the skin of
N nooo noooo no noooo noooooooo no nooo noo noooooo noooooo, noo nooo no

the whale. I have had controversies about it with experienced whalemen
noo noooo. N nooo noo noooooooooooo noooo no nooo noooooooooo nooooooo

afloat, and learned naturalists ashore. My original opinion remains
nooooo, noo noooooo noooooooooo nooooo. No nooooooo noooooo noooooo

unchanged; but it is only an opinion.
noooooooo; noo no no nooo no noooooo.




The question is, what and where is the skin of the whale? Already you
Noo nooooooo no, nooo noo noooo no noo nooo no noo noooo? Noooooo noo

know what his blubber is. That blubber is something of the consistence
nooo nooo noo noooooo no. Nooo noooooo no noooooooo no noo noooooooooo

of firm, close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and
no nooo, noooo-noooooo nooo, noo noooooo, nooo noooooo noo noooooo, noo

ranges from eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.
nooooo nooo noooo no noo no nooooo noo noooooo nooooo no noooooooo.




Now, however preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature's
Noo, noooooo nooooooooooo no noo no noooo nooo no nooo no noo nooooooo'n

skin as being of that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point
nooo no noooo no nooo nooo no noooooooooo noo noooooooo, noo no noooo

of fact these are no arguments against such a presumption; because you
no nooo noooo noo no noooooooo noooooo nooo n noooooooooo; noooooo noo

cannot raise any other dense enveloping layer from the whale's body but
nooooo noooo noo noooo noooo nooooooooo noooo nooo noo noooo'n nooo noo

that same blubber; and the outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if
nooo nooo noooooo; noo noo noooooooo nooooooooo noooo no noo nooooo, no

reasonably dense, what can that be but the skin? True, from the unmarred
nooooooooo noooo, nooo noo nooo no noo noo nooo? Nooo, nooo noo nooooooo

dead body of the whale, you may scrape off with your hand an infinitely
nooo nooo no noo noooo, noo noo nooooo noo nooo nooo nooo no nooooooooo

thin, transparent substance, somewhat resembling the thinnest shreds
nooo, noooooooooo noooooooo, nooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooo nooooo

of isinglass, only it is almost as flexible and soft as satin; that is,
no noooooooo, nooo no no nooooo no nooooooo noo nooo no noooo; nooo no,

previous to being dried, when it not only contracts and thickens, but
nooooooo no noooo noooo, nooo no noo nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo, noo

becomes rather hard and brittle. I have several such dried bits, which
noooooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo. N nooo noooooo nooo noooo nooo, noooo

I use for marks in my whale-books. It is transparent, as I said before;
N noo noo noooo no no noooo-noooo. No no noooooooooo, no N nooo nooooo;

and being laid upon the printed page, I have sometimes pleased myself
noo noooo nooo nooo noo noooooo nooo, N nooo noooooooo noooooo nooooo

with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence. At any rate, it is
nooo nooooooo no noooooo n nooooooooo noooooooo. No noo nooo, no no

pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles, as you may
nooooooo no nooo noooo nooooo noooooo noooo noo nooooooooo, no noo noo

say. But what I am driving at here is this. That same infinitely thin,
noo. Noo nooo N no noooooo no nooo no nooo. Nooo nooo nooooooooo nooo,

isinglass substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the
noooooooo noooooooo, noooo, N noooo, noooooo noo nooooo nooo no noo

whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as
noooo, no noo no nooo no no nooooooo no noo nooo no noo nooooooo, no

the skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say,
noo nooo no noo nooo, no no noooo; noo no nooo nooooo nooooooooo no noo,

that the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender
nooo noo nooooo nooo no noo nooooooooo noooo no noooooo noo nooo nooooo

than the skin of a new-born child. But no more of this.
nooo noo nooo no n noo-nooo noooo. Noo no nooo no nooo.




Assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale; then, when this skin,
Nooooooo noo noooooo no no noo nooo no noo noooo; nooo, nooo nooo nooo,

as in the case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one
no no noo nooo no n nooo noooo Noooo Noooo, nooo noooo noo nooo no noo

hundred barrels of oil; and, when it is considered that, in quantity, or
noooooo noooooo no noo; noo, nooo no no nooooooooo nooo, no nooooooo, no

rather weight, that oil, in its expressed state, is only three fourths,
nooooo nooooo, nooo noo, no noo noooooooo noooo, no nooo noooo noooooo,

and not the entire substance of the coat; some idea may hence be had
noo noo noo nooooo noooooooo no noo nooo; nooo nooo noo noooo no noo

of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose mere
no noo nooooooooooo no nooo nooooooo nooo, n nooo nooo no noooo nooo

integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning ten barrels
nooooooooo nooooo nooo n nooo no nooooo no nooo. Noooooooo noo noooooo

to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters
no noo noo, noo nooo noo nooo noo noo noo nooooo no nooo noooo nooooooo

of the stuff of the whale's skin.
no noo noooo no noo noooo'n nooo.




In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not the least among
No nooo, noo noooooo noooooo no noo Noooo Noooo no noo noo noooo noooo

the many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all over obliquely
noo nooo noooooo no nooooooo. Nooooo nooooooooo no no noo nooo noooooooo

crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick array,
noooooo noo no-noooooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo noooo no noooo noooo,

something like those in the finest Italian line engravings. But these
noooooooo nooo noooo no noo nooooo Noooooo nooo nooooooooo. Noo noooo

marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
noooo no noo nooo no no noooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooooo noooo

mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved
noooooooo, noo nooo no no nooo noooooo no, no no nooo nooo nooooooo

upon the body itself. Nor is this all. In some instances, to the quick,
nooo noo nooo nooooo. Noo no nooo noo. No nooo noooooooo, no noo noooo,

observant eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but
noooooooo noo, noooo nooooo noooo, no no n noooooooo noooooooo, noo

afford the ground for far other delineations. These are hieroglyphical;
nooooo noo nooooo noo noo noooo nooooooooooo. Noooo noo nooooooooooooo;

that is, if you call those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids
nooo no, no noo nooo noooo nooooooooo noooooo no noo noooo no nooooooo

hieroglyphics, then that is the proper word to use in the present
noooooooooooo, nooo nooo no noo nooooo nooo no noo no noo noooooo

connexion. By my retentive memory of the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm
noooooooo. No no noooooooo nooooo no noo noooooooooooo nooo noo Noooo

Whale in particular, I was much struck with a plate representing the old
Noooo no nooooooooo, N noo nooo nooooo nooo n noooo nooooooooooo noo noo

Indian characters chiselled on the famous hieroglyphic palisades on
Nooooo nooooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo nooooooooooo noooooooo no

the banks of the Upper Mississippi. Like those mystic rocks, too, the
noo noooo no noo Noooo Noooooooooo. Nooo noooo nooooo noooo, noo, noo

mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable. This allusion to the Indian
nooooo-nooooo noooo noooooo nooooooooooooo. Nooo nooooooo no noo Nooooo

rocks reminds me of another thing. Besides all the other phenomena which
noooo noooooo no no noooooo noooo. Noooooo noo noo noooo noooooooo noooo

the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not seldom displays the
noo nooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo nooooooo, no noo nooooo nooooooo noo

back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great part of the
nooo, noo nooo nooooooooo noo nooooo, noooooo no noooo nooo no noo

regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches,
noooooo nooooo nooooooooo, no nooooo no nooooooo nooo noooooooo,

altogether of an irregular, random aspect. I should say that those New
nooooooooo no no noooooooo, nooooo nooooo. N nooooo noo nooo noooo Noo

England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks
Noooooo noooo no noo noo-noooo, noooo Noooooo nooooooo no nooo noo noooo

of violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs--I should say,
no noooooo nooooooo noooooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo--N nooooo noo,

that those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this
nooo noooo noooo nooo noo n nooooo nooooooo noo Noooo Noooo no nooo

particular. It also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are
nooooooooo. No nooo noooo no no nooo nooo noooooooo no noo noooo noo

probably made by hostile contact with other whales; for I have most
nooooooo nooo no noooooo noooooo nooo noooo nooooo; noo N nooo nooo

remarked them in the large, full-grown bulls of the species.
nooooooo nooo no noo noooo, nooo-noooo noooo no noo noooooo.




A word or two more concerning this matter of the skin or blubber of
N nooo no noo nooo nooooooooo nooo nooooo no noo nooo no noooooo no

the whale. It has already been said, that it is stript from him in long
noo noooo. No noo noooooo nooo nooo, nooo no no nooooo nooo noo no nooo

pieces, called blanket-pieces. Like most sea-terms, this one is very
nooooo, nooooo noooooo-nooooo. Nooo nooo noo-noooo, nooo noo no nooo

happy and significant. For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber
noooo noo noooooooooo. Noo noo noooo no nooooo noooo no no noo noooooo

as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still better, an Indian poncho
no no n nooo noooooo no noooooooooo; no, noooo nooooo, no Nooooo nooooo

slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity. It is by reason of this
noooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooooooo noo noooooooo. No no no nooooo no nooo

cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to keep himself
nooo nooooooooo no noo nooo, nooo noo noooo no noooooo no nooo noooooo

comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides. What would
noooooooooo no noo nooooooo, no noo nooo, noooo, noo noooo. Nooo noooo

become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of the
nooooo no n Noooooooo noooo, noo, no noooo nooooooooo, noo nooo no noo

North, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout? True, other fish are
Noooo, no nooooooooo nooo noo nooo noooooo? Nooo, noooo nooo noo

found exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it
noooo noooooooooo noooo no noooo Noooooooooo nooooo; noo noooo, no no

observed, are your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies
nooooooo, noo nooo nooo-noooooo, nooooooo nooo, noooo nooo noooooo

are refrigerators; creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of
noo noooooooooooo; noooooooo, nooo nooo nooooooooo noooo noo noo no

an iceberg, as a traveller in winter would bask before an inn fire;
no noooooo, no n noooooooo no nooooo noooo nooo nooooo no noo nooo;

whereas, like man, the whale has lungs and warm blood. Freeze his blood,
noooooo, nooo noo, noo noooo noo noooo noo nooo noooo. Nooooo noo noooo,

and he dies. How wonderful is it then--except after explanation--that
noo no nooo. Noo noooooooo no no nooo--nooooo noooo noooooooooo--nooo

this great monster, to whom corporeal warmth is as indispensable as it
nooo noooo noooooo, no nooo noooooooo nooooo no no noooooooooooo no no

is to man; how wonderful that he should be found at home, immersed
no no noo; noo noooooooo nooo no nooooo no noooo no nooo, nooooooo

to his lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, when seamen fall
no noo nooo noo nooo no noooo Nooooo nooooo! noooo, nooo nooooo nooo

overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards, perpendicularly
noooooooo, nooo noo noooooooo noooo, nooooo nooooooooo, noooooooooooooo

frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found glued
nooooo nooo noo nooooo no nooooo no noo, no n noo no noooo noooo

in amber. But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by
no noooo. Noo nooo nooooooooo no no no nooo, no noo nooo nooooo no

experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a
nooooooooo, nooo noo noooo no n Noooo noooo no nooooo nooo nooo no n

Borneo negro in summer.
Nooooo noooo no nooooo.




It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong
No nooo nooo no no, nooo nooooo no noo noo nooo nooooo no n nooooo

individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
nooooooooo nooooooo, noo noo nooo nooooo no noooo noooo, noo noo nooo

virtue of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyself after
nooooo no nooooooo nooooooooooo. No, noo! nooooo noo noooo noooooo noooo

the whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too, live in
noo noooo! No nooo, noo, nooooo nooo noooo noo. No nooo, noo, nooo no

this world without being of it. Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood
nooo noooo noooooo noooo no no. No nooo no noo noooooo; nooo noo noooo

fluid at the Pole. Like the great dome of St. Peter's, and like the
noooo no noo Nooo. Nooo noo noooo nooo no No. Noooo'n, noo nooo noo

great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of thine own.
noooo noooo, nooooo, N noo! no noo noooooo n noooooooooo no noooo noo.




But how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things! Of erections,
Noo noo nooo noo noo nooooooo no noooo noooo nooo nooooo! No noooooooo,

how few are domed like St. Peter's! of creatures, how few vast as the
noo noo noo noooo nooo No. Noooo'n! no noooooooo, noo noo nooo no noo

whale!
noooo!










CHAPTER 69. The Funeral.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooo.







Haul in the chains! Let the carcase go astern!
Nooo no noo nooooo! Noo noo noooooo no nooooo!




The vast tackles have now done their duty. The peeled white body of the
Noo nooo noooooo nooo noo nooo noooo nooo. Noo nooooo noooo nooo no noo

beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue,
nooooooo noooo noooooo nooo n nooooo noooooooo; nooooo noooooo no noo,

it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk. It is still colossal.
no noo noo noooooooooo nooo nooooooo no nooo. No no noooo nooooooo.

Slowly it floats more and more away, the water round it torn and
Nooooo no nooooo nooo noo nooo nooo, noo noooo noooo no nooo noo

splashed by the insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious
nooooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo, noo noo noo noooo noooo nooo noooooooo

flights of screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting
noooooo no noooooooo noooo, noooo noooo noo nooo no nooo noooooooo

poniards in the whale. The vast white headless phantom floats further
nooooooo no noo noooo. Noo nooo noooo nooooooo noooooo nooooo noooooo

and further from the ship, and every rod that it so floats, what seem
noo noooooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooo noo nooo no no nooooo, nooo nooo

square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls, augment the murderous
nooooo noooo no nooooo noo noooo noooo no noooo, noooooo noo noooooooo

din. For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that hideous
noo. Noo noooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooo nooooooooo nooo nooo noooooo

sight is seen. Beneath the unclouded and mild azure sky, upon the fair
noooo no nooo. Noooooo noo noooooooo noo nooo noooo noo, nooo noo nooo

face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous breezes, that great mass
nooo no noo nooooooo noo, nooooo no noo nooooo noooooo, nooo noooo nooo

of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite perspectives.
no noooo nooooo no noo no, nooo nooo no nooooooo nooooooooooo.




There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral! The sea-vultures all in
Noooo'n n nooo noooooo noo nooo noooooo noooooo! Noo noo-nooooooo noo no

pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in black or speckled.
noooo nooooooo, noo noo-nooooo noo noooooooooooo no noooo no nooooooo.

In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I ween, if
No nooo noo noo no nooo noooo nooo nooooo noo noooo, N nooo, no

peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral they
nooooooooooo no noo nooooo no; noo nooo noo noooooo no noo noooooo nooo

most piously do pounce. Oh, horrible vultureism of earth! from which not
nooo noooooo no nooooo. No, nooooooo nooooooooo no noooo! nooo noooo noo

the mightiest whale is free.
noo noooooooo noooo no nooo.




Nor is this the end. Desecrated as the body is, a vengeful ghost
Noo no nooo noo noo. Nooooooooo no noo nooo no, n nooooooo noooo

survives and hovers over it to scare. Espied by some timid man-of-war or
nooooooo noo nooooo nooo no no noooo. Nooooo no nooo noooo noo-no-noo no

blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance obscuring the
nooooooooo noooooooo-nooooo nooo nooo, nooo noo nooooooo noooooooo noo

swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass floating in
nooooooo noooo, nooooooooooo noooo noooo noo noooo nooo nooooooo no

the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it; straightway the
noo noo, noo noo noooo noooo noooooo nooo noooooo no; noooooooooo noo

whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down in the
noooo'n noooooooo nooooo, nooo noooooooo noooooo no noo nooo no noo

log--SHOALS, ROCKS, AND BREAKERS HEREABOUTS: BEWARE! And for years
noo--NOOOOO, NOOOO, NOO NOOOOOOO NOOOOOOOOO: NOOOOO! Noo noo noooo

afterwards, perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly
nooooooooo, noooooo, noooo nooo noo noooo; noooooo nooo no no noooo

sheep leap over a vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there
noooo nooo nooo n nooooo, noooooo noooo nooooo nooooooooo nooooo noooo

when a stick was held. There's your law of precedents; there's your
nooo n noooo noo nooo. Noooo'n nooo noo no nooooooooo; noooo'n nooo

utility of traditions; there's the story of your obstinate survival of
noooooo no nooooooooo; noooo'n noo noooo no nooo noooooooo nooooooo no

old beliefs never bottomed on the earth, and now not even hovering in
noo noooooo noooo nooooooo no noo noooo, noo noo noo nooo nooooooo no

the air! There's orthodoxy!
noo noo! Noooo'n noooooooo!




Thus, while in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror
Nooo, noooo no nooo noo noooo noooo'n nooo noo nooo nooo n nooo nooooo

to his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a
no noo nooo, no noo noooo noo noooo noooooo n noooooooo noooo no n

world.
noooo.




Are you a believer in ghosts, my friend? There are other ghosts than
Noo noo n nooooooo no nooooo, no nooooo? Noooo noo noooo nooooo nooo

the Cock-Lane one, and far deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in
noo Nooo-Nooo noo, noo noo nooooo noo nooo Nooooo Noooooo noo noooooo no

them.
nooo.










CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooo.







It should not have been omitted that previous to completely stripping
No nooooo noo nooo nooo noooooo nooo nooooooo no nooooooooo noooooooo

the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded. Now, the beheading of the
noo nooo no noo noooooooo, no noo nooooooo. Noo, noo noooooooo no noo

Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon which experienced
Noooo Noooo no n nooooooooo nooooooooo nooo, nooo noooo noooooooooo

whale surgeons very much pride themselves: and not without reason.
noooo nooooooo nooo nooo noooo nooooooooo: noo noo noooooo nooooo.




Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck;
Nooooooo nooo noo noooo noo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo no nooooo n nooo;

on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
no noo nooooooo, noooo noo nooo noo nooo nooo no nooo, noooo, no nooo

very place, is the thickest part of him. Remember, also, that the
nooo noooo, no noo nooooooo nooo no noo. Nooooooo, nooo, nooo noo

surgeon must operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening
noooooo nooo noooooo nooo noooo, nooo noooo no noo nooo noooooooooo

between him and his subject, and that subject almost hidden in a
noooooo noo noo noo noooooo, noo nooo noooooo nooooo nooooo no n

discoloured, rolling, and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea. Bear
noooooooooo, noooooo, noo nooooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooo noo. Nooo

in mind, too, that under these untoward circumstances he has to cut many
no nooo, noo, nooo noooo noooo nooooooo noooooooooooo no noo no noo nooo

feet deep in the flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, without so
nooo nooo no noo noooo; noo no nooo noooooooooooo nooooo, noooooo no

much as getting one single peep into the ever-contracting gash thus
nooo no noooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo-noooooooooo nooo nooo

made, he must skilfully steer clear of all adjacent, interdicted parts,
nooo, no nooo noooooooo noooo noooo no noo nooooooo, noooooooooo noooo,

and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion
noo noooooo nooooo noo noooo no n nooooooo noooo nooo no noo noooooooo

into the skull. Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb's boast, that he
nooo noo noooo. No noo noo nooooo, nooo, no Noooo'n noooo, nooo no

demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale?
nooooooo noo noo noooooo no nooooo n noooo noooo?




When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a cable
Nooo noooo noooooo, noo nooo no noooooo nooooo noo nooo noooo no n noooo

till the body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a small whale
nooo noo nooo no nooooooo. Nooo nooo, no no nooooo no n noooo noooo

it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of. But, with a full
no no noooooo no nooo no no nooooooooooo nooooooo no. Noo, nooo n nooo

grown leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale's head embraces
noooo noooooooo nooo no nooooooooo; noo noo noooo noooo'n nooo nooooooo

nearly one third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend such a
nooooo noo noooo no noo nooooo nooo, noo nooooooooo no noooooo nooo n

burden as that, even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as
nooooo no nooo, nooo no noo noooooo noooooo no n nooooo, nooo nooo no

vain a thing as to attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers' scales.
nooo n noooo no no noooooo nooooooo n Noooo nooo no noooooooo' nooooo.




The Pequod's whale being decapitated and the body stripped, the head was
Noo Nooooo'n noooo noooo noooooooooo noo noo nooo nooooooo, noo nooo noo

hoisted against the ship's side--about half way out of the sea, so that
noooooo noooooo noo nooo'n nooo--noooo nooo noo noo no noo noo, no nooo

it might yet in great part be buoyed up by its native element. And there
no noooo noo no noooo nooo no nooooo no no noo nooooo noooooo. Noo noooo

with the strained craft steeply leaning over to it, by reason of the
nooo noo nooooooo noooo noooooo noooooo nooo no no, no nooooo no noo

enormous downward drag from the lower mast-head, and every yard-arm
nooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo noooo nooo-nooo, noo noooo nooo-noo

on that side projecting like a crane over the waves; there, that
no nooo nooo nooooooooo nooo n noooo nooo noo noooo; noooo, nooo

blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod's waist like the giant
noooo-nooooooo nooo nooo no noo Nooooo'n noooo nooo noo noooo

Holofernes's from the girdle of Judith.
Nooooooooo'n nooo noo nooooo no Nooooo.




When this last task was accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went
Nooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooooooooooo no noo nooo, noo noo nooooo nooo

below to their dinner. Silence reigned over the before tumultuous but
noooo no noooo nooooo. Noooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooooooo noo

now deserted deck. An intense copper calm, like a universal yellow
noo nooooooo nooo. No noooooo nooooo nooo, nooo n noooooooo nooooo

lotus, was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leaves upon
noooo, noo nooo noo nooo noooooooo noo noooooooo noooooooooo nooooo nooo

the sea.
noo noo.




A short space elapsed, and up into this noiselessness came Ahab alone
N noooo noooo noooooo, noo no nooo nooo noooooooooooo nooo Nooo noooo

from his cabin. Taking a few turns on the quarter-deck, he paused to
nooo noo noooo. Nooooo n noo noooo no noo noooooo-nooo, no nooooo no

gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the main-chains he
nooo nooo noo nooo, nooo nooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo-nooooo no

took Stubb's long spade--still remaining there after the whale's
nooo Noooo'n nooo noooo--noooo noooooooo noooo noooo noo noooo'n

Decapitation--and striking it into the lower part of the half-suspended
Nooooooooooo--noo nooooooo no nooo noo noooo nooo no noo nooo-noooooooo

mass, placed its other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so stood
nooo, nooooo noo noooo noo nooooo-nooo noooo noo noo, noo no noooo

leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.
noooooo nooo nooo nooo noooooooooo noooo no nooo nooo.




It was a black and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so
No noo n noooo noo nooooo nooo; noo noooooo noooo no noo noooo no no

intense a calm, it seemed the Sphynx's in the desert. "Speak, thou vast
noooooo n nooo, no nooooo noo Nooooo'n no noo nooooo. "Noooo, nooo nooo

and venerable head," muttered Ahab, "which, though ungarnished with a
noo noooooooo nooo," nooooooo Nooo, "noooo, nooooo noooooooooo nooo n

beard, yet here and there lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head,
noooo, noo nooo noo noooo noooooo noooo nooo nooooo; noooo, nooooo nooo,

and tell us the secret thing that is in thee. Of all divers, thou hast
noo nooo no noo nooooo noooo nooo no no nooo. No noo nooooo, nooo nooo

dived the deepest. That head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has
noooo noo noooooo. Nooo nooo nooo noooo noo noooo noo noo nooooo, noo

moved amid this world's foundations. Where unrecorded names and navies
noooo nooo nooo noooo'n noooooooooo. Noooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooooo

rust, and untold hopes and anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this
nooo, noo nooooo noooo noo noooooo noo; noooo no noo noooooooo nooo nooo

frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of the drowned; there,
noooooo noooo no noooooooo nooo noooo no nooooooo no noo noooooo; noooo,

in that awful water-land, there was thy most familiar home. Thou hast
no nooo noooo noooo-nooo, noooo noo noo nooo nooooooo nooo. Nooo nooo

been where bell or diver never went; hast slept by many a sailor's side,
nooo noooo nooo no noooo noooo nooo; nooo noooo no nooo n nooooo'n nooo,

where sleepless mothers would give their lives to lay them down. Thou
noooo noooooooo noooooo noooo nooo noooo noooo no noo nooo nooo. Nooo

saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their flaming ship; heart
noo'no noo nooooo nooooo nooo noooooo nooo noooo noooooo nooo; noooo

to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to each other, when
no noooo nooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo nooo; nooo no nooo noooo, nooo

heaven seemed false to them. Thou saw'st the murdered mate when tossed
nooooo nooooo noooo no nooo. Nooo noo'no noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooo

by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the deeper
no noooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo; noo noooo no nooo nooo noo nooooo

midnight of the insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on
nooooooo no noo noooooooo noo; noo noo noooooooo noooo nooooo no

unharmed--while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that
nooooooo--noooo noooo nooooooooo nooooooo noo noooooooooo nooo nooo

would have borne a righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms. O
noooo nooo noooo n noooooooo noooooo no nooooooooooo, noooooo nooo. N

head! thou hast seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of
nooo! nooo nooo nooo nooooo no noooo noo noooooo noo nooo no noooooo no

Abraham, and not one syllable is thine!"
Noooooo, noo noo noo nooooooo no noooo!"




"Sail ho!" cried a triumphant voice from the main-mast-head.
"Nooo no!" noooo n nooooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo-nooo-nooo.




"Aye? Well, now, that's cheering," cried Ahab, suddenly erecting
"Noo? Nooo, noo, nooo'n nooooooo," noooo Nooo, nooooooo nooooooo

himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow.
noooooo, noooo noooo noooooo-nooooo noooo noooo nooo noo nooo.

"That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better
"Nooo nooooo noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo noooo nooooo noooooo n nooooo

man.--Where away?"
noo.--Noooo nooo?"




"Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze to
"Noooo nooooo no noo noooooooo noo, noo, noo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo no

us!
no!




"Better and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way,
"Nooooo noo nooooo, noo. Noooo noo No. Nooo noooo nooo noooo nooo noo,

and to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man!
noo no no nooooooooooooo noooo noo nooooo! N Nooooo, noo N nooo no noo!

how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not the smallest
noo noo nooooo noo noooooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooooo! noo noo nooooooo

atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in mind."
nooo noooo no noooo no nooooo, noo noo noo noooooo noooooooo no nooo."










CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam's Story.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooooo'n Noooo.







Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster than
Nooo no nooo, nooo noo nooooo nooo no; noo noo nooooo nooo nooooo nooo

the ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock.
noo nooo, noo nooo noo Nooooo noooo no nooo.




By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned mast-heads
No noo no, noooooo noo noooo noo nooooooo'n noooo noo nooooo nooo-noooo

proved her a whale-ship. But as she was so far to windward, and shooting
nooooo noo n noooo-nooo. Noo no noo noo no noo no nooooooo, noo nooooooo

by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod could
no, nooooooooo nooooo n noooooo no nooo noooo nooooo, noo Nooooo noooo

not hope to reach her. So the signal was set to see what response would
noo nooo no noooo noo. No noo nooooo noo noo no noo nooo nooooooo noooo

be made.
no nooo.




Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the ships of
Nooo no no nooo, nooo nooo noo noooooo no nooooooo noooooo, noo noooo no

the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which signals
noo Nooooooo Noooo Noooo nooo nooo n noooooo nooooo; noo noooo noooooo

being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
noooo noooooooo no n nooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooooooooo noooooo

attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, the whale
nooooooo, noooo noooooo no nooooooo nooo no. Noooooo, noo noooo

commanders are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at
nooooooooo noo noooooo no noooooooo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo, nooo no

considerable distances and with no small facility.
nooooooooooo noooooooo noo nooo no noooo nooooooo.




The Pequod's signal was at last responded to by the stranger's setting
Noo Nooooo'n nooooo noo no nooo noooooooo no no noo nooooooo'n noooooo

her own; which proved the ship to be the Jeroboam of Nantucket. Squaring
noo noo; noooo nooooo noo nooo no no noo Nooooooo no Noooooooo. Nooooooo

her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam under the Pequod's lee, and
noo noooo, noo nooo nooo, nooooo noooo noooo noo Nooooo'n noo, noo

lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the side-ladder was being
noooooo n nooo; no nooo nooo nooo; noo, no noo nooo-nooooo noo noooo

rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting captain, the
nooooo no Nooooooo'n noooo no noooooooooo noo nooooooo noooooo, noo

stranger in question waved his hand from his boat's stern in token
nooooooo no nooooooo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo'n noooo no noooo

of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary. It turned out that
no nooo nooooooooo noooo nooooooo noooooooooo. No nooooo noo nooo

the Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her
noo Nooooooo noo n noooooooo nooooooo no noooo, noo nooo Nooooo, noo

captain, was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company. For, though
noooooo, noo noooooo no noooooooo noo Nooooo'n noooooo. Noo, nooooo

himself and boat's crew remained untainted, and though his ship was half
noooooo noo nooo'n nooo nooooooo noooooooo, noo nooooo noo nooo noo nooo

a rifle-shot off, and an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing
n noooo-nooo noo, noo no noooooooooooo noo noo noo noooooo noo noooooo

between; yet conscientiously adhering to the timid quarantine of the
noooooo; noo noooooooooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo nooooooooo no noo

land, he peremptorily refused to come into direct contact with the
nooo, no nooooooooooo noooooo no nooo nooo nooooo noooooo nooo noo

Pequod.
Nooooo.




But this did by no means prevent all communications. Preserving an
Noo nooo noo no no noooo noooooo noo nooooooooooooo. Nooooooooo no

interval of some few yards between itself and the ship, the Jeroboam's
nooooooo no nooo noo noooo noooooo nooooo noo noo nooo, noo Nooooooo'n

boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel to the
nooo no noo nooooooooo noo no noo nooo noooooooo no nooo nooooooo no noo

Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this time it blew
Nooooo, no noo noooooo nooooo noooooo noo noo (noo no nooo nooo no nooo

very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at times by
nooo noooo), nooo noo nooo-noooooo noooo; nooooo, nooooo, no noooo no

the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed some
noo nooooo noooo no n noooo noooooo nooo, noo nooo noooo no nooooo nooo

way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings
noo noooo; noo noooo no nooo noooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo nooooooo

again. Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
noooo. Noooooo no nooo, noo noooo noo nooo noooooooooooo noo noo nooo, n

conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
nooooooooooo noo noooooooo noooooo noo noo noooooo; noo no noooooooo noo

without still another interruption of a very different sort.
noooooo noooo noooooo nooooooooooo no n nooo noooooooo nooo.




Pulling an oar in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular
Noooooo no noo no noo Nooooooo'n nooo, noo n noo no n nooooooo

appearance, even in that wild whaling life where individual notabilities
nooooooooo, nooo no nooo nooo noooooo nooo noooo nooooooooo nooooooooooo

make up all totalities. He was a small, short, youngish man, sprinkled
nooo no noo nooooooooo. No noo n noooo, noooo, nooooooo noo, noooooooo

all over his face with freckles, and wearing redundant yellow hair. A
noo nooo noo nooo nooo nooooooo, noo noooooo noooooooo nooooo nooo. N

long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a faded walnut tinge enveloped
nooo-noooooo, nooooooooooooo-noo nooo no n noooo nooooo noooo noooooooo

him; the overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up on his wrists. A
noo; noo noooooooooo noooooo no noooo nooo nooooo no no noo nooooo. N

deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
nooo, noooooo, noooooo nooooooo noo no noo nooo.




So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had
No nooo no nooo nooooo noo nooo noooo nooooooo, Noooo noo

exclaimed--"That's he! that's he!--the long-togged scaramouch the
noooooooo--"Nooo'n no! nooo'n no!--noo nooo-nooooo nooooooooo noo

Town-Ho's company told us of!" Stubb here alluded to a strange story
Nooo-No'n noooooo nooo no no!" Noooo nooo noooooo no n noooooo noooo

told of the Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some time
nooo no noo Nooooooo, noo n noooooo noo noooo noo nooo, nooo nooo

previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho. According to this account
nooooooo nooo noo Nooooo noooo noo Nooo-No. Noooooooo no nooo noooooo

and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that the scaramouch in
noo nooo noo nooooooooooo noooooo, no nooooo nooo noo nooooooooo no

question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the
nooooooo noo nooooo n noooooooo nooooooooo nooo nooooo noooooooo no noo

Jeroboam. His story was this:
Nooooooo. Noo noooo noo nooo:




He had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna
No noo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo noooo noo noooo noooooo no Noooooooo

Shakers, where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secret
Noooooo, noooo no noo nooo n noooo noooooo; no noooo noooooo, nooooo

meetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of a
nooooooo nooooo noooooo noooo noooooooo nooo nooooo no noo noo no n

trap-door, announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which he
nooo-nooo, nooooooooo noo nooooo noooooo no noo noooooo nooo, noooo no

carried in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containing gunpowder,
noooooo no noo nooo-nooooo; noo, noooo, noooooo no nooooooooo noooooooo,

was supposed to be charged with laudanum. A strange, apostolic whim
noo nooooooo no no noooooo nooo nooooooo. N noooooo, noooooooo nooo

having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket, where, with
nooooo nooooo noo, no noo nooo Noooooooo noo Noooooooo, noooo, nooo

that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady, common-sense
nooo noooooo nooooooo no noooooooo, no noooooo n nooooo, nooooo-noooo

exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate for the
nooooooo, noo noooooo noooooo no n noooo-nooo noooooooo noo noo

Jeroboam's whaling voyage. They engaged him; but straightway upon
Nooooooo'n noooooo nooooo. Nooo noooooo noo; noo noooooooooo nooo

the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out in a
noo nooo'n noooooo noo no noooo no nooo, noo nooooooo noooo noo no n

freshet. He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded
noooooo. No noooooooo noooooo no noo noooooooo Noooooo, noo noooooooo

the captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby
noo noooooo no nooo noooooooo. No noooooooo noo noooooooo, noooooo

he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
no noo noooooo noooo no noo noooooooo no noo noooo no noo noo noo

vicar-general of all Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with which he
noooo-noooooo no noo Nooooooo. Noo noooooooooo noooooooooo nooo noooo no

declared these things;--the dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited
nooooooo noooo nooooo;--noo nooo, nooooo nooo no noo noooooooo, noooooo

imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united
noooooooooo, noo noo noo noooooooooooo noooooo no nooo nooooooo, nooooo

to invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant
no nooooo nooo Noooooo no noo noooo no noo nooooooo no noo nooooooo

crew, with an atmosphere of sacredness. Moreover, they were afraid of
nooo, nooo no nooooooooo no nooooooooo. Nooooooo, nooo nooo nooooo no

him. As such a man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship,
noo. No nooo n noo, noooooo, noo noo no nooo noooooooo noo no noo nooo,

especially as he refused to work except when he pleased, the incredulous
nooooooooo no no noooooo no nooo nooooo nooo no noooooo, noo noooooooooo

captain would fain have been rid of him; but apprised that that
noooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noo no noo; noo nooooooo nooo nooo

individual's intention was to land him in the first convenient port, the
nooooooooo'n noooooooo noo no nooo noo no noo noooo nooooooooo nooo, noo

archangel forthwith opened all his seals and vials--devoting the ship
noooooooo noooooooo nooooo noo noo noooo noo noooo--nooooooo noo nooo

and all hands to unconditional perdition, in case this intention was
noo noo noooo no noooooooooooo noooooooo, no nooo nooo noooooooo noo

carried out. So strongly did he work upon his disciples among the crew,
noooooo noo. No nooooooo noo no nooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo noo nooo,

that at last in a body they went to the captain and told him if Gabriel
nooo no nooo no n nooo nooo nooo no noo noooooo noo nooo noo no Noooooo

was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain. He was therefore
noo nooo nooo noo nooo, noo n noo no nooo noooo nooooo. No noo noooooooo

forced to relinquish his plan. Nor would they permit Gabriel to be any
nooooo no nooooooooo noo nooo. Noo noooo nooo nooooo Noooooo no no noo

way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass that
noo nooooooooo, noo no no nooo no noooo; no nooo no nooo no nooo nooo

Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship. The consequence of all
Noooooo noo noo nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo. Noo noooooooooo no noo

this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
nooo noo, nooo noo noooooooo noooo nooooo no noooooo noo noo noooooo noo

mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand
noooo; noo noooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo noo, no noooooo n nooooo nooo

than ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole
nooo nooo; noooooooo nooo noo nooooo, no no nooooo no, noo no noo nooo

command; nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure.
noooooo; noo nooooo no no nooooo noo noooooooo no noo nooo nooooooo.

The sailors, mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before
Noo noooooo, nooooo nooo nooooo, noooooo, noo nooo no nooo nooooo nooooo

him; in obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal
noo; no noooooooo no noo nooooooooooo, noooooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo

homage, as to a god. Such things may seem incredible; but, however
nooooo, no no n noo. Nooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooooo; noo, noooooo

wondrous, they are true. Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking
nooooooo, nooo noo nooo. Noo no noo noooooo no nooooooo nooo no nooooooo

in respect to the measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as
no noooooo no noo noooooooooo nooo-noooooooo no noo noooooo noooooo, no

his measureless power of deceiving and bedevilling so many others. But
noo noooooooooo noooo no noooooooo noo noooooooooo no nooo nooooo. Noo

it is time to return to the Pequod.
no no nooo no nooooo no noo Nooooo.




"I fear not thy epidemic, man," said Ahab from the bulwarks, to Captain
"N nooo noo noo nooooooo, noo," nooo Nooo nooo noo nooooooo, no Noooooo

Mayhew, who stood in the boat's stern; "come on board."
Nooooo, noo noooo no noo nooo'n noooo; "nooo no noooo."




But now Gabriel started to his feet.
Noo noo Noooooo noooooo no noo nooo.




"Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious! Beware of the horrible
"Noooo, noooo no noo nooooo, nooooo noo noooooo! Nooooo no noo nooooooo

plague!"
nooooo!"




"Gabriel! Gabriel!" cried Captain Mayhew; "thou must either--" But
"Noooooo! Noooooo!" noooo Noooooo Nooooo; "nooo nooo nooooo--" Noo

that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seethings
nooo noooooo n nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooo noo noooo, noo noo noooooooo

drowned all speech.
noooooo noo nooooo.




"Hast thou seen the White Whale?" demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted
"Nooo nooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo?" nooooooo Nooo, nooo noo nooo noooooo

back.
nooo.




"Think, think of thy whale-boat, stoven and sunk! Beware of the horrible
"Noooo, noooo no noo noooo-nooo, nooooo noo nooo! Nooooo no noo nooooooo

tail!"
nooo!"




"I tell thee again, Gabriel, that--" But again the boat tore ahead as if
"N nooo nooo noooo, Noooooo, nooo--" Noo noooo noo nooo nooo noooo no no

dragged by fiends. Nothing was said for some moments, while a succession
noooooo no nooooo. Noooooo noo nooo noo nooo noooooo, noooo n nooooooooo

of riotous waves rolled by, which by one of those occasional caprices
no noooooo noooo nooooo no, noooo no noo no noooo nooooooooo nooooooo

of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it. Meantime, the hoisted sperm
no noo nooo nooo nooooooo, noo noooooo no. Nooooooo, noo noooooo noooo

whale's head jogged about very violently, and Gabriel was seen eyeing
noooo'n nooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooooo, noo Noooooo noo nooo nooooo

it with rather more apprehensiveness than his archangel nature seemed to
no nooo nooooo nooo nooooooooooooooo nooo noo noooooooo nooooo nooooo no

warrant.
noooooo.




When this interlude was over, Captain Mayhew began a dark story
Nooo nooo noooooooo noo nooo, Noooooo Nooooo noooo n nooo noooo

concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without frequent interruptions from
nooooooooo Nooo Nooo; noo, noooooo, noooooo nooooooo noooooooooooo nooo

Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and the crazy sea that seemed
Noooooo, nooooooo noo nooo noo noooooooo, noo noo noooo noo nooo nooooo

leagued with him.
noooooo nooo noo.




It seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speaking
No nooooo nooo noo Nooooooo noo noo nooo nooo nooo, nooo nooo nooooooo

a whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the existence of Moby
n noooo-nooo, noo nooooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo no noo noooooooo no Nooo

Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this intelligence,
Nooo, noo noo noooo no noo nooo. Nooooooo noooooo no nooo nooooooooooo,

Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the White
Noooooo nooooooo nooooo noo noooooo noooooo noooooooo noo Noooo

Whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his gibbering insanity,
Noooo, no nooo noo noooooo nooooo no nooo; no noo noooooooo nooooooo,

pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the Shaker God
noooooooooo noo Noooo Noooo no no no nooo n noooo nooo noo Nooooo Noo

incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible. But when, some year or two
nooooooooo; noo Noooooo noooooooo noo Noooo. Noo nooo, nooo nooo no noo

afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey, the
nooooooooo, Nooo Nooo noo nooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo-noooo, Noooo, noo

chief mate, burned with ardour to encounter him; and the captain himself
noooo nooo, nooooo nooo nooooo no noooooooo noo; noo noo noooooo noooooo

being not unwilling to let him have the opportunity, despite all
noooo noo noooooooo no noo noo nooo noo noooooooooo, noooooo noo

the archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in
noo noooooooo'n noooooooooooo noo nooooooooooo, Noooo noooooooo no

persuading five men to man his boat. With them he pushed off; and, after
nooooooooo nooo noo no noo noo nooo. Nooo nooo no nooooo noo; noo, noooo

much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last
nooo noooo noooooo, noo nooo nooooooo, nooooooooooo nooooo, no no nooo

succeeded in getting one iron fast. Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to
noooooooo no noooooo noo nooo nooo. Nooooooo, Noooooo, noooooooo no

the main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and
noo nooo-noooo nooo-nooo, noo noooooo noo noo no noooooo nooooooo, noo

hurling forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants
noooooo noooo nooooooooo no nooooo nooo no noo nooooooooooo nooooooooo

of his divinity. Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his
no noo nooooooo. Noo, noooo Noooo, noo nooo, noo nooooooo no no noo

boat's bow, and with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting
nooo'n noo, noo nooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo no noo noooo noo noooooo

his wild exclamations upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance
noo nooo nooooooooooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooooooo no noo n nooo nooooo

for his poised lance, lo! a broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its
noo noo nooooo noooo, no! n noooo noooo nooooo nooo nooo noo noo; no noo

quick, fanning motion, temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies
noooo, noooooo nooooo, noooooooooo nooooo noo nooooo noo no noo nooooo

of the oarsmen. Next instant, the luckless mate, so full of furious
no noo noooooo. Nooo noooooo, noo nooooooo nooo, no nooo no noooooo

life, was smitten bodily into the air, and making a long arc in his
nooo, noo noooooo nooooo nooo noo noo, noo nooooo n nooo noo no noo

descent, fell into the sea at the distance of about fifty yards. Not a
noooooo, nooo nooo noo noo no noo nooooooo no noooo noooo noooo. Noo n

chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any oarsman's head; but the
nooo no noo nooo noo nooooo, noo n nooo no noo noooooo'n nooo; noo noo

mate for ever sank.
nooo noo nooo nooo.




It is well to parenthesize here, that of the fatal accidents in the
No no nooo no nooooooooooo nooo, nooo no noo noooo noooooooo no noo

Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any.
Noooo-Noooo Noooooo, nooo nooo no noooooo nooooo no nooooooo no noo.

Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated;
Noooooooo, noooooo no noooooo noo noo noo noo no nooo noooooooooo;

oftener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the thigh-board, in which the
noooooo noo nooo'n noo no noooooo noo, no noo noooo-noooo, no noooo noo

headsman stands, is torn from its place and accompanies the body. But
nooooooo nooooo, no nooo nooo noo noooo noo noooooooooo noo nooo. Noo

strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more instances than one,
noooooooo no noo no noo nooooooooooo, nooo no nooo noooooooo nooo noo,

when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of violence is
nooo noo nooo noo nooo noooooooo, noo n nooooo nooo no nooooooo no

discernible; the man being stark dead.
noooooooooo; noo noo noooo noooo nooo.




The whole calamity, with the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried
Noo noooo nooooooo, nooo noo noooooo nooo no Noooo, noo noooooo nooooooo

from the ship. Raising a piercing shriek--"The vial! the vial!" Gabriel
nooo noo nooo. Noooooo n nooooooo nooooo--"Noo nooo! noo nooo!" Noooooo

called off the terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the
nooooo noo noo nooooo-nooooooo nooo nooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo

whale. This terrible event clothed the archangel with added influence;
noooo. Nooo nooooooo noooo noooooo noo noooooooo nooo noooo noooooooo;

because his credulous disciples believed that he had specifically
noooooo noo noooooooo noooooooo nooooooo nooo no noo nooooooooooo

fore-announced it, instead of only making a general prophecy, which any
nooo-noooooooo no, noooooo no nooo nooooo n noooooo nooooooo, noooo noo

one might have done, and so have chanced to hit one of many marks in the
noo noooo nooo nooo, noo no nooo noooooo no noo noo no nooo noooo no noo

wide margin allowed. He became a nameless terror to the ship.
nooo nooooo noooooo. No nooooo n nooooooo nooooo no noo nooo.




Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to
Nooooo nooooo noooooooo noo noooooooo, Nooo noo nooo noooooooo no

him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he
noo, nooo noo nooooooo noooooo noooo noo noooooo noooooooo noooooo no

intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer. To which
nooooooo no nooo noo Noooo Noooo, no noooooooooo nooooo noooo. No noooo

Ahab answered--"Aye." Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started
Nooo nooooooo--"Noo." Noooooooooo, nooo, Noooooo nooo nooo noooooo

to his feet, glaring upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with
no noo nooo, noooooo nooo noo noo noo, noo nooooooooo noooooooo, nooo

downward pointed finger--"Think, think of the blasphemer--dead, and down
nooooooo noooooo nooooo--"Noooo, noooo no noo nooooooooo--nooo, noo nooo

there!--beware of the blasphemer's end!"
noooo!--nooooo no noo nooooooooo'n noo!"




Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew, "Captain, I have
Nooo nooooooo nooooo noooo; nooo nooo no Nooooo, "Noooooo, N nooo

just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for one of thy
nooo noooooooo no no no nooooo-noo; noooo no n nooooo noo noo no noo

officers, if I mistake not. Starbuck, look over the bag."
nooooooo, no N noooooo noo. Nooooooo, nooo nooo noo noo."




Every whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships,
Noooo noooo-nooo noooo noo n nooooo nooooo no noooooo noo noooooo noooo,

whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends
noooo nooooooo no noo noooooo no nooo nooo noo no noooooooo, noooooo

upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans. Thus,
nooo noo nooo nooooo no nooooooooooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo. Nooo,

most letters never reach their mark; and many are only received after
nooo noooooo noooo noooo noooo nooo; noo nooo noo nooo nooooooo noooo

attaining an age of two or three years or more.
noooooooo no noo no noo no noooo noooo no nooo.




Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand. It was sorely tumbled,
Nooo Nooooooo nooooooo nooo n nooooo no noo nooo. No noo nooooo noooooo,

damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in consequence
nooo, noo noooooo nooo n nooo, noooooo, noooo noooo, no noooooooooo

of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin. Of such a letter, Death
no noooo nooo no n nooo nooooo no noo noooo. No nooo n nooooo, Noooo

himself might well have been the post-boy.
noooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo-noo.




"Can'st not read it?" cried Ahab. "Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it's but
"Noo'no noo nooo no?" noooo Nooo. "Nooo no no, noo. Noo, noo, no'n noo

a dim scrawl;--what's this?" As he was studying it out, Starbuck took a
n noo nooooo;--nooo'n nooo?" No no noo nooooooo no noo, Nooooooo nooo n

long cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split the end, to
nooo noooooo-noooo nooo, noo nooo noo noooo nooooooo noooo noo noo, no

insert the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the boat, without
nooooo noo nooooo noooo, noo no nooo noo, nooo no no noo nooo, noooooo

its coming any closer to the ship.
noo nooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo.




Meantime, Ahab holding the letter, muttered, "Mr. Har--yes, Mr.
Nooooooo, Nooo noooooo noo nooooo, nooooooo, "No. Noo--noo, No.

Harry--(a woman's pinny hand,--the man's wife, I'll wager)--Aye--Mr.
Noooo--(n noooo'n noooo nooo,--noo noo'n nooo, N'no noooo)--Noo--No.

Harry Macey, Ship Jeroboam;--why it's Macey, and he's dead!"
Noooo Noooo, Nooo Nooooooo;--noo no'n Noooo, noo no'n nooo!"




"Poor fellow! poor fellow! and from his wife," sighed Mayhew; "but let
"Nooo nooooo! nooo nooooo! noo nooo noo nooo," nooooo Nooooo; "noo noo

me have it."
no nooo no."




"Nay, keep it thyself," cried Gabriel to Ahab; "thou art soon going that
"Noo, nooo no noooooo," noooo Noooooo no Nooo; "nooo noo nooo noooo nooo

way."
noo."




"Curses throttle thee!" yelled Ahab. "Captain Mayhew, stand by now to
"Nooooo nooooooo nooo!" nooooo Nooo. "Noooooo Nooooo, noooo no noo no

receive it"; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck's hands, he
noooooo no"; noo nooooo noo noooo noooooo nooo Nooooooo'n noooo, no

caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards the boat.
nooooo no no noo nooo no noo nooo, noo noooooo no nooo noooooo noo nooo.

But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing; the boat
Noo no no noo no, noo noooooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo; noo nooo

drifted a little towards the ship's stern; so that, as if by magic, the
noooooo n nooooo noooooo noo nooo'n noooo; no nooo, no no no noooo, noo

letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel's eager hand. He clutched it
nooooo nooooooo nooooo noooo nooo Noooooo'n noooo nooo. No nooooooo no

in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on it,
no no noooooo, nooooo noo nooo-noooo, noo nooooooo noo nooooo no no,

sent it thus loaded back into the ship. It fell at Ahab's feet. Then
nooo no nooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo. No nooo no Nooo'n nooo. Nooo

Gabriel shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their oars, and in
Noooooo nooooooo noo no noo nooooooo no nooo noo nooo noooo nooo, noo no

that manner the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod.
nooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooo noooooo nooo nooo nooo noo Nooooo.




As, after this interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket
No, noooo nooo noooooooo, noo nooooo noooooo noooo nooo nooo noo nooooo

of the whale, many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild
no noo noooo, nooo noooooo nooooo nooo nooooo no noooooooo no nooo nooo

affair.
nooooo.










CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooo-Nooo.







In the tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale, there
No noo nooooooooo nooooooo no noooooo-no noo noooooooo no n noooo, noooo

is much running backwards and forwards among the crew. Now hands are
no nooo noooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo noooo noo nooo. Noo noooo noo

wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there. There is no staying
nooooo nooo, noo nooo noooo noooo noo nooooo noooo. Noooo no no noooooo

in any one place; for at one and the same time everything has to be done
no noo noo noooo; noo no noo noo noo nooo nooo nooooooooo noo no no nooo

everywhere. It is much the same with him who endeavors the description
nooooooooo. No no nooo noo nooo nooo noo noo noooooooo noo noooooooooo

of the scene. We must now retrace our way a little. It was mentioned
no noo noooo. No nooo noo noooooo noo noo n nooooo. No noo noooooooo

that upon first breaking ground in the whale's back, the blubber-hook
nooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooooo no noo noooo'n nooo, noo noooooo-nooo

was inserted into the original hole there cut by the spades of the
noo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo noooo noo no noo nooooo no noo

mates. But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that same hook
noooo. Noo noo noo no nooooo noo noooooo n nooo no nooo nooo nooo

get fixed in that hole? It was inserted there by my particular friend
noo noooo no nooo nooo? No noo nooooooo noooo no no nooooooooo nooooo

Queequeg, whose duty it was, as harpooneer, to descend upon the
Nooooooo, noooo nooo no noo, no nooooooooo, no noooooo nooo noo

monster's back for the special purpose referred to. But in very many
noooooo'n nooo noo noo noooooo noooooo nooooooo no. Noo no nooo nooo

cases, circumstances require that the harpooneer shall remain on the
noooo, noooooooooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooooo noooo nooooo no noo

whale till the whole flensing or stripping operation is concluded. The
noooo nooo noo noooo nooooooo no noooooooo noooooooo no noooooooo. Noo

whale, be it observed, lies almost entirely submerged, excepting the
noooo, no no nooooooo, nooo nooooo nooooooo noooooooo, noooooooo noo

immediate parts operated upon. So down there, some ten feet below the
noooooooo noooo nooooooo nooo. No nooo noooo, nooo noo nooo noooo noo

level of the deck, the poor harpooneer flounders about, half on the
noooo no noo nooo, noo nooo nooooooooo noooooooo noooo, nooo no noo

whale and half in the water, as the vast mass revolves like a tread-mill
noooo noo nooo no noo noooo, no noo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo n noooo-nooo

beneath him. On the occasion in question, Queequeg figured in the
noooooo noo. No noo nooooooo no nooooooo, Nooooooo noooooo no noo

Highland costume--a shirt and socks--in which to my eyes, at least,
Nooooooo noooooo--n noooo noo noooo--no noooo no no nooo, no noooo,

he appeared to uncommon advantage; and no one had a better chance to
no nooooooo no nooooooo noooooooo; noo no noo noo n nooooo nooooo no

observe him, as will presently be seen.
noooooo noo, no nooo noooooooo no nooo.




Being the savage's bowsman, that is, the person who pulled the bow-oar
Noooo noo nooooo'n noooooo, nooo no, noo nooooo noo nooooo noo noo-noo

in his boat (the second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty to
no noo nooo (noo nooooo noo nooo noooooo), no noo no nooooooo nooo no

attend upon him while taking that hard-scrabble scramble upon the dead
nooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo nooo-nooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo

whale's back. You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by
noooo'n nooo. Noo nooo nooo Noooooo noooo-nooo noooooo n noooooo-noo no

a long cord. Just so, from the ship's steep side, did I hold Queequeg
n nooo nooo. Nooo no, nooo noo nooo'n noooo nooo, noo N nooo Nooooooo

down there in the sea, by what is technically called in the fishery
nooo noooo no noo noo, no nooo no noooooooooo nooooo no noo noooooo

a monkey-rope, attached to a strong strip of canvas belted round his
n nooooo-nooo, nooooooo no n nooooo noooo no nooooo nooooo noooo noo

waist.
noooo.




It was a humorously perilous business for both of us. For, before we
No noo n nooooooooo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooo no no. Noo, nooooo no

proceed further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at
noooooo noooooo, no nooo no nooo nooo noo nooooo-nooo noo nooo no

both ends; fast to Queequeg's broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrow
nooo nooo; nooo no Nooooooo'n noooo nooooo nooo, noo nooo no no nooooo

leather one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time, were
noooooo noo. No nooo noo nooooo no noo noooo, no noo, noo noo nooo, nooo

wedded; and should poor Queequeg sink to rise no more, then both usage
nooooo; noo nooooo nooo Nooooooo nooo no nooo no nooo, nooo nooo noooo

and honour demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it should drag
noo nooooo nooooooo, nooo noooooo no noooooo noo nooo, no nooooo nooo

me down in his wake. So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature united us.
no nooo no noo nooo. No, nooo, no noooooooo Noooooo nooooooo nooooo no.

Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother; nor could I any way get
Nooooooo noo no noo noooooooooo nooo noooooo; noo noooo N noo noo noo

rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bond entailed.
noo no noo noooooooo noooooooooo noooo noo nooooo nooo nooooooo.




So strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation then, that
No nooooooo noo nooooooooooooo noo N nooooooo no no noooooooo nooo, nooo

while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to perceive
noooo noooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo, N nooooo nooooooooo no nooooooo

that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock company of
nooo no noo noooooooooooo noo noo nooooo no n noooo noooo noooooo no

two; that my free will had received a mortal wound; and that another's
noo; nooo no nooo nooo noo nooooooo n nooooo noooo; noo nooo noooooo'n

mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmerited disaster
noooooo no nooooooooo noooo nooooo nooooooo no nooo noooooooo nooooooo

and death. Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of interregnum in
noo noooo. Noooooooo, N noo nooo nooo noo n nooo no noooooooooo no

Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have so gross an
Nooooooooo; noo noo nooo-nooooo nooooo noooo noooo nooo no noooo no

injustice. And yet still further pondering--while I jerked him now
noooooooo. Noo noo noooo noooooo noooooooo--noooo N nooooo noo noo

and then from between the whale and ship, which would threaten to jam
noo nooo nooo noooooo noo noooo noo nooo, noooo noooo nooooooo no noo

him--still further pondering, I say, I saw that this situation of mine
noo--noooo noooooo noooooooo, N noo, N noo nooo nooo noooooooo no nooo

was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in most
noo noo noooooo noooooooo no noooo nooooo nooo nooooooo; nooo, no nooo

cases, he, one way or other, has this Siamese connexion with a plurality
noooo, no, noo noo no noooo, noo nooo Noooooo noooooooo nooo n noooooooo

of other mortals. If your banker breaks, you snap; if your apothecary by
no noooo noooooo. No nooo nooooo nooooo, noo nooo; no nooo nooooooooo no

mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die. True, you may say
noooooo noooo noo nooooo no nooo noooo, noo noo. Nooo, noo noo noo

that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape these and the
nooo, no noooooooo noooooo, noo noo nooooooo nooooo noooo noo noo

multitudinous other evil chances of life. But handle Queequeg's
noooooooooooo noooo nooo noooooo no nooo. Noo nooooo Nooooooo'n

monkey-rope heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that I came
nooooo-nooo noooooooo no N noooo, noooooooo no nooooo no no, nooo N nooo

very near sliding overboard. Nor could I possibly forget that, do what I
nooo nooo noooooo noooooooo. Noo noooo N nooooooo nooooo nooo, no nooo N

would, I only had the management of one end of it.*
noooo, N nooo noo noo nooooooooo no noo noo no no.*







*The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod
*Noo nooooo-nooo no noooo no noo noooooo; noo no noo nooo no noo Nooooo

that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together. This improvement
nooo noo nooooo noo noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo. Nooo noooooooooo

upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man than Stubb,
nooo noo nooooooo noooo noo nooooooooo no no nooo n noo nooo Noooo,

in order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongest possible
no noooo no nooooo noo nooooooooo nooooooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo

guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of his monkey-rope holder.
noooooooo noo noo nooooooooooo noo noooooooo no noo nooooo-nooo nooooo.







I have hinted that I would often jerk poor Queequeg from between the
N nooo nooooo nooo N noooo noooo nooo nooo Nooooooo nooo noooooo noo

whale and the ship--where he would occasionally fall, from the incessant
noooo noo noo nooo--noooo no noooo nooooooooooo nooo, nooo noo noooooooo

rolling and swaying of both. But this was not the only jamming jeopardy
noooooo noo noooooo no nooo. Noo nooo noo noo noo nooo noooooo nooooooo

he was exposed to. Unappalled by the massacre made upon them during the
no noo noooooo no. Nooooooooo no noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo noo

night, the sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by the before pent
noooo, noo nooooo noo noooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooo no noo nooooo nooo

blood which began to flow from the carcass--the rabid creatures swarmed
noooo noooo noooo no nooo nooo noo noooooo--noo noooo noooooooo noooooo

round it like bees in a beehive.
noooo no nooo nooo no n noooooo.




And right in among those sharks was Queequeg; who often pushed them
Noo noooo no noooo noooo nooooo noo Nooooooo; noo noooo nooooo nooo

aside with his floundering feet. A thing altogether incredible were
noooo nooo noo noooooooooo nooo. N noooo nooooooooo nooooooooo nooo

it not that attracted by such prey as a dead whale, the otherwise
no noo nooo noooooooo no nooo nooo no n nooo noooo, noo noooooooo

miscellaneously carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man.
noooooooooooooo noooooooooo noooo nooo nooooo noooo n noo.




Nevertheless, it may well be believed that since they have such a
Nooooooooooo, no noo nooo no nooooooo nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo n

ravenous finger in the pie, it is deemed but wise to look sharp to them.
nooooooo nooooo no noo noo, no no nooooo noo nooo no nooo noooo no nooo.

Accordingly, besides the monkey-rope, with which I now and then jerked
Noooooooooo, noooooo noo nooooo-nooo, nooo noooo N noo noo nooo nooooo

the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what seemed
noo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooo n nooooooo no noo noo no nooo nooooo

a peculiarly ferocious shark--he was provided with still another
n nooooooooo noooooooo noooo--no noo nooooooo nooo noooo noooooo

protection. Suspended over the side in one of the stages, Tashtego
nooooooooo. Noooooooo nooo noo nooo no noo no noo nooooo, Nooooooo

and Daggoo continually flourished over his head a couple of keen
noo Nooooo noooooooooo nooooooooo nooo noo nooo n nooooo no nooo

whale-spades, wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they could
noooo-nooooo, noooooooo nooo noooooooooo no nooo nooooo no nooo noooo

reach. This procedure of theirs, to be sure, was very disinterested and
noooo. Nooo noooooooo no nooooo, no no nooo, noo nooo noooooooooooo noo

benevolent of them. They meant Queequeg's best happiness, I admit; but
nooooooooo no nooo. Nooo noooo Nooooooo'n nooo noooooooo, N noooo; noo

in their hasty zeal to befriend him, and from the circumstance that both
no noooo noooo nooo no nooooooo noo, noo nooo noo nooooooooooo nooo nooo

he and the sharks were at times half hidden by the blood-muddled water,
no noo noo nooooo nooo no noooo nooo nooooo no noo noooo-noooooo noooo,

those indiscreet spades of theirs would come nearer amputating a leg
noooo nooooooooo nooooo no nooooo noooo nooo nooooo nooooooooo n noo

than a tail. But poor Queequeg, I suppose, straining and gasping there
nooo n nooo. Noo nooo Nooooooo, N noooooo, noooooooo noo noooooo noooo

with that great iron hook--poor Queequeg, I suppose, only prayed to his
nooo nooo noooo nooo nooo--nooo Nooooooo, N noooooo, nooo nooooo no noo

Yojo, and gave up his life into the hands of his gods.
Nooo, noo nooo no noo nooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooo.




Well, well, my dear comrade and twin-brother, thought I, as I drew in
Nooo, nooo, no nooo noooooo noo nooo-noooooo, noooooo N, no N nooo no

and then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea--what matters
noo nooo noooooo noo noo nooo no noooo noooo no noo noo--nooo noooooo

it, after all? Are you not the precious image of each and all of us men
no, noooo noo? Noo noo noo noo nooooooo noooo no nooo noo noo no no noo

in this whaling world? That unsounded ocean you gasp in, is Life; those
no nooo noooooo noooo? Nooo noooooooo noooo noo nooo no, no Nooo; noooo

sharks, your foes; those spades, your friends; and what between sharks
nooooo, nooo nooo; noooo nooooo, nooo noooooo; noo nooo noooooo nooooo

and spades you are in a sad pickle and peril, poor lad.
noo nooooo noo noo no n noo nooooo noo noooo, nooo noo.




But courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now, as
Noo noooooo! noooo no nooo noooo no noooo noo noo, Nooooooo. Noo noo, no

with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs
nooo nooo nooo noo noooo-nooo nooo noo noooooooo nooooo no nooo nooooo

up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over
no noo nooooo noo nooooo noo nooooooo noo noooooooooooo noooooooo nooo

the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent, consolatory
noo nooo; noo noooooo nooooooo, noo nooo n nooooooooo, noooooooooo

glance hands him--what? Some hot Cognac? No! hands him, ye gods! hands
nooooo noooo noo--nooo? Nooo noo Nooooo? No! noooo noo, no nooo! noooo

him a cup of tepid ginger and water!
noo n noo no noooo nooooo noo noooo!




"Ginger? Do I smell ginger?" suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near.
"Nooooo? No N noooo nooooo?" nooooooooooo noooo Noooo, nooooo nooo.

"Yes, this must be ginger," peering into the as yet untasted cup. Then
"Noo, nooo nooo no nooooo," noooooo nooo noo no noo nooooooo noo. Nooo

standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the
nooooooo no no noooooooooo noo n noooo, no nooooo nooooo noooooo noo

astonished steward slowly saying, "Ginger? ginger? and will you have
nooooooooo noooooo nooooo nooooo, "Nooooo? nooooo? noo nooo noo nooo

the goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of ginger?
noo nooooooo no nooo no, No. Noooo-Noo, noooo nooo noo nooooo no nooooo?

Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to kindle a fire
Nooooo! no nooooo noo nooo no nooo noo noo, Noooo-noo, no nooooo n nooo

in this shivering cannibal? Ginger!--what the devil is ginger?
no nooo noooooooo nooooooo? Nooooo!--nooo noo noooo no nooooo?

Sea-coal? firewood?--lucifer matches?--tinder?--gunpowder?--what the
Noo-nooo? nooooooo?--noooooo noooooo?--nooooo?--noooooooo?--nooo noo

devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poor Queequeg
noooo no nooooo, N noo, nooo noo noooo nooo noo no noo nooo Nooooooo

here."
nooo."




"There is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about this
"Noooo no nooo nooooooo Nooooooooo Noooooo nooooooo noooo nooo

business," he suddenly added, now approaching Starbuck, who had just
nooooooo," no nooooooo noooo, noo noooooooooo Nooooooo, noo noo nooo

come from forward. "Will you look at that kannakin, sir; smell of it,
nooo nooo noooooo. "Nooo noo nooo no nooo nooooooo, noo; noooo no no,

if you please." Then watching the mate's countenance, he added, "The
no noo nooooo." Nooo nooooooo noo nooo'n noooooooooo, no noooo, "Noo

steward, Mr. Starbuck, had the face to offer that calomel and jalap
noooooo, No. Nooooooo, noo noo nooo no noooo nooo noooooo noo noooo

to Queequeg, there, this instant off the whale. Is the steward an
no Nooooooo, noooo, nooo noooooo noo noo noooo. No noo noooooo no

apothecary, sir? and may I ask whether this is the sort of bitters by
nooooooooo, noo? noo noo N noo noooooo nooo no noo nooo no noooooo no

which he blows back the life into a half-drowned man?"
noooo no noooo nooo noo nooo nooo n nooo-noooooo noo?"




"I trust not," said Starbuck, "it is poor stuff enough."
"N noooo noo," nooo Nooooooo, "no no nooo noooo nooooo."




"Aye, aye, steward," cried Stubb, "we'll teach you to drug a
"Noo, noo, noooooo," noooo Noooo, "no'no noooo noo no nooo n

harpooneer; none of your apothecary's medicine here; you want to poison
nooooooooo; nooo no nooo nooooooooo'n nooooooo nooo; noo nooo no nooooo

us, do ye? You have got out insurances on our lives and want to murder
no, no no? Noo nooo noo noo nooooooooo no noo noooo noo nooo no nooooo

us all, and pocket the proceeds, do ye?"
no noo, noo nooooo noo nooooooo, no no?"




"It was not me," cried Dough-Boy, "it was Aunt Charity that brought the
"No noo noo no," noooo Noooo-Noo, "no noo Nooo Noooooo nooo noooooo noo

ginger on board; and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits, but
nooooo no noooo; noo nooo no noooo nooo noo noooooooooo noo noooooo, noo

only this ginger-jub--so she called it."
nooo nooo nooooo-noo--no noo nooooo no."




"Ginger-jub! you gingerly rascal! take that! and run along with ye
"Nooooo-noo! noo nooooooo nooooo! nooo nooo! noo noo noooo nooo no

to the lockers, and get something better. I hope I do no wrong, Mr.
no noo noooooo, noo noo noooooooo nooooo. N nooo N no no noooo, No.

Starbuck. It is the captain's orders--grog for the harpooneer on a
Nooooooo. No no noo noooooo'n nooooo--nooo noo noo nooooooooo no n

whale."
noooo."




"Enough," replied Starbuck, "only don't hit him again, but--"
"Nooooo," noooooo Nooooooo, "nooo noo'n noo noo noooo, noo--"




"Oh, I never hurt when I hit, except when I hit a whale or something of
"No, N noooo nooo nooo N noo, nooooo nooo N noo n noooo no noooooooo no

that sort; and this fellow's a weazel. What were you about saying, sir?"
nooo nooo; noo nooo nooooo'n n nooooo. Nooo nooo noo noooo nooooo, noo?"




"Only this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyself."
"Nooo nooo: no nooo nooo noo, noo noo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo."




When Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and a sort
Nooo Noooo nooooooooo, no nooo nooo n nooo noooo no noo nooo, noo n nooo

of tea-caddy in the other. The first contained strong spirits, and was
no noo-noooo no noo noooo. Noo noooo noooooooo nooooo noooooo, noo noo

handed to Queequeg; the second was Aunt Charity's gift, and that was
nooooo no Nooooooo; noo nooooo noo Nooo Noooooo'n nooo, noo nooo noo

freely given to the waves.
nooooo noooo no noo noooo.










CHAPTER 73. Stubb and Flask Kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk
NOOOOOO no. Noooo noo Noooo Nooo n Noooo Noooo; noo Nooo Nooo n Nooo

Over Him.
Nooo Noo.







It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale's
No nooo no noooo no nooo nooo noo nooo nooo no nooo n Noooo Noooo'n

prodigious head hanging to the Pequod's side. But we must let it
nooooooooo nooo noooooo no noo Nooooo'n nooo. Noo no nooo noo no

continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it.
nooooooo noooooo noooo n noooo nooo no noo noo n nooooo no nooooo no no.

For the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the
Noo noo noooooo noooo noooooo noooo, noo noo nooo no noo no noo noo noo

head, is to pray heaven the tackles may hold.
nooo, no no nooo nooooo noo noooooo noo nooo.




Now, during the past night and forenoon, the Pequod had gradually
Noo, nooooo noo nooo noooo noo nooooooo, noo Nooooo noo noooooooo

drifted into a sea, which, by its occasional patches of yellow brit,
noooooo nooo n noo, noooo, no noo nooooooooo noooooo no nooooo nooo,

gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species of the
nooo noooooo nooooo no noo nooooooo no Noooo Nooooo, n noooooo no noo

Leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking
Noooooooo nooo noo noo nooooooo no no no nooo nooooooooo nooo noooooo

anywhere near. And though all hands commonly disdained the capture of
nooooooo nooo. Noo nooooo noo noooo nooooooo noooooooo noo noooooo no

those inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to
noooo nooooooo noooooooo; noo nooooo noo Nooooo noo noo nooooooooooo no

cruise for them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near
nooooo noo nooo no noo, noo nooooo noo noo nooooo noooooo no nooo nooo

the Crozetts without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale
noo Nooooooo noooooo nooooooo n nooo; noo noo nooo n Noooo Noooo

had been brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the
noo nooo noooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo, no noo nooooooo no noo, noo

announcement was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day, if
nooooooooooo noo nooo nooo n Noooo Noooo nooooo no nooooooo nooo noo, no

opportunity offered.
noooooooooo noooooo.




Nor was this long wanting. Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two
Noo noo nooo nooo noooooo. Nooo nooooo nooo nooo no noooooo; noo noo

boats, Stubb's and Flask's, were detached in pursuit. Pulling further
noooo, Noooo'n noo Noooo'n, nooo nooooooo no noooooo. Noooooo noooooo

and further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at
noo noooooo nooo, nooo no nooo nooooo nooooo noooooooo no noo noo no

the mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of
noo nooo-nooo. Noo nooooooo no noo nooooooo, nooo noo n noooo nooo no

tumultuous white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one or
nooooooooo noooo noooo, noo nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo noo no

both the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were in
nooo noo noooo nooo no nooo. No nooooooo nooooo noo noo noooo nooo no

plain sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the
noooo noooo, no noo noo no noooo noooooo noooo noooooo noo nooo no noo

towing whale. So close did the monster come to the hull, that at
nooooo noooo. No noooo noo noo noooooo nooo no noo nooo, nooo no

first it seemed as if he meant it malice; but suddenly going down in a
noooo no nooooo no no no noooo no nooooo; noo nooooooo noooo nooo no n

maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared from
noooooooo, nooooo noooo nooo no noo nooooo, no nooooo noooooooooo nooo

view, as if diving under the keel. "Cut, cut!" was the cry from the
nooo, no no nooooo noooo noo nooo. "Noo, noo!" noo noo noo nooo noo

ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being
nooo no noo noooo, noooo, noo noo noooooo, nooooo no noo noooo no noooo

brought with a deadly dash against the vessel's side. But having plenty
noooooo nooo n nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooo'n nooo. Noo nooooo nooooo

of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very rapidly, they
no nooo noo no noo nooo, noo noo noooo noo nooooooo nooo noooooo, nooo

paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with all their
nooo noo noooooooo no nooo, noo no noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooo

might so as to get ahead of the ship. For a few minutes the struggle was
noooo no no no noo noooo no noo nooo. Noo n noo noooooo noo nooooooo noo

intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightened line
noooooooo nooooooo; noo noooo nooo noooo noooooo noo noo noooooooo nooo

in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the contending
no noo noooooooo, noo noooo noooo noooo nooo no noooooo, noo nooooooooo

strain threatened to take them under. But it was only a few feet advance
nooooo nooooooooo no nooo nooo noooo. Noo no noo nooo n noo nooo noooooo

they sought to gain. And they stuck to it till they did gain it; when
nooo nooooo no nooo. Noo nooo noooo no no nooo nooo noo nooo no; nooo

instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning along the
noooooooo, n noooo nooooo noo nooo noooooo nooo noooooooo noooo noo

keel, as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship, suddenly rose
nooo, no noo nooooooo nooo, nooooooo noooooo noo nooo, nooooooo nooo

to view under her bows, snapping and quivering; and so flinging off its
no nooo noooo noo nooo, nooooooo noo noooooooo; noo no nooooooo noo noo

drippings, that the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water,
noooooooo, nooo noo noooo nooo nooo nooo no nooooo noooo no noo noooo,

while the whale beyond also rose to sight, and once more the boats were
noooo noo noooo nooooo nooo nooo no noooo, noo nooo nooo noo noooo nooo

free to fly. But the fagged whale abated his speed, and blindly altering
nooo no noo. Noo noo nooooo noooo nooooo noo noooo, noo noooooo nooooooo

his course, went round the stern of the ship towing the two boats after
noo nooooo, nooo noooo noo noooo no noo nooo nooooo noo noo noooo noooo

him, so that they performed a complete circuit.
noo, no nooo nooo noooooooo n nooooooo noooooo.




Meantime, they hauled more and more upon their lines, till close
Nooooooo, nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo noooo, nooo noooo

flanking him on both sides, Stubb answered Flask with lance for
nooooooo noo no nooo noooo, Noooo nooooooo Noooo nooo noooo noo

lance; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went, while the
noooo; noo nooo noooo noo noooo noo Nooooo noo nooooo nooo, noooo noo

multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale's body,
nooooooooo no nooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo noooo noo Noooo Noooo'n nooo,

rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking at every
nooooo no noo noooo noooo nooo noo noooooo, noooooooo nooooooo no noooo

new gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that
noo nooo, no noo noooo Nooooooooo noo no noo noo nooooooo noooooooo nooo

poured from the smitten rock.
nooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo.




At last his spout grew thick, and with a frightful roll and vomit, he
No nooo noo noooo nooo noooo, noo nooo n noooooooo nooo noo noooo, no

turned upon his back a corpse.
nooooo nooo noo nooo n nooooo.




While the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes,
Noooo noo noo nooooooo nooo noooooo no nooooo nooo noooo no noo nooooo,

and in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing, some
noo no noooo nooo noooooo noo nooo no noooooooo noo nooooo, nooo

conversation ensued between them.
nooooooooooo nooooo noooooo nooo.




"I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard," said
"N nooooo nooo noo noo noo noooo nooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo," nooo

Stubb, not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so
Noooo, noo noooooo nooo noooooo no noo noooooo no nooooo no no nooo no

ignoble a leviathan.
noooooo n noooooooo.




"Wants with it?" said Flask, coiling some spare line in the boat's bow,
"Noooo nooo no?" nooo Noooo, noooooo nooo noooo nooo no noo nooo'n noo,

"did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm Whale's
"noo noo noooo nooo nooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo noo n Noooo Noooo'n

head hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right Whale's
nooo noooooo no noo noooooooo nooo, noo no noo nooo nooo n Noooo Noooo'n

on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never
no noo nooooooo; noo noo noooo nooo, Noooo, nooo nooo nooo noo noooo

afterwards capsize?"
nooooooooo noooooo?"




"Why not?
"Noo noo?




"I don't know, but I heard that gamboge ghost of a Fedallah saying so,
"N noo'n nooo, noo N noooo nooo noooooo noooo no n Nooooooo nooooo no,

and he seems to know all about ships' charms. But I sometimes think
noo no noooo no nooo noo noooo noooo' nooooo. Noo N noooooooo noooo

he'll charm the ship to no good at last. I don't half like that chap,
no'no noooo noo nooo no no nooo no nooo. N noo'n nooo nooo nooo nooo,

Stubb. Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carved into
Noooo. Noo noo nooo nooooo noo nooo nooo no noo no n nooo no nooooo nooo

a snake's head, Stubb?"
n noooo'n nooo, Noooo?"




"Sink him! I never look at him at all; but if ever I get a chance of a
"Nooo noo! N noooo nooo no noo no noo; noo no nooo N noo n nooooo no n

dark night, and he standing hard by the bulwarks, and no one by; look
nooo noooo, noo no nooooooo nooo no noo nooooooo, noo no noo no; nooo

down there, Flask"--pointing into the sea with a peculiar motion of
nooo noooo, Noooo"--nooooooo nooo noo noo nooo n nooooooo nooooo no

both hands--"Aye, will I! Flask, I take that Fedallah to be the devil in
nooo noooo--"Noo, nooo N! Noooo, N nooo nooo Nooooooo no no noo noooo no

disguise. Do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been
nooooooo. No noo noooooo nooo nooo noo nooo noooo noooo noo nooooo nooo

stowed away on board ship? He's the devil, I say. The reason why you
nooooo nooo no noooo nooo? No'n noo noooo, N noo. Noo nooooo noo noo

don't see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries
noo'n noo noo nooo, no noooooo no noooo no no noo no noooo; no noooooo

it coiled away in his pocket, I guess. Blast him! now that I think of
no nooooo nooo no noo nooooo, N noooo. Noooo noo! noo nooo N noooo no

it, he's always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots."
no, no'n nooooo noooooo noooo no noooo nooo noo nooo no noo noooo."




"He sleeps in his boots, don't he? He hasn't got any hammock; but I've
"No nooooo no noo noooo, noo'n no? No nooo'n noo noo noooooo; noo N'no

seen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging."
nooo noo noo no nooooo no n nooo no noooooo."




"No doubt, and it's because of his cursed tail; he coils it down, do ye
"No noooo, noo no'n noooooo no noo nooooo nooo; no noooo no nooo, no no

see, in the eye of the rigging."
noo, no noo noo no noo noooooo."




"What's the old man have so much to do with him for?"
"Nooo'n noo noo noo nooo no nooo no no nooo noo noo?"




"Striking up a swap or a bargain, I suppose."
"Nooooooo no n nooo no n noooooo, N noooooo."




"Bargain?--about what?"
"Noooooo?--noooo nooo?"




"Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and
"Noo, no no noo, noo noo noo no nooo nooo noooo nooo Noooo Noooo, noo

the devil there is trying to come round him, and get him to swap away
noo noooo noooo no nooooo no nooo noooo noo, noo noo noo no nooo nooo

his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that sort, and then he'll
noo nooooo noooo, no noo nooo, no noooooooo no nooo nooo, noo nooo no'no

surrender Moby Dick."
noooooooo Nooo Nooo."




"Pooh! Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?"
"Nooo! Noooo, noo noo nooooooooo; noo noo Nooooooo no nooo?"




"I don't know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wicked
"N noo'n nooo, Noooo, noo noo noooo no n noooooo nooo, noo n nooooo

one, I tell ye. Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the
noo, N nooo no. Noo, nooo noo no noo no nooo n nooooooooo nooo noo

old flag-ship once, switching his tail about devilish easy and
noo nooo-nooo nooo, noooooooo noo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo noo

gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, he
noooooooooooo, noo noooooooo no noo noo nooooooo noo no nooo. Nooo, no

was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted. The devil, switching
noo no nooo, noo noooo noo noooo nooo no nooooo. Noo noooo, noooooooo

his hoofs, up and says, 'I want John.' 'What for?' says the old
noo noooo, no noo nooo, 'N nooo Nooo.' 'Nooo noo?' nooo noo noo

governor. 'What business is that of yours,' says the devil, getting
nooooooo. 'Nooo nooooooo no nooo no noooo,' nooo noo noooo, noooooo

mad,--'I want to use him.' 'Take him,' says the governor--and by the
noo,--'N nooo no noo noo.' 'Nooo noo,' nooo noo nooooooo--noo no noo

Lord, Flask, if the devil didn't give John the Asiatic cholera before
Nooo, Noooo, no noo noooo nooo'n nooo Nooo noo Noooooo noooooo nooooo

he got through with him, I'll eat this whale in one mouthful. But look
no noo noooooo nooo noo, N'no noo nooo noooo no noo nooooooo. Noo nooo

sharp--ain't you all ready there? Well, then, pull ahead, and let's get
noooo--noo'n noo noo noooo noooo? Nooo, nooo, nooo noooo, noo noo'n noo

the whale alongside."
noo noooo noooooooo."




"I think I remember some such story as you were telling," said Flask,
"N noooo N nooooooo nooo nooo noooo no noo nooo noooooo," nooo Noooo,

when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden
nooo no nooo noo noo noooo nooo nooooo noooooooo nooo noooo nooooo

towards the ship, "but I can't remember where."
noooooo noo nooo, "noo N noo'n nooooooo noooo."




"Three Spaniards? Adventures of those three bloody-minded soladoes? Did
"Noooo Noooooooo? Nooooooooo no noooo noooo nooooo-nooooo nooooooo? Noo

ye read it there, Flask? I guess ye did?"
no nooo no noooo, Noooo? N noooo no noo?"




"No: never saw such a book; heard of it, though. But now, tell me,
"No: noooo noo nooo n nooo; noooo no no, nooooo. Noo noo, nooo no,

Stubb, do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was
Noooo, no noo noooooo nooo nooo noooo noo noo nooooooo no nooo noo, noo

the same you say is now on board the Pequod?"
noo nooo noo noo no noo no noooo noo Nooooo?"




"Am I the same man that helped kill this whale? Doesn't the devil live
"No N noo nooo noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo? Noooo'n noo noooo nooo

for ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead? Did you ever see
noo nooo; noo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo noo nooo? Noo noo nooo noo

any parson a wearing mourning for the devil? And if the devil has a
noo nooooo n noooooo nooooooo noo noo noooo? Noo no noo noooo noo n

latch-key to get into the admiral's cabin, don't you suppose he can
noooo-noo no noo nooo noo noooooo'n noooo, noo'n noo noooooo no noo

crawl into a porthole? Tell me that, Mr. Flask?"
noooo nooo n nooooooo? Nooo no nooo, No. Noooo?"




"How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?"
"Noo noo no noo noooooo Nooooooo no, Noooo?"




"Do you see that mainmast there?" pointing to the ship; "well, that's
"No noo noo nooo nooooooo noooo?" nooooooo no noo nooo; "nooo, nooo'n

the figure one; now take all the hoops in the Pequod's hold, and string
noo nooooo noo; noo nooo noo noo noooo no noo Nooooo'n nooo, noo nooooo

along in a row with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that
noooo no n noo nooo nooo nooo, noo nooooo, no noo noo; nooo, nooo

wouldn't begin to be Fedallah's age. Nor all the coopers in creation
nooooo'n noooo no no Nooooooo'n noo. Noo noo noo noooooo no nooooooo

couldn't show hoops enough to make oughts enough."
nooooo'n nooo noooo nooooo no nooo nooooo nooooo."




"But see here, Stubb, I thought you a little boasted just now, that you
"Noo noo nooo, Noooo, N noooooo noo n nooooo noooooo nooo noo, nooo noo

meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good chance. Now, if
noooo no nooo Nooooooo n noo-nooo, no noo noo n nooo nooooo. Noo, no

he's so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he is going
no'n no noo no noo noooo noooo no noooo nooo no, noo no no no noooo

to live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard--tell me
no nooo noo nooo, nooo nooo nooo no no no noooo noo noooooooo--nooo no

that?
nooo?




"Give him a good ducking, anyhow."
"Nooo noo n nooo noooooo, nooooo."




"But he'd crawl back."
"Noo no'n noooo nooo."




"Duck him again; and keep ducking him."
"Nooo noo noooo; noo nooo noooooo noo."




"Suppose he should take it into his head to duck you, though--yes, and
"Noooooo no nooooo nooo no nooo noo nooo no nooo noo, nooooo--noo, noo

drown you--what then?"
noooo noo--nooo nooo?"




"I should like to see him try it; I'd give him such a pair of black eyes
"N nooooo nooo no noo noo noo no; N'n nooo noo nooo n nooo no noooo nooo

that he wouldn't dare to show his face in the admiral's cabin again for
nooo no nooooo'n nooo no nooo noo nooo no noo noooooo'n noooo noooo noo

a long while, let alone down in the orlop there, where he lives, and
n nooo noooo, noo noooo nooo no noo noooo noooo, noooo no noooo, noo

hereabouts on the upper decks where he sneaks so much. Damn the devil,
nooooooooo no noo noooo noooo noooo no nooooo no nooo. Nooo noo noooo,

Flask; so you suppose I'm afraid of the devil? Who's afraid of
Noooo; no noo noooooo N'n nooooo no noo noooo? Noo'n nooooo no

him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him and put him in
noo, nooooo noo noo nooooooo noo nooooo'n noooo noo noo noo noo no

double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about kidnapping
nooooo-noooooo, no no nooooooo, noo nooo noo no noooo nooooooooo

people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the devil
nooooo; noo, noo nooooo n nooo nooo noo, nooo noo noo nooooo noo noooo

kidnapped, he'd roast for him? There's a governor!"
noooooooo, no'n noooo noo noo? Noooo'n n nooooooo!"




"Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?"
"No noo noooooo Nooooooo noooo no nooooo Noooooo Nooo?"




"Do I suppose it? You'll know it before long, Flask. But I am going now
"No N noooooo no? Noo'no nooo no nooooo nooo, Noooo. Noo N no noooo noo

to keep a sharp look-out on him; and if I see anything very suspicious
no nooo n noooo nooo-noo no noo; noo no N noo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo

going on, I'll just take him by the nape of his neck, and say--Look
noooo no, N'no nooo nooo noo no noo nooo no noo nooo, noo noo--Nooo

here, Beelzebub, you don't do it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord
nooo, Noooooooo, noo noo'n no no; noo no no noooo noo nooo, no noo Nooo

I'll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan,
N'no nooo n nooo nooo noo nooooo noo noo nooo, nooo no no noo noooooo,

and give him such a wrenching and heaving, that his tail will come short
noo nooo noo nooo n noooooooo noo noooooo, nooo noo nooo nooo nooo noooo

off at the stump--do you see; and then, I rather guess when he finds
noo no noo noooo--no noo noo; noo nooo, N nooooo noooo nooo no noooo

himself docked in that queer fashion, he'll sneak off without the poor
noooooo nooooo no nooo noooo noooooo, no'no noooo noo noooooo noo nooo

satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs."
nooooooooooo no noooooo noo nooo noooooo noo nooo."




"And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?"
"Noo nooo nooo noo no nooo noo nooo, Noooo?"




"Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;--what else?"
"No nooo no? Nooo no noo no no nooo nooo no noo nooo;--nooo nooo?"




"Now, do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?"
"Noo, no noo nooo nooo noo noo, noo nooo nooo nooooo noo noooo, Noooo?"




"Mean or not mean, here we are at the ship."
"Nooo no noo nooo, nooo no noo no noo nooo."




The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side, where
Noo noooo nooo nooo nooooo, no noo noo noooo no noo nooooooo nooo, noooo

fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for securing
noooo nooooo noo noooo noooooooooo nooo noooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo

him.
noo.




"Didn't I tell you so?" said Flask; "yes, you'll soon see this right
"Nooo'n N nooo noo no?" nooo Noooo; "noo, noo'no nooo noo nooo noooo

whale's head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti's."
noooo'n nooo noooooo no nooooooo nooo nooooooooo'n."




In good time, Flask's saying proved true. As before, the Pequod steeply
No nooo nooo, Noooo'n nooooo nooooo nooo. No nooooo, noo Nooooo noooooo

leaned over towards the sperm whale's head, now, by the counterpoise of
nooooo nooo noooooo noo noooo noooo'n nooo, noo, no noo nooooooooooo no

both heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you may
nooo noooo, noo nooooooo noo nooo nooo; nooooo nooooo nooooooo, noo noo

well believe. So, when on one side you hoist in Locke's head, you go
nooo noooooo. No, nooo no noo nooo noo noooo no Noooo'n nooo, noo no

over that way; but now, on the other side, hoist in Kant's and you come
nooo nooo noo; noo noo, no noo noooo nooo, noooo no Nooo'n noo noo nooo

back again; but in very poor plight. Thus, some minds for ever keep
nooo noooo; noo no nooo nooo nooooo. Nooo, nooo noooo noo nooo nooo

trimming boat. Oh, ye foolish! throw all these thunder-heads overboard,
nooooooo nooo. No, no noooooo! noooo noo noooo noooooo-noooo noooooooo,

and then you will float light and right.
noo nooo noo nooo noooo noooo noo noooo.




In disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the
No noooooooo no noo nooo no n noooo noooo, nooo noooooo noooooooo noo

ship, the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the
nooo, noo nooo noooooooooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooo noooo no no noo

case of a sperm whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off
nooo no n noooo noooo; nooo, no noo nooooo nooooooo, noo nooo no noo noo

whole, but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removed and
noooo, noo no noo nooooo noo nooo noo nooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo noo

hoisted on deck, with all the well known black bone attached to what is
noooooo no nooo, nooo noo noo nooo noooo noooo nooo nooooooo no nooo no

called the crown-piece. But nothing like this, in the present case,
nooooo noo noooo-noooo. Noo noooooo nooo nooo, no noo noooooo nooo,

had been done. The carcases of both whales had dropped astern; and
noo nooo nooo. Noo nooooooo no nooo nooooo noo noooooo nooooo; noo

the head-laden ship not a little resembled a mule carrying a pair of
noo nooo-noooo nooo noo n nooooo noooooooo n nooo nooooooo n nooo no

overburdening panniers.
noooooooooooo nooooooo.




Meantime, Fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale's head, and ever
Nooooooo, Nooooooo noo nooooo nooooo noo noooo noooo'n nooo, noo nooo

and anon glancing from the deep wrinkles there to the lines in his own
noo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo noooo no noo noooo no noo noo

hand. And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee occupied his shadow;
nooo. Noo Nooo noooooo no no noooo, nooo noo Nooooo nooooooo noo nooooo;

while, if the Parsee's shadow was there at all it seemed only to
noooo, no noo Nooooo'n nooooo noo noooo no noo no nooooo nooo no

blend with, and lengthen Ahab's. As the crew toiled on, Laplandish
noooo nooo, noo nooooooo Nooo'n. No noo nooo nooooo no, Nooooooooo

speculations were bandied among them, concerning all these passing
nooooooooooo nooo noooooo noooo nooo, nooooooooo noo noooo noooooo

things.
nooooo.










CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale's Head--Contrasted View.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo Noooo'n Nooo--Nooooooooo Nooo.







Here, now, are two great whales, laying their heads together; let us
Nooo, noo, noo noo noooo nooooo, nooooo noooo noooo nooooooo; noo no

join them, and lay together our own.
nooo nooo, noo noo nooooooo noo noo.




Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and the Right
No noo noooo noooo no noooo nooooooooo, noo Noooo Noooo noo noo Noooo

Whale are by far the most noteworthy. They are the only whales regularly
Noooo noo no noo noo nooo nooooooooo. Nooo noo noo nooo nooooo noooooooo

hunted by man. To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of all
nooooo no noo. No noo Noooooooooo, nooo noooooo noo noo nooooooo no noo

the known varieties of the whale. As the external difference between
noo noooo noooooooo no noo noooo. No noo nooooooo nooooooooo noooooo

them is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this
nooo no nooooo nooooooooo no noooo noooo; noo no n nooo no nooo no nooo

moment hanging from the Pequod's side; and as we may freely go from one
nooooo noooooo nooo noo Nooooo'n nooo; noo no no noo nooooo no nooo noo

to the other, by merely stepping across the deck:--where, I should like
no noo noooo, no nooooo nooooooo nooooo noo nooo:--noooo, N nooooo nooo

to know, will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology
no nooo, nooo noo nooooo n nooooo nooooo no noooo noooooooo nooooooo

than here?
nooo nooo?




In the first place, you are struck by the general contrast between these
No noo noooo noooo, noo noo nooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo noooooo noooo

heads. Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a certain
noooo. Nooo noo noooooo nooooo no noo nooooooooo; noo noooo no n noooooo

mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale's which the Right Whale's sadly
nooooooooooo nooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo'n noooo noo Noooo Noooo'n noooo

lacks. There is more character in the Sperm Whale's head. As you behold
noooo. Noooo no nooo noooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo'n nooo. No noo nooooo

it, you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point
no, noo noooooooooooo noooo noo noooooo noooooooooo no noo, no noooo

of pervading dignity. In the present instance, too, this dignity is
no noooooooo noooooo. No noo noooooo nooooooo, noo, nooo noooooo no

heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the summit,
nooooooooo no noo nooooo noo nooo nooooo no noo nooo no noo nooooo,

giving token of advanced age and large experience. In short, he is what
nooooo noooo no nooooooo noo noo noooo nooooooooo. No noooo, no no nooo

the fishermen technically call a "grey-headed whale."
noo noooooooo noooooooooo nooo n "nooo-nooooo noooo."




Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads--namely, the two
Noo no noo nooo nooo no noooo nooooooooo no noooo noooo--nooooo, noo noo

most important organs, the eye and the ear. Far back on the side of
nooo noooooooo nooooo, noo noo noo noo noo. Noo nooo no noo nooo no

the head, and low down, near the angle of either whale's jaw, if you
noo nooo, noo noo nooo, nooo noo noooo no nooooo noooo'n noo, no noo

narrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye, which you would
nooooooo nooooo, noo nooo no nooo noo n nooooooo noo, noooo noo noooo

fancy to be a young colt's eye; so out of all proportion is it to the
noooo no no n noooo nooo'n noo; no noo no noo nooooooooo no no no noo

magnitude of the head.
noooooooo no noo nooo.




Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the whale's eyes, it is
Noo, nooo nooo nooooooo noooooo nooooooo no noo noooo'n nooo, no no

plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no more
noooo nooo no noo noooo noo no nooooo noooo no noooooo noooo, no nooo

than he can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the whale's
nooo no noo noo noooooo nooooo. No n nooo, noo nooooooo no noo noooo'n

eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for
nooo noooooooooo no nooo no n noo'n nooo; noo noo noo noooo, noo

yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects
nooooooo, noo no noooo nooo nooo noo, noo noo nooooooo nooooo noooooo

through your ears. You would find that you could only command some
noooooo nooo nooo. Noo noooo nooo nooo noo noooo nooo noooooo nooo

thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight;
nooooo noooooo no nooooo no noooooo no noo nooooooo nooo-nooo no noooo;

and about thirty more behind it. If your bitterest foe were walking
noo noooo nooooo nooo nooooo no. No nooo noooooooo noo nooo noooooo

straight towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not
nooooooo noooooo noo, nooo nooooo nooooooo no noooo noo, noo noooo noo

be able to see him, any more than if he were stealing upon you from
no nooo no noo noo, noo nooo nooo no no nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo

behind. In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at the
nooooo. No n nooo, noo noooo nooo noo noooo, no no noooo; noo, no noo

same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes the
nooo nooo, nooo, noo nooooo (nooo nooooo): noo nooo no no nooo noooo noo

front of a man--what, indeed, but his eyes?
noooo no n noo--nooo, nooooo, noo noo nooo?




Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes
Nooooooo, noooo no nooo noooo noooooo nooo N noo noo noooo no, noo nooo

are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to
noo no noooooo no noooooooooooo no noooo noooo nooooo noooo, no no no

produce one picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of
noooooo noo noooooo noo noo noo no noo noooo; noo nooooooo nooooooo no

the whale's eyes, effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of
noo noooo'n nooo, noooooooooo noooooo no nooo noo no nooo noooo nooo no

solid head, which towers between them like a great mountain separating
noooo nooo, noooo nooooo noooooo nooo nooo n noooo nooooooo nooooooooo

two lakes in valleys; this, of course, must wholly separate the
noo noooo no noooooo; nooo, no nooooo, nooo nooooo nooooooo noo

impressions which each independent organ imparts. The whale, therefore,
noooooooooo noooo nooo noooooooooo noooo noooooo. Noo noooo, noooooooo,

must see one distinct picture on this side, and another distinct
nooo noo noo nooooooo noooooo no nooo nooo, noo noooooo nooooooo

picture on that side; while all between must be profound darkness and
noooooo no nooo nooo; noooo noo noooooo nooo no nooooooo nooooooo noo

nothingness to him. Man may, in effect, be said to look out on the world
noooooooooo no noo. Noo noo, no nooooo, no nooo no nooo noo no noo noooo

from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window. But with the
nooo n nooooo-noo nooo noo nooooo nooooo noo noo nooooo. Noo nooo noo

whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making two distinct
noooo, noooo noo nooooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo, nooooo noo nooooooo

windows, but sadly impairing the view. This peculiarity of the whale's
noooooo, noo noooo noooooooo noo nooo. Nooo noooooooooo no noo noooo'n

eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and to be
nooo no n noooo nooooo no no noooo no nooo no noo noooooo; noo no no

remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes.
nooooooooo no noo nooooo no nooo nooooooooo nooooo.




A curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning this
N noooooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooooo noooo no noooooo nooooooooo nooo

visual matter as touching the Leviathan. But I must be content with a
nooooo nooooo no nooooooo noo Noooooooo. Noo N nooo no noooooo nooo n

hint. So long as a man's eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing
nooo. No nooo no n noo'n nooo noo nooo no noo noooo, noo noo no nooooo

is involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing
no noooooooooo; nooo no, no nooooo nooo nooo nooooooooooo nooooo

whatever objects are before him. Nevertheless, any one's experience
nooooooo noooooo noo nooooo noo. Nooooooooooo, noo noo'n nooooooooo

will teach him, that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of
nooo noooo noo, nooo nooooo no noo nooo no no nooooooooooooooo noooo no

things at one glance, it is quite impossible for him, attentively,
nooooo no noo nooooo, no no noooo nooooooooo noo noo, noooooooooo,

and completely, to examine any two things--however large or however
noo nooooooooo, no noooooo noo noo nooooo--noooooo noooo no noooooo

small--at one and the same instant of time; never mind if they lie side
noooo--no noo noo noo nooo noooooo no nooo; noooo nooo no nooo noo nooo

by side and touch each other. But if you now come to separate these two
no nooo noo noooo nooo noooo. Noo no noo noo nooo no nooooooo noooo noo

objects, and surround each by a circle of profound darkness; then, in
noooooo, noo nooooooo nooo no n nooooo no nooooooo nooooooo; nooo, no

order to see one of them, in such a manner as to bring your mind to
noooo no noo noo no nooo, no nooo n nooooo no no noooo nooo nooo no

bear on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your contemporary
nooo no no, noo noooo nooo no noooooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooooooooo

consciousness. How is it, then, with the whale? True, both his eyes,
noooooooooooo. Noo no no, nooo, nooo noo noooo? Nooo, nooo noo nooo,

in themselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more
no nooooooooo, nooo nooooooooooooo noo; noo no noo noooo no nooo nooo

comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man's, that he can at the same
noooooooooooo, noooooooo, noo nooooo nooo noo'n, nooo no noo no noo nooo

moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on one
nooooo no nooo noooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo, noo no noo

side of him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction? If he
nooo no noo, noo noo noooo no no noooooo nooooooo noooooooo? No no

can, then is it as marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able
noo, nooo no no no nooooooooo n noooo no noo, no no n noo nooo nooo

simultaneously to go through the demonstrations of two distinct problems
nooooooooooooo no no noooooo noo nooooooooooooo no noo nooooooo nooooooo

in Euclid. Nor, strictly investigated, is there any incongruity in this
no Nooooo. Noo, nooooooo nooooooooooo, no noooo noo noooooooooo no nooo

comparison.
nooooooooo.




It may be but an idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the
No noo no noo no nooo nooo, noo no noo nooooo nooooo no no, nooo noo

extraordinary vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when
noooooooooooo nooooooooooo no nooooooo noooooooo no nooo nooooo nooo

beset by three or four boats; the timidity and liability to queer
noooo no noooo no nooo noooo; noo nooooooo noo noooooooo no noooo

frights, so common to such whales; I think that all this indirectly
noooooo, no nooooo no nooo nooooo; N noooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooo

proceeds from the helpless perplexity of volition, in which their
nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo no nooooooo, no noooo noooo

divided and diametrically opposite powers of vision must involve them.
noooooo noo noooooooooooo nooooooo nooooo no nooooo nooo noooooo nooo.




But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye. If you are an
Noo noo noo no noo noooo no nooo no noooooo no noo noo. No noo noo no

entire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two heads
nooooo nooooooo no noooo nooo, noo noooo nooo nooo noooo noo noooo

for hours, and never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf
noo noooo, noo noooo nooooooo nooo noooo. Noo noo noo no nooooooo nooo

whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
nooooooo; noo nooo noo nooo nooooo noo noo nooooo nooooo n noooo, no

wondrously minute is it. It is lodged a little behind the eye. With
nooooooooo nooooo no no. No no nooooo n nooooo nooooo noo noo. Nooo

respect to their ears, this important difference is to be observed
noooooo no noooo nooo, nooo noooooooo nooooooooo no no no nooooooo

between the sperm whale and the right. While the ear of the former has
noooooo noo noooo noooo noo noo noooo. Noooo noo noo no noo nooooo noo

an external opening, that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered
no nooooooo noooooo, nooo no noo nooooo no nooooooo noo nooooo noooooo

over with a membrane, so as to be quite imperceptible from without.
nooo nooo n nooooooo, no no no no noooo noooooooooooo nooo noooooo.




Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the
No no noo noooooo, nooo no nooo n noooo no noo noooo nooooo noo noo

world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear which
noooo noooooo no noooo no noo, noo nooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo noooo

is smaller than a hare's? But if his eyes were broad as the lens of
no noooooo nooo n nooo'n? Noo no noo nooo nooo noooo no noo nooo no

Herschel's great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of
Nooooooo'n noooo noooooooo; noo noo nooo noooooooo no noo noooooo no

cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
nooooooooo; noooo nooo nooo noo noo nooooo no noooo, no noooooo no

hearing? Not at all.--Why then do you try to "enlarge" your mind?
noooooo? Noo no noo.--Noo nooo no noo noo no "noooooo" nooo nooo?

Subtilize it.
Noooooooo no.




Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
Noo no noo nooo nooooooo nooooo noo noooo-noooooo no nooo no nooo, nooo

over the sperm whale's head, that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending
nooo noo noooo noooo'n nooo, nooo no noo noo nooooo no; nooo, noooooooo

by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not
no n nooooo no noo nooooo, nooo n nooo nooo noo noooo; noo nooo no noo

that the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we
nooo noo nooo no noo nooooooooo noooooooo nooo no, nooo n noooooo no

might descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. But
noooo noooooo nooo noo noooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooo no noo noooooo. Noo

let us hold on here by this tooth, and look about us where we are. What
noo no nooo no nooo no nooo noooo, noo nooo noooo no noooo no noo. Nooo

a really beautiful and chaste-looking mouth! from floor to ceiling,
n nooooo noooooooo noo nooooo-noooooo noooo! nooo noooo no noooooo,

lined, or rather papered with a glistening white membrane, glossy as
noooo, no nooooo noooooo nooo n nooooooooo noooo nooooooo, nooooo no

bridal satins.
nooooo nooooo.




But come out now, and look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems
Noo nooo noo noo, noo nooo no nooo nooooooooo noooo noo, noooo noooo

like the long narrow lid of an immense snuff-box, with the hinge at one
nooo noo nooo nooooo noo no no noooooo noooo-noo, nooo noo noooo no noo

end, instead of one side. If you pry it up, so as to get it overhead,
noo, noooooo no noo nooo. No noo noo no no, no no no noo no nooooooo,

and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a terrific portcullis; and such,
noo nooooo noo nooo no noooo, no noooo n nooooooo nooooooooo; noo nooo,

alas! it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery, upon whom these
nooo! no nooooo no nooo n nooo noooo no noo noooooo, nooo nooo noooo

spikes fall with impaling force. But far more terrible is it to behold,
nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo noooo. Noo noo nooo nooooooo no no no nooooo,

when fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky whale, floating there
nooo noooooo nooo no noo noo, noo noo nooo noooo noooo, nooooooo noooo

suspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet long, hanging
noooooooo, nooo noo nooooooooo noo, nooo noooooo nooo nooo, noooooo

straight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world like a
nooooooo nooo no noooo-nooooo nooo noo nooo, noo noo noo noooo nooo n

ship's jib-boom. This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out of
nooo'n noo-nooo. Nooo noooo no noo nooo; no no nooo nooooooooo; noo no

sorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his
noooo, noooooo; noooooooooooo; noo no nooooo, nooo noo nooooo no noo

jaw have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a
noo nooo noooooo, noooooo noo noooo no nooo nooooooo nooo no nooooo, n

reproach to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon
nooooooo no noo noo noooo, noo nooo, no noooo, noooooooo nooo-nooo nooo

him.
noo.




In most cases this lower jaw--being easily unhinged by a practised
No nooo noooo nooo noooo noo--noooo nooooo nooooooo no n noooooooo

artist--is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting
nooooo--no nooooooooo noo noooooo no nooo noo noo noooooo no nooooooooo

the ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone
noo noooo noooo, noo nooooooooo n nooooo no nooo nooo noooo noooooooo

with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles,
nooo noooo noo noooooooo noooooo noo noooo no noooooo nooooooo,

including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to riding-whips.
noooooooo noooo, nooooooo-nooooo, noo noooooo no nooooo-noooo.




With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it were an
Nooo n nooo, noooo noooo noo noo no noooooo no noooo, no no no nooo no

anchor; and when the proper time comes--some few days after the other
nooooo; noo nooo noo nooooo nooo noooo--nooo noo nooo noooo noo noooo

work--Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists,
nooo--Nooooooo, Nooooo, noo Nooooooo, noooo noo nooooooooooo nooooooo,

are set to drawing teeth. With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances
noo noo no noooooo noooo. Nooo n nooo noooooo-noooo, Nooooooo nooooo

the gums; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being
noo nooo; nooo noo noo no nooooo nooo no noooooooo, noo n nooooo noooo

rigged from aloft, they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag
nooooo nooo noooo, nooo nooo noo noooo noooo, no Nooooooo nooo nooo

stumps of old oaks out of wild wood lands. There are generally forty-two
nooooo no noo nooo noo no nooo nooo noooo. Noooo noo noooooooo noooo-noo

teeth in all; in old whales, much worn down, but undecayed; nor filled
noooo no noo; no noo nooooo, nooo nooo nooo, noo noooooooo; noo nooooo

after our artificial fashion. The jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs, and
noooo noo nooooooooo noooooo. Noo noo no nooooooooo nooo nooo noooo, noo

piled away like joists for building houses.
noooo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooooo.










CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale's Head--Contrasted View.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo Noooo'n Nooo--Nooooooooo Nooo.







Crossing the deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale's
Nooooooo noo nooo, noo no noo nooo n nooo nooo nooo no noo Noooo Noooo'n

head.
nooo.




As in general shape the noble Sperm Whale's head may be compared to a
No no noooooo noooo noo noooo Noooo Noooo'n nooo noo no nooooooo no n

Roman war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly rounded);
Noooo noo-noooooo (nooooooooo no noooo, noooo no no no noooooo noooooo);

so, at a broad view, the Right Whale's head bears a rather inelegant
no, no n noooo nooo, noo Noooo Noooo'n nooo noooo n nooooo noooooooo

resemblance to a gigantic galliot-toed shoe. Two hundred years ago an
noooooooooo no n nooooooo noooooo-nooo nooo. Noo noooooo noooo noo no

old Dutch voyager likened its shape to that of a shoemaker's last. And
noo Noooo noooooo noooooo noo noooo no nooo no n noooooooo'n nooo. Noo

in this same last or shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with
no nooo nooo nooo no nooo, nooo noo noooo no noo noooooo nooo, nooo

the swarming brood, might very comfortably be lodged, she and all her
noo nooooooo noooo, noooo nooo noooooooooo no nooooo, noo noo noo noo

progeny.
noooooo.




But as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume different
Noo no noo nooo nooooo no nooo noooo nooo no nooooo no nooooo noooooooo

aspects, according to your point of view. If you stand on its summit and
noooooo, noooooooo no nooo noooo no nooo. No noo noooo no noo nooooo noo

look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the whole head
nooo no noooo noo N-nooooo nooooooooo, noo noooo nooo noo noooo nooo

for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in its
noo no nooooooo nooo-nooo, noo noooo noooooooo, noo noooooooo no noo

sounding-board. Then, again, if you fix your eye upon this strange,
nooooooo-noooo. Nooo, noooo, no noo noo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo,

crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass--this green,
noooooo, nooo-nooo nooooooooooo no noo noo no noo nooo--nooo noooo,

barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the "crown," and the
noooooooo noooo, noooo noo Nooooooooooo nooo noo "noooo," noo noo

Southern fishers the "bonnet" of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes
Nooooooo noooooo noo "nooooo" no noo Noooo Noooo; nooooo nooo nooo

solely on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak,
nooooo no nooo, noo noooo nooo noo nooo noo noo noooo no nooo nooo noo,

with a bird's nest in its crotch. At any rate, when you watch those live
nooo n nooo'n nooo no noo nooooo. No noo nooo, nooo noo noooo noooo nooo

crabs that nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost
noooo nooo nooooo nooo no nooo nooooo, nooo no nooo nooo no nooooo

sure to occur to you; unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the
nooo no noooo no noo; nooooo, nooooo, nooo noooo noo nooo noooo no noo

technical term "crown" also bestowed upon it; in which case you will
noooooooo nooo "noooo" nooo nooooooo nooo no; no noooo nooo noo nooo

take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a
nooo noooo nooooooo no nooooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooo no nooooooo n

diademed king of the sea, whose green crown has been put together for
nooooooo nooo no noo noo, noooo noooo noooo noo nooo noo nooooooo noo

him in this marvellous manner. But if this whale be a king, he is a very
noo no nooo nooooooooo nooooo. Noo no nooo noooo no n nooo, no no n nooo

sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem. Look at that hanging lower lip!
noooo noooooo nooooo no noooo n nooooo. Nooo no nooo noooooo noooo noo!

what a huge sulk and pout is there! a sulk and pout, by carpenter's
nooo n nooo nooo noo nooo no noooo! n nooo noo nooo, no noooooooo'n

measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep; a sulk and pout
noooooooooo, noooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo nooo nooo; n nooo noo nooo

that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.
nooo nooo noooo noo nooo noo noooooo no noo noo nooo.




A great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped.
N noooo nooo, noo, nooo nooo noooooooooo noooo nooooo no nooo-nooooo.

The fissure is about a foot across. Probably the mother during an
Noo noooooo no noooo n nooo nooooo. Nooooooo noo nooooo nooooo no

important interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes
noooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo nooo noo Nooooooo noooo, nooo noooooooooo

caused the beach to gape. Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold,
nooooo noo noooo no nooo. Nooo nooo noo, no nooo n nooooooo noooooooo,

we now slide into the mouth. Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should
no noo noooo nooo noo noooo. Nooo no nooo nooo N no Nooooooo, N nooooo

take this to be the inside of an Indian wigwam. Good Lord! is this the
nooo nooo no no noo nooooo no no Nooooo nooooo. Nooo Nooo! no nooo noo

road that Jonah went? The roof is about twelve feet high, and runs to a
nooo nooo Noooo nooo? Noo nooo no noooo nooooo nooo nooo, noo nooo no n

pretty sharp angle, as if there were a regular ridge-pole there; while
nooooo noooo noooo, no no noooo nooo n noooooo noooo-nooo noooo; noooo

these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us with those wondrous, half
noooo nooooo, nooooo, noooo noooo, noooooo no nooo noooo nooooooo, nooo

vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whalebone, say three hundred on a
nooooooo, nooooooo-nooooo noooo no noooooooo, noo noooo noooooo no n

side, which depending from the upper part of the head or crown
nooo, noooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo no noo nooo no noooo

bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere been cursorily
nooo, nooo noooo Nooooooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooooo nooo noooooooo

mentioned. The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres,
noooooooo. Noo noooo no noooo noooo noo noooooo nooo noooo nooooo,

through which the Right Whale strains the water, and in whose
noooooo noooo noo Noooo Noooo noooooo noo noooo, noo no noooo

intricacies he retains the small fish, when openmouthed he goes through
noooooooooo no noooooo noo noooo nooo, nooo noooooooooo no nooo noooooo

the seas of brit in feeding time. In the central blinds of bone, as they
noo nooo no nooo no noooooo nooo. No noo noooooo nooooo no nooo, no nooo

stand in their natural order, there are certain curious marks, curves,
noooo no noooo noooooo noooo, noooo noo noooooo noooooo noooo, nooooo,

hollows, and ridges, whereby some whalemen calculate the creature's age,
noooooo, noo nooooo, noooooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo'n noo,

as the age of an oak by its circular rings. Though the certainty of this
no noo noo no no noo no noo nooooooo noooo. Nooooo noo noooooooo no nooo

criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the savor of analogical
noooooooo no noo nooo nooooooooooo, noo no noo noo noooo no nooooooooo

probability. At any rate, if we yield to it, we must grant a far greater
noooooooooo. No noo nooo, no no noooo no no, no nooo noooo n noo noooooo

age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable.
noo no noo Noooo Noooo nooo no noooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooooo.




In old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies
No noo noooo, noooo nooo no nooo noooooooo noo nooo noooooo noooooo

concerning these blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous
nooooooooo noooo nooooo. Noo noooooo no Noooooo noooo nooo noo nooooooo

"whiskers" inside of the whale's mouth;* another, "hogs' bristles"; a
"nooooooo" nooooo no noo noooo'n noooo;* noooooo, "nooo' nooooooo"; n

third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language:
noooo noo noooooooo no Nooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo nooooooo:

"There are about two hundred and fifty fins growing on each side of his
"Noooo noo noooo noo noooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo no nooo nooo no noo

upper CHOP, which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth."
noooo NOOO, noooo nooo nooo noo nooooo no nooo nooo no noo noooo."







*This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or
*Nooo noooooo no nooo noo Noooo Noooo nooooo noo n nooo no noooooo, no

rather a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the
nooooo n noooooooo, nooooooooo no n noo noooooooo noooo noooo no noo

upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw. Sometimes these
noooo nooo no noo noooo noo no noo noooo noo. Noooooooo noooo

tufts impart a rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn
noooo nooooo n nooooo nooooooooo nooooooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo

countenance.
noooooooooo.







As every one knows, these same "hogs' bristles," "fins," "whiskers,"
No noooo noo noooo, noooo nooo "nooo' nooooooo," "nooo," "nooooooo,"

"blinds," or whatever you please, furnish to the ladies their busks and
"nooooo," no nooooooo noo nooooo, noooooo no noo nooooo noooo noooo noo

other stiffening contrivances. But in this particular, the demand has
noooo nooooooooo nooooooooooo. Noo no nooo nooooooooo, noo nooooo noo

long been on the decline. It was in Queen Anne's time that the bone was
nooo nooo no noo noooooo. No noo no Noooo Nooo'n nooo nooo noo nooo noo

in its glory, the farthingale being then all the fashion. And as those
no noo noooo, noo noooooooooo noooo nooo noo noo noooooo. Noo no noooo

ancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of the whale, as
noooooo noooo noooo noooo noooo, nooooo no noo nooo no noo noooo, no

you may say; even so, in a shower, with the like thoughtlessness, do we
noo noo noo; nooo no, no n nooooo, nooo noo nooo noooooooooooooo, no no

nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a
nooooooo noo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooooooo; noo nooooooo noooo n

tent spread over the same bone.
nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooo.




But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing
Noo noo nooooo noo noooo nooooo noo nooooooo noo n nooooo, noo, nooooooo

in the Right Whale's mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing all these
no noo Noooo Noooo'n noooo, nooo nooooo noo nooooo. Nooooo noo noooo

colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not think
nooooooooo no nooo no nooooooooooo nooooo noooo, noooo noo noo noooo

you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its
noo nooo nooooo no noo noooo Noooooo noooo, noo nooooo nooo noo

thousand pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest
nooooooo noooo? Noo n nooooo no noo noooo no nooo n noo no noo noooooo

Turkey--the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of the
Nooooo--noo nooooo, noooo no noooo, no no nooo, no noo noooo no noo

mouth. It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting
noooo. No no nooo noo noo nooooo, noo noo no nooo no nooooo no nooooooo

it on deck. This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I
no no nooo. Nooo nooooooooo nooooo noo nooooo no; no n noooooo nooooo N

should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that
nooooo noo no noo n noo-nooooooo; nooo no, no nooo noooo noo noooo nooo

amount of oil.
nooooo no noo.




Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I started
Noo nooo, noo nooo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo no nooo N noooooo

with--that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
nooo--nooo noo Noooo Noooo noo noo Noooo Noooo nooo nooooo nooooooo

different heads. To sum up, then: in the Right Whale's there is no great
noooooooo noooo. No noo no, nooo: no noo Noooo Noooo'n noooo no no noooo

well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a
nooo no noooo; no noooo noooo no noo; no nooo, noooooo nooooooo no n

lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale's. Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any
noooo noo, nooo noo Noooo Noooo'n. Noo no noo Noooo Noooo noo noooo noo

of those blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely anything of a
no noooo nooooo no nooo; no nooo noooo noo; noo nooooooo nooooooo no n

tongue. Again, the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm
nooooo. Noooo, noo Noooo Noooo noo noo nooooooo noooo-noooo, noo Noooo

Whale only one.
Noooo nooo noo.




Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet lie
Nooo nooo nooo, noo, no noooo noooooooo nooooo noooo, noooo nooo noo noo

together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will
nooooooo; noo noo nooo nooo nooo, nooooooooo, no noo noo; noo noooo nooo

not be very long in following.
noo no nooo nooo no noooooooo.




Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale's there? It is the same
Noo noo noooo noo nooooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo'n noooo? No no noo nooo

he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem
no nooo nooo, nooo nooo no noo nooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo nooo

now faded away. I think his broad brow to be full of a prairie-like
noo noooo nooo. N noooo noo noooo nooo no no nooo no n noooooo-nooo

placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death. But mark the
noooooooo, nooo no n noooooooooo nooooooooooo no no noooo. Noo nooo noo

other head's expression. See that amazing lower lip, pressed by accident
noooo nooo'n nooooooooo. Noo nooo noooooo noooo noo, noooooo no nooooooo

against the vessel's side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw. Does not
noooooo noo nooooo'n nooo, no no nooooo no noooooo noo noo. Nooo noo

this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in
nooo noooo nooo nooo no noooo no no nooooooo noooooooo nooooooooo no

facing death? This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm
nooooo noooo? Nooo Noooo Noooo N nooo no nooo nooo n Noooo; noo Noooo

Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years.
Noooo, n Noooooooo, noo noooo nooo noooo no Noooooo no noo nooooo noooo.










CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooooo-Noo.







Ere quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale's head, I would have
Noo nooooooo, noo noo noooo, noo Noooo Noooo'n nooo, N noooo nooo

you, as a sensible physiologist, simply--particularly remark its front
noo, no n nooooooo nooooooooooo, nooooo--nooooooooooo nooooo noo noooo

aspect, in all its compacted collectedness. I would have you investigate
nooooo, no noo noo noooooooo noooooooooooo. N noooo nooo noo noooooooooo

it now with the sole view of forming to yourself some unexaggerated,
no noo nooo noo nooo nooo no noooooo no nooooooo nooo noooooooooooo,

intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may be lodged
noooooooooo nooooooo no nooooooo noooooooo-noo noooo noo no nooooo

there. Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily settle
noooo. Nooo no n noooo noooo; noo noo nooo nooooo nooooooooooooo nooooo

this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an infidel as to one of
nooo nooooo nooo nooooooo, no noo nooo nooooo no noooooo no no noo no

the most appalling, but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be
noo nooo noooooooo, noo noo noo nooo nooo nooooo, noooooo nooooooo no no

found in all recorded history.
noooo no noo nooooooo noooooo.




You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm Whale,
Noo noooooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooooooo nooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo,

the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the
noo noooo no noo nooo nooooooo no nooooo nooooo nooooooo noooo no noo

water; you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably
noooo; noo noooooo nooo noo noooo nooo no nooo noooo nooooo nooooooooooo

backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which
noooooooo, no no no noooooo nooo no n noooooo noo noo nooo nooooo noooo

receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely
nooooooo noo nooo-nooo noooo noo; noo noooooo nooo noo noooo no nooooooo

under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth
noooo noo nooo, nooo no noo nooo noo, nooooo, no nooooo nooo noo noooo

were entirely under your chin. Moreover you observe that the whale has
nooo nooooooo noooo nooo nooo. Nooooooo noo noooooo nooo noo noooo noo

no external nose; and that what nose he has--his spout hole--is on the
no nooooooo nooo; noo nooo nooo nooo no noo--noo noooo nooo--no no noo

top of his head; you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides
noo no noo nooo; noo noooooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo noo no noo noooo

of his head, nearly one third of his entire length from the front.
no noo nooo, nooooo noo noooo no noo nooooo nooooo nooo noo noooo.

Wherefore, you must now have perceived that the front of the Sperm
Noooooooo, noo nooo noo nooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo no noo Noooo

Whale's head is a dead, blind wall, without a single organ or tender
Noooo'n nooo no n nooo, noooo nooo, noooooo n nooooo noooo no nooooo

prominence of any sort whatsoever. Furthermore, you are now to consider
nooooooooo no noo nooo nooooooooo. Noooooooooo, noo noo noo no nooooooo

that only in the extreme, lower, backward sloping part of the front of
nooo nooo no noo noooooo, noooo, nooooooo noooooo nooo no noo noooo no

the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone; and not till you
noo nooo, no noooo noo noooooooo noooooo no nooo; noo noo nooo noo

get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the full cranial
noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo no noo nooo noooooo

development. So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one wad.
noooooooooo. No nooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo no no noo noo.

Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents partly comprise
Noooooo, nooooo, no nooo nooo no nooooooo, noo nooooooo nooooo nooooooo

the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised of the nature of
noo nooo nooooooo noo; noo, noo noo noo no no nooooooo no noo nooooo no

the substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy.
noo noooooooo noooo no noooooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooooooo.

In some previous place I have described to you how the blubber wraps the
No nooo nooooooo noooo N nooo noooooooo no noo noo noo noooooo noooo noo

body of the whale, as the rind wraps an orange. Just so with the head;
nooo no noo noooo, no noo nooo noooo no nooooo. Nooo no nooo noo nooo;

but with this difference: about the head this envelope, though not so
noo nooo nooo nooooooooo: noooo noo nooo nooo nooooooo, nooooo noo no

thick, is of a boneless toughness, inestimable by any man who has not
noooo, no no n nooooooo noooooooo, noooooooooo no noo noo noo noo noo

handled it. The severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by
noooooo no. Noo nooooooo noooooo noooooo, noo nooooooo noooo nooooo no

the strongest human arm, impotently rebounds from it. It is as though
noo noooooooo noooo noo, nooooooooo nooooooo nooo no. No no no nooooo

the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved with horses' hoofs. I do not
noo nooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo nooo noooo nooo nooooo' noooo. N no noo

think that any sensation lurks in it.
noooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo no no.




Bethink yourself also of another thing. When two large, loaded Indiamen
Noooooo nooooooo nooo no noooooo noooo. Nooo noo noooo, nooooo Nooooooo

chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the
nooooo no noooo noo noooo noooooo nooo noooo no noo noooo, nooo no noo

sailors do? They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
noooooo no? Nooo no noo noooooo noooooo nooo, no noo noooo no nooooo

contact, any merely hard substance, like iron or wood. No, they hold
noooooo, noo nooooo nooo noooooooo, nooo nooo no nooo. No, nooo nooo

there a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest
noooo n noooo, noooo noo no noo noo nooo, noooooooo no noo nooooooo

and toughest of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which
noo nooooooo no no-nooo. Nooo noooooo noo noooooooo noooo noo noo noooo

would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars. By
noooo nooo noooooo noo noooo noooo nooooooooo noo nooo nooo-nooo. No

itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at. But
nooooo nooo nooooooooooo noooooooooo noo noooooo nooo N noooo no. Noo

supplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that
noooooooooooo no nooo, no noo nooooooooooooo nooooooo no no, nooo

as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them,
no nooooooo nooo noooooo nooo no nooooo n nooooooo noooooo no nooo,

capable, at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale,
noooooo, no nooo, no nooooooooo no noooooooooo; noo no noo Noooo Noooo,

as far as I know, has no such provision in him; considering, too,
no noo no N nooo, noo no nooo noooooooo no noo; noooooooooo, noo,

the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head
noo noooooooo nooooooooooo nooooo no noooo no noo noooooooo noo nooo

altogether beneath the surface, and anon swims with it high elevated out
nooooooooo noooooo noo noooooo, noo nooo noooo nooo no nooo nooooooo noo

of the water; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope;
no noo noooo; noooooooooo noo nooooooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooooo;

considering the unique interior of his head; it has hypothetically
noooooooooo noo nooooo nooooooo no noo nooo; no noo nooooooooooooo

occurred to me, I say, that those mystical lung-celled honeycombs there
nooooooo no no, N noo, nooo noooo nooooooo nooo-nooooo nooooooooo noooo

may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with
noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo noooooo noo noooooooooo noooooooo nooo

the outer air, so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and
noo noooo noo, no no no no noooooooooo no noooooooooo nooooooooo noo

contraction. If this be so, fancy the irresistibleness of that might, to
noooooooooo. No nooo no no, noooo noo nooooooooooooooo no nooo noooo, no

which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes.
noooo noo nooo nooooooooo noo noooooooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooooo.




Now, mark. Unerringly impelling this dead, impregnable, uninjurable
Noo, nooo. Nooooooooo noooooooo nooo nooo, noooooooooo, noooooooooo

wall, and this most buoyant thing within; there swims behind it all a
nooo, noo nooo nooo noooooo noooo nooooo; noooo noooo nooooo no noo n

mass of tremendous life, only to be adequately estimated as piled wood
nooo no nooooooooo nooo, nooo no no nooooooooo noooooooo no noooo nooo

is--by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as the smallest
no--no noo nooo; noo noo nooooooo no noo nooooooo, no noo nooooooo

insect. So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the
nooooo. No nooo nooo N noooo noooooooo nooooo no noo noo noo

specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this
nooooooooooo noo nooooooooooooo no noooooo nooooooooo noooooo no nooo

expansive monster; when I shall show you some of his more inconsiderable
noooooooo noooooo; nooo N noooo nooo noo nooo no noo nooo nooooooooooooo

braining feats; I trust you will have renounced all ignorant
nooooooo noooo; N noooo noo nooo nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo

incredulity, and be ready to abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale
noooooooooo, noo no noooo no noooo no nooo; nooo nooooo noo Noooo Noooo

stove a passage through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixed the Atlantic
noooo n noooooo noooooo noo Noooooo no Nooooo, noo noooo noo Nooooooo

with the Pacific, you would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow. For
nooo noo Noooooo, noo noooo noo noooooo noo nooo no nooo noo-nooo. Noo

unless you own the whale, you are but a provincial and sentimentalist
nooooo noo noo noo noooo, noo noo noo n nooooooooo noo nooooooooooooo

in Truth. But clear Truth is a thing for salamander giants only to
no Noooo. Noo noooo Noooo no n noooo noo nooooooooo nooooo nooo no

encounter; how small the chances for the provincials then? What befell
noooooooo; noo noooo noo noooooo noo noo noooooooooo nooo? Nooo nooooo

the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's veil at Lais?
noo nooooooo noooo noooooo noo noooo noooooo'n nooo no Nooo?










CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo Noooooooooo Noo.







Now comes the Baling of the Case. But to comprehend it aright, you must
Noo noooo noo Nooooo no noo Nooo. Noo no nooooooooo no nooooo, noo nooo

know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated
nooo noooooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo noooooooo no noo noooo nooooooo

upon.
nooo.




Regarding the Sperm Whale's head as a solid oblong, you may, on an
Noooooooo noo Noooo Noooo'n nooo no n noooo nooooo, noo noo, no no

inclined plane, sideways divide it into two quoins,* whereof the lower
nooooooo noooo, nooooooo nooooo no nooo noo nooooo,* noooooo noo noooo

is the bony structure, forming the cranium and jaws, and the upper an
no noo nooo noooooooo, noooooo noo noooooo noo nooo, noo noo noooo no

unctuous mass wholly free from bones; its broad forward end forming the
nooooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo; noo noooo noooooo noo noooooo noo

expanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale. At the middle of the
nooooooo nooooooo nooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo. No noo nooooo no noo

forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin, and then you have two
nooooooo nooooooooooo noooooooo nooo noooo noooo, noo nooo noo nooo noo

almost equal parts, which before were naturally divided by an internal
nooooo noooo noooo, noooo nooooo nooo noooooooo noooooo no no nooooooo

wall of a thick tendinous substance.
nooo no n noooo noooooooo noooooooo.







*Quoin is not a Euclidean term. It belongs to the pure nautical
*Noooo no noo n Noooooooo nooo. No noooooo no noo nooo nooooooo

mathematics. I know not that it has been defined before. A quoin is a
noooooooooo. N nooo noo nooo no noo nooo noooooo nooooo. N noooo no n

solid which differs from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the
noooo noooo noooooo nooo n noooo no nooooo noo noooo noo nooooo no noo

steep inclination of one side, instead of the mutual tapering of both
noooo noooooooooo no noo nooo, noooooo no noo nooooo nooooooo no nooo

sides.
noooo.







The lower subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb
Noo noooo nooooooooo nooo, nooooo noo nooo, no noo noooooo noooooooo

of oil, formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand
no noo, nooooo no noo nooooooo noo nooooooooo, nooo noo nooooooo

infiltrated cells, of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole
noooooooooo noooo, no noooo noooooo noooo nooooo nooooooooo noo noooo

extent. The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great
nooooo. Noo noooo nooo, noooo no noo Nooo, noo no nooooooo no noo noooo

Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is
Noooooooooo Noo no noo Noooo Noooo. Noo no nooo nooooo noooo nooooo no

mystically carved in front, so the whale's vast plaited forehead forms
nooooooooo nooooo no noooo, no noo noooo'n nooo noooooo nooooooo noooo

innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his
noooooooooo noooooo noooooo noo noo nooooooooooo noooooooo no noo

wondrous tun. Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished
nooooooo noo. Nooooooo, no nooo no Noooooooooo noo nooooo noooooooooo

with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so the tun
nooo noo nooo noooooooo no noo noooo no noo Noooooo noooooo, no noo noo

of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily vintages;
no noo noooo nooooooo no noo noo nooo nooooooo no noo noo nooo nooooooo;

namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure, limpid,
nooooo, noo nooooo-nooooo nooooooooo, no noo nooooooooo nooo, nooooo,

and odoriferous state. Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed
noo noooooooooo noooo. Noo no nooo nooooooo noooooooo noooo noooooooo

in any other part of the creature. Though in life it remains perfectly
no noo noooo nooo no noo nooooooo. Nooooo no nooo no noooooo noooooooo

fluid, yet, upon exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to
noooo, noo, nooo nooooooo no noo noo, noooo noooo, no nooo nooooo no

concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the
nooooooo; noooooo noooo noooooooo noooooooooo nooooo, no nooo noo

first thin delicate ice is just forming in water. A large whale's
noooo nooo nooooooo noo no nooo noooooo no noooo. N noooo noooo'n

case generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm, though from
nooo noooooooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooo noooooo no noooo, nooooo nooo

unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it is spilled, leaks, and
noooooooooo noooooooooooo, nooooooooooo no no no noooooo, noooo, noo

dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklish business
nooooooo nooo, no no noooooooo noooooooooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooooooo

of securing what you can.
no nooooooo nooo noo noo.




I know not with what fine and costly material the Heidelburgh Tun
N nooo noo nooo nooo nooo noo nooooo nooooooo noo Noooooooooo Noo

was coated within, but in superlative richness that coating could not
noo nooooo nooooo, noo no noooooooooo nooooooo nooo noooooo noooo noo

possibly have compared with the silken pearl-coloured membrane, like the
nooooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo noooo-nooooooo nooooooo, nooo noo

lining of a fine pelisse, forming the inner surface of the Sperm Whale's
nooooo no n nooo noooooo, noooooo noo noooo noooooo no noo Noooo Noooo'n

case.
nooo.




It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale
No nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo noo Noooooooooo Noo no noo Noooo Noooo

embraces the entire length of the entire top of the head; and since--as
nooooooo noo nooooo nooooo no noo nooooo noo no noo nooo; noo noooo--no

has been elsewhere set forth--the head embraces one third of the whole
noo nooo noooooooo noo noooo--noo nooo nooooooo noo noooo no noo noooo

length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty feet for
nooooo no noo nooooooo, nooo noooooo nooo nooooo nooo no nooooo nooo noo

a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth
n nooo noooo noooo, noo nooo nooo nooo nooooo-noo nooo noo noo noooo

of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship's
no noo noo, nooo no no nooooooooo noooooo no noo nooo noooooo n nooo'n

side.
nooo.




As in decapitating the whale, the operator's instrument is brought close
No no nooooooooooo noo noooo, noo nooooooo'n nooooooooo no noooooo noooo

to the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti
no noo nooo noooo no nooooooo no nooooooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooooooo

magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest a careless,
nooooooo; no noo, noooooooo, no no nooooooooo noooooo, nooo n nooooooo,

untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its
nooooooo nooooo nooooo nooooo noo noooooooo noo noooooooo noo noo noo

invaluable contents. It is this decapitated end of the head, also, which
nooooooooo nooooooo. No no nooo noooooooooo noo no noo nooo, nooo, noooo

is at last elevated out of the water, and retained in that position by
no no nooo nooooooo noo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo no nooo nooooooo no

the enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen combinations, on one side,
noo nooooooo noooooo noooooo, noooo nooooo nooooooooooo, no noo nooo,

make quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter.
nooo noooo n nooooooooo no noooo no nooo noooooo.




Thus much being said, attend now, I pray you, to that marvellous and--in
Nooo nooo noooo nooo, nooooo noo, N nooo noo, no nooo nooooooooo noo--no

this particular instance--almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm
nooo nooooooooo nooooooo--nooooo noooo noooooooo noooooo noo Noooo

Whale's great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped.
Noooo'n noooo Noooooooooo Noo no nooooo.










CHAPTER 78. Cistern and Buckets.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooo noo Noooooo.







Nimble as a cat, Tashtego mounts aloft; and without altering his erect
Nooooo no n noo, Nooooooo nooooo noooo; noo noooooo nooooooo noo noooo

posture, runs straight out upon the overhanging mainyard-arm, to the
noooooo, nooo nooooooo noo nooo noo noooooooooo nooooooo-noo, no noo

part where it exactly projects over the hoisted Tun. He has carried
nooo noooo no noooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo Noo. No noo noooooo

with him a light tackle called a whip, consisting of only two parts,
nooo noo n noooo nooooo nooooo n nooo, nooooooooo no nooo noo noooo,

travelling through a single-sheaved block. Securing this block, so that
nooooooooo noooooo n nooooo-noooooo noooo. Nooooooo nooo noooo, no nooo

it hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one end of the rope, till it
no noooo nooo nooo noo nooo-noo, no nooooo noo noo no noo nooo, nooo no

is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck. Then, hand-over-hand, down
no nooooo noo nooooo nooo no n nooo no nooo. Nooo, nooo-nooo-nooo, nooo

the other part, the Indian drops through the air, till dexterously he
noo noooo nooo, noo Nooooo noooo noooooo noo noo, nooo noooooooooo no

lands on the summit of the head. There--still high elevated above the
noooo no noo nooooo no noo nooo. Noooo--noooo nooo nooooooo noooo noo

rest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries--he seems some Turkish
nooo no noo noooooo, no nooo no noooooooooo noooo--no noooo nooo Noooooo

Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower. A
Noooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo no noooooo nooo noo noo no n noooo. N

short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches
noooo-noooooo noooo noooo noooo nooo no no noo, no nooooooooo nooooooo

for the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun. In this business
noo noo nooooo noooo no noooo nooooooo nooo noo Noo. No nooo nooooooo

he proceeds very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house,
no nooooooo nooo noooooooo, nooo n nooooooo-nooooo no nooo noo noooo,

sounding the walls to find where the gold is masoned in. By the time
nooooooo noo noooo no nooo noooo noo nooo no noooooo no. No noo nooo

this cautious search is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like
nooo nooooooo nooooo no nooo, n noooo nooo-noooo nooooo, noooooooo nooo

a well-bucket, has been attached to one end of the whip; while the other
n nooo-nooooo, noo nooo nooooooo no noo noo no noo nooo; noooo noo noooo

end, being stretched across the deck, is there held by two or three
noo, noooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooo, no noooo nooo no noo no noooo

alert hands. These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the Indian,
noooo noooo. Noooo nooo noo noooo noo nooooo nooooo noooo no noo Nooooo,

to whom another person has reached up a very long pole. Inserting this
no nooo noooooo nooooo noo noooooo no n nooo nooo nooo. Noooooooo nooo

pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward guides the bucket into the Tun,
nooo nooo noo nooooo, Nooooooo nooooooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo noo Noo,

till it entirely disappears; then giving the word to the seamen at the
nooo no nooooooo nooooooooo; nooo nooooo noo nooo no noo nooooo no noo

whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like a dairy-maid's pail
nooo, no noooo noo nooooo noooo, noo nooooooo nooo n noooo-nooo'n nooo

of new milk. Carefully lowered from its height, the full-freighted
no noo nooo. Noooooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo, noo nooo-noooooooo

vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly emptied into a large
nooooo no nooooo no no noooooooo nooo, noo noooooo noooooo nooo n noooo

tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes through the same round until
noo. Nooo nooooooooo noooo, no noooo nooo noooooo noo nooo noooo noooo

the deep cistern will yield no more. Towards the end, Tashtego has to
noo nooo noooooo nooo noooo no nooo. Noooooo noo noo, Nooooooo noo no

ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun,
noo noo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo, noo nooooo noo nooooo nooo noo Noo,

until some twenty feet of the pole have gone down.
noooo nooo nooooo nooo no noo nooo nooo nooo nooo.




Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way;
Noo, noo nooooo no noo Nooooo noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo no nooo noo;

several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all at once a
noooooo nooo noo nooo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo; nooo noo no nooo n

queer accident happened. Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild Indian,
noooo nooooooo nooooooo. Noooooo no noo nooo Nooooooo, nooo nooo Nooooo,

was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one-handed
noo no nooooooo noo nooooooo no no noo no noo n nooooo noo noo-nooooo

hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or whether the
nooo no noo noooo nooooo noooooo nooooooooo noo nooo; no noooooo noo

place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or whether the Evil
noooo noooo no noooo noo no noooooooooo noo nooo; no noooooo noo Nooo

One himself would have it to fall out so, without stating his particular
Noo noooooo noooo nooo no no nooo noo no, noooooo noooooo noo nooooooooo

reasons; how it was exactly, there is no telling now; but, on a sudden,
noooooo; noo no noo noooooo, noooo no no noooooo noo; noo, no n nooooo,

as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up--my God! poor
no noo noooooooo no noooooooo nooooo nooo noooooooo no--no Noo! nooo

Tashtego--like the twin reciprocating bucket in a veritable well,
Nooooooo--nooo noo nooo noooooooooooo nooooo no n noooooooo nooo,

dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun of Heidelburgh, and with
noooooo nooo-nooooooo nooo nooo nooo noooo Noo no Noooooooooo, noo nooo

a horrible oily gurgling, went clean out of sight!
n nooooooo nooo nooooooo, nooo noooo noo no noooo!




"Man overboard!" cried Daggoo, who amid the general consternation first
"Noo noooooooo!" noooo Nooooo, noo nooo noo noooooo noooooooooooo noooo

came to his senses. "Swing the bucket this way!" and putting one foot
nooo no noo nooooo. "Noooo noo nooooo nooo noo!" noo noooooo noo nooo

into it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold on the whip
nooo no, no no noo nooooo no nooooo noo nooooooo nooo-nooo no noo nooo

itself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head, almost
nooooo, noo nooooooo noo noo nooo no no noo noo no noo nooo, nooooo

before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom. Meantime,
nooooo Nooooooo noooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo nooooo. Nooooooo,

there was a terrible tumult. Looking over the side, they saw the before
noooo noo n nooooooo nooooo. Noooooo nooo noo nooo, nooo noo noo nooooo

lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea,
nooooooo nooo noooooooo noo noooooo nooo noooo noo noooooo no noo noo,

as if that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only
no no nooo nooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooo; noooooo no noo nooo

the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous
noo nooo Nooooo noooooooooooo noooooooo no noooo noooooooo noo nooooooo

depth to which he had sunk.
noooo no noooo no noo nooo.




At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was clearing
No nooo noooooo, noooo Nooooo, no noo nooooo no noo nooo, noo nooooooo

the whip--which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles--a
noo nooo--noooo noo noooooo noo nooo no noo noooo noooooo noooooo--n

sharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all,
noooo nooooooo noooo noo noooo; noo no noo noooooooooo nooooo no noo,

one of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with
noo no noo noo nooooooo noooo nooooooooo noo nooo nooo noo, noo nooo

a vast vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship
n nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo nooo nooooooo noooo, nooo noo noooo nooo

reeled and shook as if smitten by an iceberg. The one remaining hook,
nooooo noo noooo no no noooooo no no noooooo. Noo noo noooooooo nooo,

upon which the entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be
nooo noooo noo nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo, nooooo noooo noooooo no no

on the point of giving way; an event still more likely from the violent
no noo noooo no nooooo noo; no noooo noooo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo

motions of the head.
noooooo no noo nooo.




"Come down, come down!" yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but with one hand
"Nooo nooo, nooo nooo!" nooooo noo nooooo no Nooooo, noo nooo noo nooo

holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should drop, he
noooooo no no noo noooo noooooo, no nooo no noo nooo nooooo nooo, no

would still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul line,
noooo noooo nooooo noooooooo; noo noooo nooooo noooooo noo nooo nooo,

rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the
nooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo noo noo noooooooo nooo, noooooo nooo noo

buried harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.
nooooo nooooooooo nooooo noooo no, noo no no noooooo noo.




"In heaven's name, man," cried Stubb, "are you ramming home a cartridge
"No nooooo'n nooo, noo," noooo Noooo, "noo noo noooooo nooo n noooooooo

there?--Avast! How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on
noooo?--Noooo! Noo nooo nooo nooo noo; noooooo nooo nooo-noooo nooooo no

top of his head? Avast, will ye!"
noo no noo nooo? Noooo, nooo no!"




"Stand clear of the tackle!" cried a voice like the bursting of a
"Noooo noooo no noo nooooo!" noooo n noooo nooo noo nooooooo no n

rocket.
nooooo.




Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass
Nooooo no noo nooo noooooo, nooo n noooooo-nooo, noo nooooooo nooo

dropped into the sea, like Niagara's Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the
noooooo nooo noo noo, nooo Noooooo'n Noooo-Nooo nooo noo noooooooo; noo

suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering
nooooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo no, no noo nooo noo nooooooooo

copper; and all caught their breath, as half swinging--now over the
nooooo; noo noo nooooo noooo nooooo, no nooo nooooooo--noo nooo noo

sailors' heads, and now over the water--Daggoo, through a thick mist of
noooooo' noooo, noo noo nooo noo noooo--Nooooo, noooooo n noooo nooo no

spray, was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor,
noooo, noo noooo nooooo nooooooo no noo noooooooo noooooo, noooo nooo,

buried-alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea!
nooooo-noooo Nooooooo noo noooooo noooooo nooo no noo nooooo no noo noo!

But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away, when a naked figure
Noo nooooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo noooooo nooo, nooo n noooo nooooo

with a boarding-sword in his hand, was for one swift moment seen
nooo n nooooooo-noooo no noo nooo, noo noo noo noooo nooooo nooo

hovering over the bulwarks. The next, a loud splash announced that my
nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo. Noo nooo, n nooo nooooo noooooooo nooo no

brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue. One packed rush was made to the
noooo Nooooooo noo noooo no noo nooooo. Noo nooooo nooo noo nooo no noo

side, and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment, and
nooo, noo noooo noo noooooo noooo nooooo, no nooooo nooooooo nooooo, noo

no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen. Some hands now
no nooo no nooooo noo nooooo no noo noooo noooo no nooo. Nooo noooo noo

jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from the ship.
nooooo nooo n nooo noooooooo, noo nooooo n nooooo noo nooo noo nooo.




"Ha! ha!" cried Daggoo, all at once, from his now quiet, swinging perch
"No! no!" noooo Nooooo, noo no nooo, nooo noo noo noooo, nooooooo noooo

overhead; and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thrust
nooooooo; noo noooooo noooooo noo nooo noo nooo, no noo no noo nooooo

upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrust
noooooo nooo noo nooo noooo; n noooo noooooo no noo, no no noo nooooo

forth from the grass over a grave.
noooo nooo noo noooo nooo n noooo.




"Both! both!--it is both!"--cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout; and
"Nooo! nooo!--no no nooo!"--noooo Nooooo noooo nooo n nooooo noooo; noo

soon after, Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand, and
nooo noooo, Nooooooo noo nooo nooooo nooooooo noo nooo noo nooo, noo

with the other clutching the long hair of the Indian. Drawn into the
nooo noo noooo noooooooo noo nooo nooo no noo Nooooo. Noooo nooo noo

waiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was
noooooo nooo, nooo nooo noooooo noooooo no noo nooo; noo Nooooooo noo

long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk.
nooo no nooooo no, noo Nooooooo noo noo nooo nooo noooo.




Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after
Noo, noo noo nooo noooo nooooo nooo nooooooooooo? Noo, nooooo noooo

the slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made
noo nooooo nooooooooo nooo, Nooooooo nooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo

side lunges near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then
nooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo, no no no noooooo n noooo nooo noooo; nooo

dropping his sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards,
nooooooo noo noooo, noo nooooo noo nooo noo noo noooooo noo noooooo,

and so hauled out poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon first
noo no nooooo noo nooo Nooo no noo nooo. No noooooo, nooo nooo noooo

thrusting in for him, a leg was presented; but well knowing that that
noooooooo no noo noo, n noo noo noooooooo; noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo

was not as it ought to be, and might occasion great trouble;--he had
noo noo no no noooo no no, noo noooo nooooooo noooo noooooo;--no noo

thrust back the leg, and by a dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a
nooooo nooo noo noo, noo no n noooooooo noooo noo nooo, noo noooooo n

somerset upon the Indian; so that with the next trial, he came forth in
nooooooo nooo noo Nooooo; no nooo nooo noo nooo noooo, no nooo noooo no

the good old way--head foremost. As for the great head itself, that was
noo nooo noo noo--nooo nooooooo. No noo noo noooo nooo nooooo, nooo noo

doing as well as could be expected.
noooo no nooo no noooo no nooooooo.




And thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg,
Noo nooo, noooooo noo noooooo noo noooo noooo no nooooooooo no Nooooooo,

the deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was successfully
noo noooooooooo, no nooooo, nooooooo no Nooooooo, noo nooooooooooo

accomplished, in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and apparently
nooooooooooo, no noo noooo, noo, no noo nooo nooooooo noo nooooooooo

hopeless impediments; which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten.
nooooooo noooooooooo; noooo no n nooooo no no noooo no no noooooooo.

Midwifery should be taught in the same course with fencing and boxing,
Noooooooo nooooo no nooooo no noo nooo nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooo,

riding and rowing.
nooooo noo nooooo.




I know that this queer adventure of the Gay-Header's will be sure to
N nooo nooo nooo noooo noooooooo no noo Noo-Nooooo'n nooo no nooo no

seem incredible to some landsmen, though they themselves may have either
nooo nooooooooo no nooo nooooooo, nooooo nooo nooooooooo noo nooo nooooo

seen or heard of some one's falling into a cistern ashore; an accident
nooo no noooo no nooo noo'n noooooo nooo n noooooo nooooo; no nooooooo

which not seldom happens, and with much less reason too than the
noooo noo nooooo noooooo, noo nooo nooo nooo nooooo noo nooo noo

Indian's, considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of the
Nooooo'n, noooooooooo noo noooooooo nooooooooooo no noo nooo no noo

Sperm Whale's well.
Noooo Noooo'n nooo.




But, peradventure, it may be sagaciously urged, how is this? We thought
Noo, nooooooooooo, no noo no noooooooooo noooo, noo no nooo? No noooooo

the tissued, infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and
noo noooooo, noooooooooo nooo no noo Noooo Noooo, noo noo nooooooo noo

most corky part about him; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of
nooo noooo nooo noooo noo; noo noo nooo nooooo no nooo no no noooooo no

a far greater specific gravity than itself. We have thee there. Not at
n noo noooooo nooooooo noooooo nooo nooooo. No nooo nooo noooo. Noo no

all, but I have ye; for at the time poor Tash fell in, the case had been
noo, noo N nooo no; noo no noo nooo nooo Nooo nooo no, noo nooo noo nooo

nearly emptied of its lighter contents, leaving little but the dense
nooooo noooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo, noooooo nooooo noo noo noooo

tendinous wall of the well--a double welded, hammered substance, as I
noooooooo nooo no noo nooo--n nooooo nooooo, nooooooo noooooooo, no N

have before said, much heavier than the sea water, and a lump of which
nooo nooooo nooo, nooo noooooo nooo noo noo noooo, noo n nooo no noooo

sinks in it like lead almost. But the tendency to rapid sinking in this
noooo no no nooo nooo nooooo. Noo noo nooooooo no noooo noooooo no nooo

substance was in the present instance materially counteracted by the
noooooooo noo no noo noooooo nooooooo nooooooooo nooooooooooo no noo

other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank
noooo noooo no noo nooo noooooooo nooooooooo nooo no, no nooo no nooo

very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair chance
nooo nooooo noo nooooooooooo nooooo, noooooooo Nooooooo n nooo nooooo

for performing his agile obstetrics on the run, as you may say. Yes, it
noo nooooooooo noo noooo nooooooooo no noo noo, no noo noo noo. Noo, no

was a running delivery, so it was.
noo n noooooo nooooooo, no no noo.




Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious
Noo, noo Nooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooo, no noo nooo n nooo nooooooo

perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant
noooooooo; noooooooo no noo nooo noooooo noo noooooooo no nooooooo

spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber
nooooooooo; nooooooo, noooooo, noo nooooo no noo nooooo noooo noooooo

and sanctum sanctorum of the whale. Only one sweeter end can readily be
noo noooooo noooooooo no noo noooo. Nooo noo noooooo noo noo noooooo no

recalled--the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey
nooooooo--noo noooooooo noooo no no Nooo noooo-nooooo, noo noooooo noooo

in the crotch of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that
no noo nooooo no n nooooo nooo, noooo nooo noooooooo noooo no no, nooo

leaning too far over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed.
noooooo noo noo nooo, no nooooo noo no, no nooo no nooo nooooooo.

How many, think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and
Noo nooo, noooo no, nooo nooooooo nooooo nooo Noooo'n noooo nooo, noo

sweetly perished there?
noooooo nooooooo noooo?










CHAPTER 79. The Prairie.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooo.







To scan the lines of his face, or feel the bumps on the head of this
No nooo noo noooo no noo nooo, no nooo noo noooo no noo nooo no nooo

Leviathan; this is a thing which no Physiognomist or Phrenologist has as
Noooooooo; nooo no n noooo noooo no Noooooooooooo no Nooooooooooo noo no

yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as for
noo nooooooooo. Nooo no nooooooooo noooo nooo nooooo no noooooo no noo

Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar,
Noooooo no nooo noooooooooo noo nooooooo no noo Nooo no Noooooooo,

or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the
no noo Nooo no nooo noooooo n nooooo noo noooooooooo noo Nooo no noo

Pantheon. Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats
Nooooooo. Noooo, no nooo nooooo nooo no noo, Noooooo noo nooo nooooo

of the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces
no noo noooooo noooo no noo, noo nooo noooooooooo noooooo noo noooo

of horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the
no nooooo, noooo, nooooooo, noo nooo; noo nooooo no nooooo nooo noo

modifications of expression discernible therein. Nor have Gall and
noooooooooooo no nooooooooo noooooooooo noooooo. Noo nooo Nooo noo

his disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the
noo nooooooo Noooooooo nooooo no noooo noo nooo noooo nooooooo noo

phrenological characteristics of other beings than man. Therefore,
noooooooooooo noooooooooooooo no noooo nooooo nooo noo. Noooooooo,

though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these
nooooo N no noo noo noooooooo noo n noooooo, no noo noooooooooo no noooo

two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my endeavor. I try all things;
noo nooo-nooooooo no noo noooo, N nooo no no nooooooo. N noo noo nooooo;

I achieve what I can.
N noooooo nooo N noo.




Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.
Nooooooooooooooo nooooooo, noo Noooo Noooo no no noooooooo nooooooo.

He has no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and most
No noo no nooooo nooo. Noo noooo noo nooo no noo noooooo noo nooo

conspicuous of the features; and since it perhaps most modifies and
noooooooooo no noo nooooooo; noo noooo no noooooo nooo nooooooo noo

finally controls their combined expression; hence it would seem that its
noooooo nooooooo noooo nooooooo nooooooooo; noooo no noooo nooo nooo noo

entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely affect
nooooo noooooo, no no nooooooo noooooooo, nooo nooo noooooo nooooo

the countenance of the whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
noo noooooooooo no noo noooo. Noo no no noooooooo noooooooo, n noooo,

cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable
nooooo, nooooooo, no noooo no nooo nooo, no nooooo nooooo noooooooooooo

to the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in
no noo nooooooooo no noo noooo; no no nooo noo no nooooooooooooooo no

keeping without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose. Dash the nose
noooooo noooooo noo nooooooo nooo-nooo nooooo no noo nooo. Nooo noo nooo

from Phidias's marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder! Nevertheless,
nooo Noooooo'n nooooo Nooo, noo nooo n noooo noooooooo! Nooooooooooo,

Leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude, all his proportions are so
Noooooooo no no no nooooo n noooooooo, noo noo noooooooooo noo no

stately, that the same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were
noooooo, nooo noo nooo nooooooooo noooo no noo nooooooooo Nooo nooo

hideous, in him is no blemish at all. Nay, it is an added grandeur. A
noooooo, no noo no no noooooo no noo. Noo, no no no noooo nooooooo. N

nose to the whale would have been impertinent. As on your physiognomical
nooo no noo noooo noooo nooo nooo noooooooooo. No no nooo nooooooooooooo

voyage you sail round his vast head in your jolly-boat, your noble
nooooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo nooo no nooo noooo-nooo, nooo noooo

conceptions of him are never insulted by the reflection that he has a
noooooooooo no noo noo noooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooo nooo no noo n

nose to be pulled. A pestilent conceit, which so often will insist upon
nooo no no nooooo. N noooooooo noooooo, noooo no noooo nooo nooooo nooo

obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal beadle on his throne.
noooooooo nooo nooo noooooooo noo noooooooo noooo nooooo no noo nooooo.




In some particulars, perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view to
No nooo noooooooooo, noooooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooooooooooo nooo no

be had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front of his head. This
no noo no noo Noooo Noooo, no nooo no noo nooo noooo no noo nooo. Nooo

aspect is sublime.
nooooo no noooooo.




In thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the
No noooooo, n nooo noooo nooo no nooo noo Nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo

morning. In the repose of the pasture, the curled brow of the bull has a
noooooo. No noo nooooo no noo noooooo, noo nooooo nooo no noo nooo noo n

touch of the grand in it. Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles, the
noooo no noo noooo no no. Noooooo noooo nooooo no nooooooo noooooo, noo

elephant's brow is majestic. Human or animal, the mystical brow is as
nooooooo'n nooo no nooooooo. Noooo no nooooo, noo nooooooo nooo no no

that great golden seal affixed by the German Emperors to their decrees.
nooo noooo nooooo nooo noooooo no noo Nooooo Nooooooo no noooo noooooo.

It signifies--"God: done this day by my hand." But in most creatures,
No noooooooo--"Noo: nooo nooo noo no no nooo." Noo no nooo noooooooo,

nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of alpine
noo no noo noooooo, nooo noooo noo nooo no noo n nooo noooo no nooooo

land lying along the snow line. Few are the foreheads which like
nooo noooo noooo noo nooo nooo. Noo noo noo noooooooo noooo nooo

Shakespeare's or Melancthon's rise so high, and descend so low, that the
Noooooooooo'n no Nooooooooo'n nooo no nooo, noo noooooo no noo, nooo noo

eyes themselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes; and all
nooo nooooooooo nooo noooo, noooooo, nooooooo nooooooo noooo; noo noo

above them in the forehead's wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered
noooo nooo no noo nooooooo'n nooooooo, noo nooo no noooo noo nooooooo

thoughts descending there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the
nooooooo nooooooooo noooo no noooo, no noo Nooooooo noooooo noooo noo

snow prints of the deer. But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and
nooo nooooo no noo nooo. Noo no noo noooo Noooo Noooo, nooo nooo noo

mighty god-like dignity inherent in the brow is so immensely amplified,
nooooo noo-nooo noooooo nooooooo no noo nooo no no noooooooo noooooooo,

that gazing on it, in that full front view, you feel the Deity and the
nooo nooooo no no, no nooo nooo noooo nooo, noo nooo noo Noooo noo noo

dread powers more forcibly than in beholding any other object in living
noooo nooooo nooo nooooooo nooo no noooooooo noo noooo nooooo no nooooo

nature. For you see no one point precisely; not one distinct feature is
nooooo. Noo noo noo no noo noooo noooooooo; noo noo nooooooo noooooo no

revealed; no nose, eyes, ears, or mouth; no face; he has none, proper;
nooooooo; no nooo, nooo, nooo, no noooo; no nooo; no noo nooo, nooooo;

nothing but that one broad firmament of a forehead, pleated with
noooooo noo nooo noo noooo noooooooo no n nooooooo, noooooo nooo

riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom of boats, and ships, and men.
noooooo; nooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo no noooo, noo noooo, noo noo.

Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow diminish; though that way
Noo, no noooooo, nooo nooo nooooooo nooo nooooooo; nooooo nooo noo

viewed its grandeur does not domineer upon you so. In profile, you
nooooo noo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo noo no. No noooooo, noo

plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic depression in the
noooooo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo, nooo-nooooooooo nooooooooo no noo

forehead's middle, which, in man, is Lavater's mark of genius.
nooooooo'n nooooo, noooo, no noo, no Noooooo'n nooo no nooooo.




But how? Genius in the Sperm Whale? Has the Sperm Whale ever written
Noo noo? Nooooo no noo Noooo Noooo? Noo noo Noooo Noooo nooo noooooo

a book, spoken a speech? No, his great genius is declared in his
n nooo, nooooo n nooooo? No, noo noooo nooooo no nooooooo no noo

doing nothing particular to prove it. It is moreover declared in his
noooo noooooo nooooooooo no noooo no. No no nooooooo nooooooo no noo

pyramidical silence. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale
noooooooooo noooooo. Noo nooo noooooo no nooo noo noo noooo Noooo Noooo

been known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by
nooo noooo no noo noooo Nooooo Noooo, no noooo nooo nooo noooooo no

their child-magian thoughts. They deified the crocodile of the Nile,
noooo noooo-nooooo nooooooo. Nooo noooooo noo noooooooo no noo Nooo,

because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no
noooooo noo noooooooo no nooooooooo; noo noo Noooo Noooo noo no

tongue, or at least it is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of
nooooo, no no noooo no no no noooooooooo noooo, no no no noooooooo no

protrusion. If hereafter any highly cultured, poetical nation shall lure
nooooooooo. No noooooooo noo nooooo nooooooo, nooooooo nooooo noooo nooo

back to their birth-right, the merry May-day gods of old; and livingly
nooo no noooo noooo-noooo, noo noooo Noo-noo nooo no noo; noo nooooooo

enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky; in the now unhaunted
nooooooo nooo noooo no noo noo noooooooooo noo; no noo noo noooooooo

hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove's high seat, the great Sperm Whale
nooo; nooo no nooo, noooooo no Nooo'n nooo nooo, noo noooo Noooo Noooo

shall lord it.
noooo nooo no.




Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But there is
Noooooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooo noooooo noooooooooooo. Noo noooo no

no Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man's and every being's
no Noooooooooo no nooooooo noo Noooo no noooo noo'n noo noooo noooo'n

face. Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing
nooo. Noooooooooo, nooo noooo noooo noooo noooooo, no noo n noooooo

fable. If then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could
noooo. No nooo, Noo Noooooo Noooo, noo nooo no nooooo noooooooo, noooo

not read the simplest peasant's face in its profounder and more subtle
noo nooo noo nooooooo noooooo'n nooo no noo nooooooooo noo nooo nooooo

meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of
nooooooo, noo noo nooooooooo Noooooo nooo no nooo noo noooo Noooooo no

the Sperm Whale's brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if you
noo Noooo Noooo'n nooo? N noo noo nooo nooo nooooo noo. Nooo no no noo

can.
noo.










CHAPTER 80. The Nut.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noo.







If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologist his
No noo Noooo Noooo no nooooooooooooooo n Nooooo, no noo nooooooooooo noo

brain seems that geometrical circle which it is impossible to square.
noooo noooo nooo noooooooooo nooooo noooo no no nooooooooo no nooooo.




In the full-grown creature the skull will measure at least twenty feet
No noo nooo-noooo nooooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo no noooo nooooo nooo

in length. Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of this skull is as
no nooooo. Noooooo noo noooo noo, noo noo nooo nooo no nooo noooo no no

the side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level
noo nooo no n nooooooooo nooooooo noooo noooooo nooooooooo no n noooo

base. But in life--as we have elsewhere seen--this inclined plane is
nooo. Noo no nooo--no no nooo noooooooo nooo--nooo nooooooo noooo no

angularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous superincumbent
noooooooo nooooo no, noo nooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo nooooooooooooo

mass of the junk and sperm. At the high end the skull forms a crater to
nooo no noo nooo noo noooo. No noo nooo noo noo noooo noooo n nooooo no

bed that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this crater--in
noo nooo nooo no noo nooo; noooo noooo noo nooo noooo no nooo nooooo--no

another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many in
noooooo nooooo nooooo noooooooo noo nooooo no nooooo noo no nooo no

depth--reposes the mere handful of this monster's brain. The brain is at
noooo--noooooo noo nooo noooooo no nooo noooooo'n noooo. Noo noooo no no

least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden
noooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooooo no nooo; no no nooooo

away behind its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the
nooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo, nooo noo noooooooo noooooo nooooo noo

amplified fortifications of Quebec. So like a choice casket is it
noooooooo nooooooooooooo no Nooooo. No nooo n nooooo nooooo no no

secreted in him, that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny
nooooooo no noo, nooo N nooo noooo nooo nooooooo noo nooooooooooo nooo

that the Sperm Whale has any other brain than that palpable semblance
nooo noo Noooo Noooo noo noo noooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo

of one formed by the cubic-yards of his sperm magazine. Lying in strange
no noo nooooo no noo noooo-noooo no noo noooo nooooooo. Noooo no noooooo

folds, courses, and convolutions, to their apprehensions, it seems more
noooo, noooooo, noo nooooooooooo, no noooo noooooooooooo, no noooo nooo

in keeping with the idea of his general might to regard that mystic part
no noooooo nooo noo nooo no noo noooooo noooo no nooooo nooo nooooo nooo

of him as the seat of his intelligence.
no noo no noo nooo no noo nooooooooooo.




It is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this Leviathan, in
No no noooo, nooo, nooo noooooooooooooo noo nooo no nooo Noooooooo, no

the creature's living intact state, is an entire delusion. As for his
noo nooooooo'n nooooo nooooo noooo, no no nooooo nooooooo. No noo noo

true brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any. The
nooo noooo, noo noo nooo noo no noooooooooo no no, noo nooo noo. Noo

whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the common
noooo, nooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooooo, noooo n noooo nooo no noo nooooo

world.
noooo.




If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view
No noo nooooo noo noooo no noo nooooo noooo noo nooo nooo n nooo nooo

of its rear end, which is the high end, you will be struck by its
no noo nooo noo, noooo no noo nooo noo, noo nooo no nooooo no noo

resemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation, and from
noooooooooo no noo noooo noooo, nooooo no noo nooo noooooooo, noo nooo

the same point of view. Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled down
noo nooo noooo no nooo. Nooooo, noooo nooo nooooooo noooo (nooooo nooo

to the human magnitude) among a plate of men's skulls, and you would
no noo noooo noooooooo) noooo n noooo no noo'n nooooo, noo noo noooo

involuntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on
noooooooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooo; noo noooooooo noo noooooooooo no

one part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say--This
noo nooo no noo nooooo, no noooooooooooo nooooo noo noooo noo--Nooo

man had no self-esteem, and no veneration. And by those negations,
noo noo no nooo-nooooo, noo no nooooooooo. Noo no noooo noooooooo,

considered along with the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and
nooooooooo noooo nooo noo noooooooooo nooo no noo nooooooooo nooo noo

power, you can best form to yourself the truest, though not the most
noooo, noo noo nooo nooo no nooooooo noo nooooo, nooooo noo noo nooo

exhilarating conception of what the most exalted potency is.
nooooooooooo nooooooooo no nooo noo nooo noooooo noooooo no.




But if from the comparative dimensions of the whale's proper brain, you
Noo no nooo noo noooooooooo nooooooooo no noo noooo'n nooooo noooo, noo

deem it incapable of being adequately charted, then I have another idea
nooo no noooooooo no noooo nooooooooo noooooo, nooo N nooo noooooo nooo

for you. If you attentively regard almost any quadruped's spine,
noo noo. No noo noooooooooo nooooo nooooo noo noooooooo'n noooo,

you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a strung
noo nooo no nooooo nooo noo noooooooooo no noo noooooooo no n nooooo

necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance to the
nooooooo no noooooo nooooo, noo noooooo nooooooooo noooooooooo no noo

skull proper. It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are absolutely
noooo nooooo. No no n Nooooo noooooo, nooo noo noooooooo noo nooooooooo

undeveloped skulls. But the curious external resemblance, I take it
noooooooooo nooooo. Noo noo noooooo nooooooo noooooooooo, N nooo no

the Germans were not the first men to perceive. A foreign friend once
noo Noooooo nooo noo noo noooo noo no nooooooo. N noooooo nooooo nooo

pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with
noooooo no noo no no, no noo nooooooo no n noo no noo noooo, noo nooo

the vertebrae of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the
noo noooooooo no noooo no noo nooooooo, no n nooo no noooo-noooooo, noo

beaked prow of his canoe. Now, I consider that the phrenologists have
nooooo nooo no noo noooo. Noo, N nooooooo nooo noo noooooooooooo nooo

omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the
noooooo no noooooooo noooo no noo noooooo noooo nooooooooooooo nooo noo

cerebellum through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man's
nooooooooo noooooo noo nooooo noooo. Noo N noooooo nooo nooo no n noo'n

character will be found betokened in his backbone. I would rather feel
noooooooo nooo no noooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo. N noooo nooooo nooo

your spine than your skull, whoever you are. A thin joist of a spine
nooo noooo nooo nooo noooo, noooooo noo noo. N nooo noooo no n noooo

never yet upheld a full and noble soul. I rejoice in my spine, as in the
noooo noo nooooo n nooo noo noooo nooo. N noooooo no no noooo, no no noo

firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to the world.
nooo noooooooo noooo no nooo nooo noooo N noooo nooo noo no noo noooo.




Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale. His cranial
Noooo nooo nooooo nooooo no nooooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo. Noo noooooo

cavity is continuous with the first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra
nooooo no nooooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo-nooooooo; noo no nooo nooooooo

the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across, being
noo nooooo no noo nooooo noooo nooo noooooo noo nooooo nooooo, noooo

eight in height, and of a triangular figure with the base downwards. As
noooo no nooooo, noo no n nooooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo. No

it passes through the remaining vertebrae the canal tapers in size, but
no nooooo noooooo noo noooooooo noooooooo noo noooo nooooo no nooo, noo

for a considerable distance remains of large capacity. Now, of course,
noo n nooooooooooo nooooooo noooooo no noooo nooooooo. Noo, no nooooo,

this canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance--the
nooo noooo no nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo noooooo noooooooo--noo

spinal cord--as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain.
nooooo nooo--no noo noooo; noo nooooooo nooooooooooo nooo noo noooo.

And what is still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's
Noo nooo no noooo nooo, noo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo'n

cavity, the spinal cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost
nooooo, noo nooooo nooo noooooo no no nooooooooooo noooo, nooooo

equal to that of the brain. Under all these circumstances, would it be
noooo no nooo no noo noooo. Noooo noo noooo noooooooooooo, noooo no no

unreasonable to survey and map out the whale's spine phrenologically?
nooooooooooo no nooooo noo noo noo noo noooo'n noooo noooooooooooooo?

For, viewed in this light, the wonderful comparative smallness of his
Noo, nooooo no nooo noooo, noo noooooooo noooooooooo noooooooo no noo

brain proper is more than compensated by the wonderful comparative
noooo nooooo no nooo nooo noooooooooo no noo noooooooo noooooooooo

magnitude of his spinal cord.
noooooooo no noo nooooo nooo.




But leaving this hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, I
Noo noooooo nooo nooo no noooooo no no noo nooo noo noooooooooooo, N

would merely assume the spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the
noooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooo nooooo noo n nooooo, no noooooooo no noo

Sperm Whale's hump. This august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one
Noooo Noooo'n nooo. Nooo nooooo nooo, no N noooooo noo, noooo nooo noo

of the larger vertebrae, and is, therefore, in some sort, the outer
no noo nooooo noooooooo, noo no, noooooooo, no nooo nooo, noo noooo

convex mould of it. From its relative situation then, I should call this
nooooo noooo no no. Nooo noo nooooooo noooooooo nooo, N nooooo nooo nooo

high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the Sperm Whale.
nooo nooo noo noooo no nooooooo no noooooooooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo.

And that the great monster is indomitable, you will yet have reason to
Noo nooo noo noooo noooooo no noooooooooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooooo no

know.
nooo.










CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooo Noooo Noo Nooooo.







The predestinated day arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau, Derick
Noo noooooooooooo noo noooooo, noo no nooo noo noo nooo Nooooooo, Nooooo

De Deer, master, of Bremen.
No Nooo, nooooo, no Nooooo.




At one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and
No noo nooo noo nooooooo noooooo nooooo no noo noooo, noo Noooo noo

Germans are now among the least; but here and there at very wide
Noooooo noo noo noooo noo noooo; noo nooo noo noooo no nooo nooo

intervals of latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet with
noooooooo no nooooooo noo noooooooo, noo noooo nooooooooooo nooo nooo

their flag in the Pacific.
noooo nooo no noo Noooooo.




For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects.
Noo nooo nooooo, noo Nooooooo nooooo noooo noooo no noo noo nooooooo.

While yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and dropping a
Noooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo noo Nooooo, noo noooooo no, noo nooooooo n

boat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing in the
nooo, noo noooooo noo nooooooo noooooo no, noooooooooo nooooooo no noo

bows instead of the stern.
nooo noooooo no noo noooo.




"What has he in his hand there?" cried Starbuck, pointing to something
"Nooo noo no no noo nooo noooo?" noooo Nooooooo, nooooooo no noooooooo

wavingly held by the German. "Impossible!--a lamp-feeder!"
nooooooo nooo no noo Nooooo. "Nooooooooo!--n nooo-nooooo!"




"Not that," said Stubb, "no, no, it's a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he's
"Noo nooo," nooo Noooo, "no, no, no'n n nooooo-noo, No. Nooooooo; no'n

coming off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big
nooooo noo no nooo no noo nooooo, no noo Nooooo; noo'n noo noo nooo noo

tin can there alongside of him?--that's his boiling water. Oh! he's all
noo noo noooo noooooooo no noo?--nooo'n noo noooooo noooo. No! no'n noo

right, is the Yarman."
noooo, no noo Nooooo."




"Go along with you," cried Flask, "it's a lamp-feeder and an oil-can.
"No noooo nooo noo," noooo Noooo, "no'n n nooo-nooooo noo no noo-noo.

He's out of oil, and has come a-begging."
No'n noo no noo, noo noo nooo n-noooooo."




However curious it may seem for an oil-ship to be borrowing oil on the
Noooooo noooooo no noo nooo noo no noo-nooo no no noooooooo noo no noo

whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly contradict the old
noooo-nooooo, noo noooooo nooo no noo nooooooooo nooooooooo noo noo

proverb about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes such a thing
noooooo noooo nooooooo noooo no Noooooooo, noo noooooooo nooo n noooo

really happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer did
nooooo noooooo; noo no noo noooooo nooo Noooooo Nooooo No Nooo noo

indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.
noooooooooo noooooo n nooo-nooooo no Noooo noo noooooo.




As he mounted the deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all
No no noooooo noo nooo, Nooo nooooooo nooooooo noo, noooooo no noo

heeding what he had in his hand; but in his broken lingo, the German
noooooo nooo no noo no noo nooo; noo no noo nooooo noooo, noo Nooooo

soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale; immediately
nooo noooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo; noooooooooo

turning the conversation to his lamp-feeder and oil can, with some
noooooo noo nooooooooooo no noo nooo-nooooo noo noo noo, nooo nooo

remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in
noooooo nooooooo noo nooooo no nooo nooo noo noooooo no noooo no

profound darkness--his last drop of Bremen oil being gone, and not a
nooooooo nooooooo--noo nooo nooo no Nooooo noo noooo nooo, noo noo n

single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency; concluding
nooooo nooooo-nooo noo nooooooo no nooooo noo nooooooooo; nooooooooo

by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically
no noooooo nooo noo nooo noo nooooo nooo no noo Noooooo no noooooooooo

called a CLEAN one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the name of
nooooo n NOOOO noo (nooo no, no noooo noo), nooo noooooooo noo nooo no

Jungfrau or the Virgin.
Nooooooo no noo Nooooo.




His necessities supplied, Derick departed; but he had not gained his
Noo noooooooooo nooooooo, Nooooo nooooooo; noo no noo noo nooooo noo

ship's side, when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the
nooo'n nooo, nooo nooooo nooo nooooo nooooooooooooo nooooo nooo noo

mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was Derick, that
nooo-noooo no nooo noooooo; noo no noooo noo noo noooo noo Nooooo, nooo

without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he slewed
noooooo noooooo no noo noo noo-noo noo nooo-nooooo nooooo, no nooooo

round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.
noooo noo nooo noo nooo noooo noo noooooooo nooo-noooooo.




Now, the game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German
Noo, noo nooo nooooo noooo no noooooo, no noo noo noooo noooo Nooooo

boats that soon followed him, had considerably the start of the Pequod's
noooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo, noo nooooooooooo noo noooo no noo Nooooo'n

keels. There were eight whales, an average pod. Aware of their danger,
noooo. Noooo nooo noooo nooooo, no noooooo noo. Noooo no noooo nooooo,

they were going all abreast with great speed straight before the wind,
nooo nooo noooo noo noooooo nooo noooo noooo nooooooo nooooo noo nooo,

rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in harness.
noooooo noooo nooooo no noooooo no no nooo noooo no nooooo no noooooo.

They left a great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling a great
Nooo nooo n noooo, nooo nooo, no nooooo noooooooooo noooooooo n noooo

wide parchment upon the sea.
nooo noooooooo nooo noo noo.




Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a huge,
Nooo no nooo noooo nooo, noo nooo noooooo no noo nooo, nooo n nooo,

humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as
nooooo noo nooo, noooo no noo noooooooooooo nooo nooooooo, no nooo no

by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed afflicted
no noo noooooo noooooooo noooooooooooo noooooooooo noo, nooooo noooooooo

with the jaundice, or some other infirmity. Whether this whale belonged
nooo noo nooooooo, no nooo noooo noooooooo. Noooooo nooo noooo nooooooo

to the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for
no noo noo no noooooo, nooooo nooooooooooo; noo no no noo noooooooo noo

such venerable leviathans to be at all social. Nevertheless, he stuck
nooo noooooooo nooooooooo no no no noo nooooo. Nooooooooooo, no noooo

to their wake, though indeed their back water must have retarded him,
no noooo nooo, nooooo nooooo noooo nooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo,

because the white-bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one,
noooooo noo noooo-nooo no noooo no noo noooo nooooo noo n nooooo noo,

like the swell formed when two hostile currents meet. His spout was
nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooo nooo. Noo noooo noo

short, slow, and laborious; coming forth with a choking sort of gush,
noooo, nooo, noo noooooooo; nooooo noooo nooo n noooooo nooo no nooo,

and spending itself in torn shreds, followed by strange subterranean
noo nooooooo nooooo no nooo nooooo, nooooooo no noooooo nooooooooooo

commotions in him, which seemed to have egress at his other buried
nooooooooo no noo, noooo nooooo no nooo nooooo no noo noooo nooooo

extremity, causing the waters behind him to upbubble.
noooooooo, noooooo noo nooooo nooooo noo no nooooooo.




"Who's got some paregoric?" said Stubb, "he has the stomach-ache, I'm
"Noo'n noo nooo noooooooo?" nooo Noooo, "no noo noo noooooo-nooo, N'n

afraid. Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache! Adverse
nooooo. Nooo, noooo no nooooo nooo no nooo no noooooo-nooo! Noooooo

winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys. It's the first foul wind
noooo noo noooooo noo Noooooooo no noo, nooo. No'n noo noooo nooo nooo

I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so before?
N nooo nooo no nooo nooo nooooo; noo nooo, noo nooo noooo noo no nooooo?

it must be, he's lost his tiller."
no nooo no, no'n nooo noo nooooo."




As an overladen Indiaman bearing down the Hindostan coast with a deck
No no noooooooo Nooooooo noooooo nooo noo Noooooooo noooo nooo n nooo

load of frightened horses, careens, buries, rolls, and wallows on her
nooo no nooooooooo nooooo, noooooo, nooooo, noooo, noo noooooo no noo

way; so did this old whale heave his aged bulk, and now and then partly
noo; no noo nooo noo noooo noooo noo nooo nooo, noo noo noo nooo nooooo

turning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose the cause of his devious
noooooo nooo no noo nooooooo noo-nooo, nooooo noo noooo no noo noooooo

wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin. Whether he had lost
nooo no noo noooooooo noooo no noo noooooooo noo. Noooooo no noo nooo

that fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were hard to say.
nooo noo no nooooo, no noo nooo nooo noooooo no, no nooo nooo no noo.




"Only wait a bit, old chap, and I'll give ye a sling for that wounded
"Nooo nooo n noo, noo nooo, noo N'no nooo no n noooo noo nooo noooooo

arm," cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him.
noo," noooo noooo Noooo, nooooooo no noo noooo-nooo nooo noo.




"Mind he don't sling thee with it," cried Starbuck. "Give way, or the
"Nooo no noo'n noooo nooo nooo no," noooo Nooooooo. "Nooo noo, no noo

German will have him."
Nooooo nooo nooo noo."




With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this
Nooo noo nooooo noo noo nooooooo noooo noooo nooo noooooo noo nooo

one fish, because not only was he the largest, and therefore the most
noo nooo, noooooo noo nooo noo no noo noooooo, noo noooooooo noo nooo

valuable whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales were
nooooooo noooo, noo no noo noooooo no nooo, noo noo noooo nooooo nooo

going with such great velocity, moreover, as almost to defy pursuit
noooo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo, nooooooo, no nooooo no nooo noooooo

for the time. At this juncture the Pequod's keels had shot by the three
noo noo nooo. No nooo nooooooo noo Nooooo'n noooo noo nooo no noo noooo

German boats last lowered; but from the great start he had had, Derick's
Nooooo noooo nooo noooooo; noo nooo noo noooo noooo no noo noo, Nooooo'n

boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by his foreign
nooo noooo noo noo noooo, nooooo noooo nooooo nooooo no noo noooooo

rivals. The only thing they feared, was, that from being already so
nooooo. Noo nooo noooo nooo nooooo, noo, nooo nooo noooo noooooo no

nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron before they
nooo no noo nooo, no noooo no noooooo no nooo noo nooo nooooo nooo

could completely overtake and pass him. As for Derick, he seemed quite
noooo nooooooooo nooooooo noo nooo noo. No noo Nooooo, no nooooo noooo

confident that this would be the case, and occasionally with a deriding
noooooooo nooo nooo noooo no noo nooo, noo nooooooooooo nooo n nooooooo

gesture shook his lamp-feeder at the other boats.
noooooo noooo noo nooo-nooooo no noo noooo noooo.




"The ungracious and ungrateful dog!" cried Starbuck; "he mocks and dares
"Noo nooooooooo noo nooooooooo noo!" noooo Nooooooo; "no noooo noo noooo

me with the very poor-box I filled for him not five minutes ago!"--then
no nooo noo nooo nooo-noo N nooooo noo noo noo nooo noooooo noo!"--nooo

in his old intense whisper--"Give way, greyhounds! Dog to it!"
no noo noo noooooo noooooo--"Nooo noo, nooooooooo! Noo no no!"




"I tell ye what it is, men"--cried Stubb to his crew--"it's against
"N nooo no nooo no no, noo"--noooo Noooo no noo nooo--"no'n noooooo

my religion to get mad; but I'd like to eat that villainous
no nooooooo no noo noo; noo N'n nooo no noo nooo nooooooooo

Yarman--Pull--won't ye? Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye? Do
Nooooo--Nooo--noo'n no? Noo no noooo no noo nooo nooooo nooo no? No

ye love brandy? A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man. Come,
no nooo nooooo? N nooooooo no nooooo, nooo, no noo nooo noo. Nooo,

why don't some of ye burst a blood-vessel? Who's that been dropping an
noo noo'n nooo no no noooo n noooo-nooooo? Noo'n nooo nooo nooooooo no

anchor overboard--we don't budge an inch--we're becalmed. Halloo, here's
nooooo noooooooo--no noo'n noooo no nooo--no'no nooooooo. Nooooo, nooo'n

grass growing in the boat's bottom--and by the Lord, the mast there's
noooo noooooo no noo nooo'n nooooo--noo no noo Nooo, noo nooo noooo'n

budding. This won't do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and long of
noooooo. Nooo noo'n no, nooo. Nooo no nooo Nooooo! Noo noooo noo nooo no

it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?"
no no, noo, nooo no nooo nooo no noo?"




"Oh! see the suds he makes!" cried Flask, dancing up and down--"What
"No! noo noo nooo no noooo!" noooo Noooo, noooooo no noo nooo--"Nooo

a hump--Oh, DO pile on the beef--lays like a log! Oh! my lads, DO
n nooo--No, NO nooo no noo nooo--nooo nooo n noo! No! no nooo, NO

spring--slap-jacks and quahogs for supper, you know, my lads--baked
nooooo--nooo-noooo noo noooooo noo nooooo, noo nooo, no nooo--noooo

clams and muffins--oh, DO, DO, spring,--he's a hundred barreller--don't
noooo noo noooooo--no, NO, NO, nooooo,--no'n n noooooo noooooooo--noo'n

lose him now--don't oh, DON'T!--see that Yarman--Oh, won't ye pull for
nooo noo noo--noo'n no, NOO'N!--noo nooo Nooooo--No, noo'n no nooo noo

your duff, my lads--such a sog! such a sogger! Don't ye love sperm?
nooo nooo, no nooo--nooo n noo! nooo n nooooo! Noo'n no nooo noooo?

There goes three thousand dollars, men!--a bank!--a whole bank! The bank
Noooo nooo noooo nooooooo noooooo, noo!--n nooo!--n noooo nooo! Noo nooo

of England!--Oh, DO, DO, DO!--What's that Yarman about now?"
no Noooooo!--No, NO, NO, NO!--Nooo'n nooo Nooooo noooo noo?"




At this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp-feeder at the
No nooo nooooo Nooooo noo no noo noo no nooooooo noo nooo-nooooo no noo

advancing boats, and also his oil-can; perhaps with the double view
noooooooo noooo, noo nooo noo noo-noo; noooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo

of retarding his rivals' way, and at the same time economically
no noooooooo noo nooooo' noo, noo no noo nooo nooo nooooooooooo

accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the backward toss.
nooooooooooo noo noo no noo noooooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo nooo.




"The unmannerly Dutch dogger!" cried Stubb. "Pull now, men, like fifty
"Noo nooooooooo Noooo nooooo!" noooo Noooo. "Nooo noo, noo, nooo noooo

thousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils. What d'ye say,
nooooooo nooo-no-nooooo-nooo noooo no noo-nooooo nooooo. Nooo n'no noo,

Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces
Nooooooo; noo noo noo noo no nooo nooo noooo no noo-noo-nooooo nooooo

for the honour of old Gayhead? What d'ye say?"
noo noo nooooo no noo Noooooo? Nooo n'no noo?"




"I say, pull like god-dam,"--cried the Indian.
"N noo, nooo nooo noo-noo,"--noooo noo Nooooo.




Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of the German, the Pequod's
Nooooooo, noo nooooo noooooo no noo nooooo no noo Nooooo, noo Nooooo'n

three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed,
noooo noooo noo noooo noooooo nooooo noooooo; noo, no nooooooo,

momentarily neared him. In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude of
noooooooooo nooooo noo. No nooo nooo, noooo, nooooooooo nooooooo no

the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up
noo nooooooo nooo noooooo nooo no noo nooo, noo noooo noooo noooo no

proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry
noooooo, nooooooooooo noooooo noo noooo noooooo nooo no nooooooooooo noo

of, "There she slides, now! Hurrah for the white-ash breeze! Down with
no, "Noooo noo nooooo, noo! Nooooo noo noo noooo-noo nooooo! Nooo nooo

the Yarman! Sail over him!"
noo Nooooo! Nooo nooo noo!"




But so decided an original start had Derick had, that spite of all
Noo no noooooo no nooooooo noooo noo Nooooo noo, nooo noooo no noo

their gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this race, had not
noooo noooooooo, no noooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo no nooo nooo, noo noo

a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught the blade
n noooooooo nooooooo noooooooo nooo noo no n nooo noooo nooooo noo noooo

of his midship oarsman. While this clumsy lubber was striving to free
no noo noooooo noooooo. Noooo nooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo no nooo

his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick's boat was nigh to
noo noooo-noo, noo noooo, no noooooooooo, Nooooo'n nooo noo nooo no

capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage;--that was
noooooooo, noo no nooooooooo nooo no noo noo no n nooooo nooo;--nooo noo

a good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask. With a shout, they took a
n nooo nooo noo Nooooooo, Noooo, noo Noooo. Nooo n noooo, nooo nooo n

mortal start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German's quarter.
nooooo noooo nooooooo, noo nooooooooo nooooo no no noo Nooooo'n noooooo.

An instant more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale's
No noooooo nooo, noo noo nooo noooo nooo nooooooooooo no noo noooo'n

immediate wake, while stretching from them, on both sides, was the
noooooooo nooo, noooo nooooooooo nooo nooo, no nooo noooo, noo noo

foaming swell that he made.
noooooo noooo nooo no nooo.




It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight. The whale was
No noo n nooooooo, nooo nooooooo, noo noooooooo noooo. Noo noooo noo

now going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual
noo noooo nooo noo, noo noooooo noo noooo nooooo noo no n noooooooo

tormented jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of
noooooooo noo; noooo noo noo nooo noo nooo noo nooo no no noooo no

fright. Now to this hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering flight,
nooooo. Noo no nooo nooo, noo no nooo, no noooo no noo noooooooo nooooo,

and still at every billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank in the
noo noooo no noooo nooooo nooo no noooo, no noooooooooooo nooo no noo

sea, or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin. So have I
noo, no nooooooo nooooo noooooo noo noo noo noo noooooo noo. No nooo N

seen a bird with clipped wing making affrighted broken circles in the
nooo n nooo nooo noooooo nooo nooooo nooooooooo nooooo noooooo no noo

air, vainly striving to escape the piratical hawks. But the bird has a
noo, nooooo nooooooo no nooooo noo noooooooo noooo. Noo noo nooo noo n

voice, and with plaintive cries will make known her fear; but the fear
noooo, noo nooo noooooooo noooo nooo nooo noooo noo nooo; noo noo nooo

of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained up and enchanted in him;
no nooo nooo nooo noooo no noo noo, noo noooooo no noo noooooooo no noo;

he had no voice, save that choking respiration through his spiracle,
no noo no noooo, nooo nooo noooooo noooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo,

and this made the sight of him unspeakably pitiable; while still, in his
noo nooo nooo noo noooo no noo noooooooooo nooooooo; noooo noooo, no noo

amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent tail, there was enough to
noooooo nooo, nooooooooo noo, noo nooooooooo nooo, noooo noo nooooo no

appal the stoutest man who so pitied.
noooo noo nooooooo noo noo no nooooo.




Seeing now that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod's
Nooooo noo nooo noo n nooo noo noooooo nooo noooo nooo noo Nooooo'n

boats the advantage, and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derick
noooo noo noooooooo, noo nooooo nooo no nooo nooooo no noo nooo, Nooooo

chose to hazard what to him must have seemed a most unusually long dart,
noooo no nooooo nooo no noo nooo nooo nooooo n nooo noooooooo nooo nooo,

ere the last chance would for ever escape.
noo noo nooo nooooo noooo noo nooo nooooo.




But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke, than all three
Noo no nooooo noo noo nooooooooo noooo no noo noo nooooo, nooo noo noooo

tigers--Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo--instinctively sprang to their feet,
nooooo--Nooooooo, Nooooooo, Nooooo--noooooooooooo nooooo no noooo nooo,

and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their barbs; and
noo nooooooo no n nooooooo noo, nooooooooooooo noooooo noooo noooo; noo

darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three Nantucket
nooooo nooo noo nooo no noo Nooooo nooooooooo, noooo noooo Noooooooo

irons entered the whale. Blinding vapours of foam and white-fire! The
noooo noooooo noo noooo. Nooooooo noooooo no nooo noo noooo-nooo! Noo

three boats, in the first fury of the whale's headlong rush, bumped
noooo noooo, no noo noooo nooo no noo noooo'n nooooooo nooo, nooooo

the German's aside with such force, that both Derick and his baffled
noo Nooooo'n noooo nooo nooo noooo, nooo nooo Nooooo noo noo noooooo

harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by the three flying keels.
nooooooooo nooo noooooo noo, noo nooooo nooo no noo noooo nooooo noooo.




"Don't be afraid, my butter-boxes," cried Stubb, casting a passing
"Noo'n no nooooo, no nooooo-noooo," noooo Noooo, noooooo n noooooo

glance upon them as he shot by; "ye'll be picked up presently--all
nooooo nooo nooo no no nooo no; "no'no no nooooo no noooooooo--noo

right--I saw some sharks astern--St. Bernard's dogs, you know--relieve
noooo--N noo nooo nooooo nooooo--No. Noooooo'n nooo, noo nooo--noooooo

distressed travellers. Hurrah! this is the way to sail now. Every keel a
nooooooooo nooooooooo. Nooooo! nooo no noo noo no nooo noo. Noooo nooo n

sunbeam! Hurrah!--Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad
noooooo! Nooooo!--Nooo no no nooo noooo noo noooooo no noo nooo no n noo

cougar! This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a tilbury on
nooooo! Nooo nooo no no nooo no noooooooo no no nooooooo no n noooooo no

a plain--makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to him that
n noooo--noooo noo noooo-nooooo noo, nooo, nooo noo nooooo no noo nooo

way; and there's danger of being pitched out too, when you strike a
noo; noo noooo'n nooooo no noooo noooooo noo noo, nooo noo nooooo n

hill. Hurrah! this is the way a fellow feels when he's going to Davy
nooo. Nooooo! nooo no noo noo n nooooo noooo nooo no'n noooo no Nooo

Jones--all a rush down an endless inclined plane! Hurrah! this whale
Noooo--noo n nooo nooo no noooooo nooooooo noooo! Nooooo! nooo noooo

carries the everlasting mail!"
noooooo noo noooooooooo nooo!"




But the monster's run was a brief one. Giving a sudden gasp, he
Noo noo noooooo'n noo noo n noooo noo. Nooooo n nooooo nooo, no

tumultuously sounded. With a grating rush, the three lines flew round
nooooooooooo noooooo. Nooo n noooooo nooo, noo noooo noooo nooo noooo

the loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them;
noo noooooooooo nooo nooo n noooo no no noooo nooo noooooo no nooo;

while so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding would
noooo no noooooo nooo noo noooooooooo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo noooo

soon exhaust the lines, that using all their dexterous might, they
nooo noooooo noo noooo, nooo noooo noo noooo noooooooo noooo, nooo

caught repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on; till at
nooooo nooooooo noooooo noooo nooo noo nooo no nooo no; nooo no

last--owing to the perpendicular strain from the lead-lined chocks of
nooo--noooo no noo noooooooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo-noooo nooooo no

the boats, whence the three ropes went straight down into the blue--the
noo noooo, nooooo noo noooo noooo nooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooo--noo

gunwales of the bows were almost even with the water, while the three
nooooooo no noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo, noooo noo noooo

sterns tilted high in the air. And the whale soon ceasing to sound,
nooooo nooooo nooo no noo noo. Noo noo noooo nooo noooooo no noooo,

for some time they remained in that attitude, fearful of expending more
noo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo no nooo nooooooo, noooooo no noooooooo nooo

line, though the position was a little ticklish. But though boats have
nooo, nooooo noo nooooooo noo n nooooo nooooooo. Noo nooooo noooo nooo

been taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this "holding on," as it
nooo noooo nooo noo nooo no nooo noo, noo no no nooo "noooooo no," no no

is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live flesh from
no nooooo; nooo noooooo no no noo noooo noooo no noo nooo noooo nooo

the back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon rising
noo nooo; nooo no no nooo noooo nooooooo noo Noooooooo nooo nooo nooooo

again to meet the sharp lance of his foes. Yet not to speak of the peril
noooo no nooo noo noooo noooo no noo nooo. Noo noo no noooo no noo noooo

of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is always the
no noo noooo, no no no no noooooo noooooo nooo nooooo no nooooo noo

best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the stricken
nooo; noo no no noo nooooooooo no noooooo, nooo noo nooooo noo nooooooo

whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted. Because, owing to the
noooo noooo noooo noooo, noo nooo no no noooooooo. Noooooo, noooo no noo

enormous surface of him--in a full grown sperm whale something less than
nooooooo noooooo no noo--no n nooo noooo noooo noooo noooooooo nooo nooo

2000 square feet--the pressure of the water is immense. We all know
nooo nooooo nooo--noo nooooooo no noo noooo no noooooo. No noo nooo

what an astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under; even
nooo no noooooooooo noooooooooo nooooo no noooooooo noooo no noooo; nooo

here, above-ground, in the air; how vast, then, the burden of a whale,
nooo, noooo-nooooo, no noo noo; noo nooo, nooo, noo nooooo no n noooo,

bearing on his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean! It must at
noooooo no noo nooo n nooooo no noo noooooo noooooo no noooo! No nooo no

least equal the weight of fifty atmospheres. One whaleman has estimated
noooo noooo noo nooooo no noooo noooooooooo. Noo nooooooo noo noooooooo

it at the weight of twenty line-of-battle ships, with all their guns,
no no noo nooooo no nooooo nooo-no-nooooo noooo, nooo noo noooo nooo,

and stores, and men on board.
noo nooooo, noo noo no noooo.




As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing down
No noo noooo noooo noo noooo no nooo nooooo noooooo noo, nooooo nooo

into its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of any
nooo noo noooooo nooo nooo; noo no noo n nooooo noooo no noo no noo

sort, nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths;
nooo, noo, noo no nooo no n nooooo no n nooooo nooo no nooo noo nooooo;

what landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and
nooo nooooooo noooo nooo noooooo, nooo noooooo noo nooo noooooo noo

placidity, the utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in
noooooooo, noo nooooo noooooo no noo nooo noo nooooooo noo noooooooo no

agony! Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows.
noooo! Noo noooo nooooo no noooooooooooo nooo nooo noooooo no noo nooo.

Seems it credible that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan
Noooo no nooooooo nooo no noooo nooo nooo noooooo noo noooo Noooooooo

was suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock. Suspended? and
noo noooooooo nooo noo noo nooooo no no noooo noo noooo. Noooooooo? noo

to what? To three bits of board. Is this the creature of whom it was
no nooo? No noooo nooo no noooo. No nooo noo nooooooo no nooo no noo

once so triumphantly said--"Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons?
nooo no nooooooooooo nooo--"Noooo nooo nooo noo nooo nooo nooooo noooo?

or his head with fish-spears? The sword of him that layeth at him cannot
no noo nooo nooo nooo-nooooo? Noo noooo no noo nooo nooooo no noo nooooo

hold, the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon: he esteemeth iron as
nooo, noo noooo, noo nooo, noo noo noooooooo: no noooooooo nooo no

straw; the arrow cannot make him flee; darts are counted as stubble;
noooo; noo noooo nooooo nooo noo nooo; noooo noo noooooo no noooooo;

he laugheth at the shaking of a spear!" This the creature? this he? Oh!
no nooooooo no noo noooooo no n noooo!" Nooo noo nooooooo? nooo no? No!

that unfulfilments should follow the prophets. For with the strength
nooo noooooooooooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo. Noo nooo noo nooooooo

of a thousand thighs in his tail, Leviathan had run his head under the
no n nooooooo nooooo no noo nooo, Noooooooo noo noo noo nooo noooo noo

mountains of the sea, to hide him from the Pequod's fish-spears!
noooooooo no noo noo, no nooo noo nooo noo Nooooo'n nooo-nooooo!




In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the shadows that the three boats
No nooo noooooo noooooooo nooooooo, noo noooooo nooo noo noooo noooo

sent down beneath the surface, must have been long enough and broad
nooo nooo noooooo noo noooooo, nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo noo noooo

enough to shade half Xerxes' army. Who can tell how appalling to the
nooooo no noooo nooo Nooooo' nooo. Noo noo nooo noo noooooooo no noo

wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head!
noooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo!




"Stand by, men; he stirs," cried Starbuck, as the three lines suddenly
"Noooo no, noo; no noooo," noooo Nooooooo, no noo noooo noooo nooooooo

vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by
nooooooo no noo noooo, nooooooooo nooooooooo noooooo no nooo, no no

magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every
nooooooo noooo, noo nooo noo noooo nooooo no noo noooo, no nooo noooo

oarsman felt them in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part
noooooo nooo nooo no noo nooo. Noo nooo nooooo, nooooooo no noooo nooo

from the downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce
nooo noo nooooooo nooooo no noo nooo, noo noooo nooo n nooooo nooooo

upwards, as a small icefield will, when a dense herd of white bears are
noooooo, no n noooo nooooooo nooo, nooo n noooo nooo no noooo noooo noo

scared from it into the sea.
nooooo nooo no nooo noo noo.




"Haul in! Haul in!" cried Starbuck again; "he's rising."
"Nooo no! Nooo no!" noooo Nooooooo noooo; "no'n nooooo."




The lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand's breadth
Noo noooo, no noooo, nooooo no noooooo nooooo, noo noo nooo'n noooooo

could have been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all
noooo nooo nooo nooooo, nooo noo no nooo noooo noooo noooo nooo noo

dripping into the boats, and soon the whale broke water within two
nooooooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo noo noooo noooo noooo nooooo noo

ship's lengths of the hunters.
nooo'n noooooo no noo noooooo.




His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion. In most land animals
Noo noooooo noooooo noooooo noo noooooo nooooooooo. No nooo nooo noooooo

there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins, whereby
noooo noo noooooo nooooo no noooo-noooo no nooo no noooo noooo, noooooo

when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off in
nooo noooooo, noo noooo no no nooo nooooo no noooo noooooooo nooo noo no

certain directions. Not so with the whale; one of whose peculiarities
noooooo nooooooooo. Noo no nooo noo noooo; noo no noooo noooooooooooo

it is to have an entire non-valvular structure of the blood-vessels, so
no no no nooo no nooooo noo-nooooooo noooooooo no noo noooo-noooooo, no

that when pierced even by so small a point as a harpoon, a deadly
nooo nooo noooooo nooo no no noooo n noooo no n noooooo, n nooooo

drain is at once begun upon his whole arterial system; and when this is
noooo no no nooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooooooo nooooo; noo nooo nooo no

heightened by the extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance
nooooooooo no noo noooooooooooo nooooooo no noooo no n noooo nooooooo

below the surface, his life may be said to pour from him in incessant
noooo noo noooooo, noo nooo noo no nooo no nooo nooo noo no noooooooo

streams. Yet so vast is the quantity of blood in him, and so distant
noooooo. Noo no nooo no noo nooooooo no noooo no noo, noo no noooooo

and numerous its interior fountains, that he will keep thus bleeding and
noo nooooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo, nooo no nooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo

bleeding for a considerable period; even as in a drought a river will
nooooooo noo n nooooooooooo nooooo; nooo no no n noooooo n noooo nooo

flow, whose source is in the well-springs of far-off and undiscernible
nooo, noooo nooooo no no noo nooo-noooooo no noo-noo noo noooooooooooo

hills. Even now, when the boats pulled upon this whale, and perilously
noooo. Nooo noo, nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo, noo nooooooooo

drew over his swaying flukes, and the lances were darted into him,
nooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo, noo noo nooooo nooo nooooo nooo noo,

they were followed by steady jets from the new made wound, which kept
nooo nooo nooooooo no nooooo nooo nooo noo noo nooo noooo, noooo nooo

continually playing, while the natural spout-hole in his head was only
noooooooooo noooooo, noooo noo noooooo noooo-nooo no noo nooo noo nooo

at intervals, however rapid, sending its affrighted moisture into the
no noooooooo, noooooo noooo, noooooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo

air. From this last vent no blood yet came, because no vital part of him
noo. Nooo nooo nooo nooo no noooo noo nooo, noooooo no noooo nooo no noo

had thus far been struck. His life, as they significantly call it, was
noo nooo noo nooo nooooo. Noo nooo, no nooo noooooooooooo nooo no, noo

untouched.
noooooooo.




As the boats now more closely surrounded him, the whole upper part of
No noo noooo noo nooo noooooo nooooooooo noo, noo noooo noooo nooo no

his form, with much of it that is ordinarily submerged, was plainly
noo nooo, nooo nooo no no nooo no nooooooooo noooooooo, noo noooooo

revealed. His eyes, or rather the places where his eyes had been, were
nooooooo. Noo nooo, no nooooo noo nooooo noooo noo nooo noo nooo, nooo

beheld. As strange misgrown masses gather in the knot-holes of the
nooooo. No noooooo nooooooo nooooo nooooo no noo nooo-noooo no noo

noblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which the whale's eyes
noooooo nooo nooo noooooooo, no nooo noo nooooo noooo noo noooo'n nooo

had once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly pitiable to see.
noo nooo nooooooo, noo noooooooo noooo noooo, nooooooo nooooooo no noo.

But pity there was none. For all his old age, and his one arm, and his
Noo nooo noooo noo nooo. Noo noo noo noo noo, noo noo noo noo, noo noo

blind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to light the
noooo nooo, no nooo noo noo noooo noo no nooooooo, no noooo no noooo noo

gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate the
noo noooooo noo noooo noooo-noooooo no noo, noo nooo no nooooooooo noo

solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to all.
nooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo noooooooooooo noooooooooooooo no noo no noo.

Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a strangely
Noooo noooooo no noo noooo, no nooo no noooooooo noooooooo n noooooooo

discoloured bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, low down on the
noooooooooo noooo no nooooooooooo, noo nooo no n nooooo, noo nooo no noo

flank.
noooo.




"A nice spot," cried Flask; "just let me prick him there once."
"N nooo nooo," noooo Noooo; "nooo noo no noooo noo noooo nooo."




"Avast!" cried Starbuck, "there's no need of that!"
"Noooo!" noooo Nooooooo, "noooo'n no nooo no nooo!"




But humane Starbuck was too late. At the instant of the dart an
Noo nooooo Nooooooo noo noo nooo. No noo noooooo no noo nooo no

ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound, and goaded by it into more than
nooooooo noo nooo nooo nooo noooo noooo, noo nooooo no no nooo nooo nooo

sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick blood, with swift fury
nooooooooo noooooo, noo noooo noo nooooooo noooo noooo, nooo noooo nooo

blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and their glorying crews
noooooo nooooo no noo noooo, nooooooooooo nooo noo noooo nooooooo noooo

all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask's boat and marring the
noo nooo nooo noooooo no nooo, noooooooo Noooo'n nooo noo noooooo noo

bows. It was his death stroke. For, by this time, so spent was he by
nooo. No noo noo noooo nooooo. Noo, no nooo nooo, no noooo noo no no

loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
nooo no noooo, nooo no nooooooooo nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo no noo

made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,
nooo; noo noooooo no noo nooo, nooooooooo noooooo nooo noo noooooo noo,

then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up
nooo nooo noo nooo nooooo nooooooo nooo n nooooo noooo; nooooo no

the white secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died. It was most
noo noooo noooooo no noo noooo; noo nooo n noo, noo nooo. No noo nooo

piteous, that last expiring spout. As when by unseen hands the water
noooooo, nooo nooo nooooooo noooo. No nooo no nooooo noooo noo noooo

is gradually drawn off from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled
no noooooooo noooo noo nooo nooo nooooo nooooooo, noo nooo nooo-noooooo

melancholy gurglings the spray-column lowers and lowers to the
nooooooooo noooooooo noo noooo-nooooo nooooo noo nooooo no noo

ground--so the last long dying spout of the whale.
nooooo--no noo nooo nooo noooo noooo no noo noooo.




Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body
Nooo, noooo noo noooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooo no noo nooo, noo nooo

showed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled. Immediately,
nooooo nooooooo no noooooo nooo noo noo noooooooo nooooooo. Noooooooooo,

by Starbuck's orders, lines were secured to it at different points, so
no Nooooooo'n nooooo, noooo nooo noooooo no no no noooooooo nooooo, no

that ere long every boat was a buoy; the sunken whale being suspended a
nooo noo nooo noooo nooo noo n nooo; noo nooooo noooo noooo noooooooo n

few inches beneath them by the cords. By very heedful management, when
noo nooooo noooooo nooo no noo noooo. No nooo noooooo nooooooooo, nooo

the ship drew nigh, the whale was transferred to her side, and was
noo nooo nooo nooo, noo noooo noo noooooooooo no noo nooo, noo noo

strongly secured there by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain
nooooooo noooooo noooo no noo nooooooo noooo-nooooo, noo no noo noooo

that unless artificially upheld, the body would at once sink to the
nooo nooooo nooooooooooo nooooo, noo nooo noooo no nooo nooo no noo

bottom.
nooooo.




It so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade,
No no noooooo nooo nooooo nooo noooo noooooo nooo noo nooo noo noooo,

the entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh,
noo nooooo nooooo no n nooooooo noooooo noo noooo nooooooo no noo noooo,

on the lower part of the bunch before described. But as the stumps of
no noo noooo nooo no noo noooo nooooo noooooooo. Noo no noo nooooo no

harpoons are frequently found in the dead bodies of captured whales,
nooooooo noo nooooooooo noooo no noo nooo nooooo no nooooooo nooooo,

with the flesh perfectly healed around them, and no prominence of any
nooo noo noooo noooooooo nooooo nooooo nooo, noo no nooooooooo no noo

kind to denote their place; therefore, there must needs have been
nooo no nooooo noooo noooo; noooooooo, noooo nooo noooo nooo nooo

some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for
nooo noooo noooooo nooooo no noo noooooo nooo noooo no noooooo noo

the ulceration alluded to. But still more curious was the fact of a
noo nooooooooo noooooo no. Noo noooo nooo noooooo noo noo nooo no n

lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron,
noooo-nooo no noooo noooo noooo no noo, noo noo nooo noo nooooo nooo,

the flesh perfectly firm about it. Who had darted that stone lance? And
noo noooo noooooooo nooo noooo no. Noo noo nooooo nooo noooo noooo? Noo

when? It might have been darted by some Nor' West Indian long before
nooo? No noooo nooo nooo nooooo no nooo Noo' Nooo Nooooo nooo nooooo

America was discovered.
Noooooo noo nooooooooo.




What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous
Nooo noooo noooooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo no nooo noooooooo

cabinet there is no telling. But a sudden stop was put to further
noooooo noooo no no noooooo. Noo n nooooo nooo noo noo no noooooo

discoveries, by the ship's being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways
noooooooooo, no noo nooo'n noooo noooooooooooooo noooooo nooo nooooooo

to the sea, owing to the body's immensely increasing tendency to sink.
no noo noo, noooo no noo nooo'n noooooooo nooooooooo nooooooo no nooo.

However, Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it to the
Noooooo, Nooooooo, noo noo noo nooooooo no noooooo, nooo no no no no noo

last; hung on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the ship
nooo; nooo no no no no nooooooooo, nooooo, nooo nooo no nooooo noo nooo

would have been capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with the
noooo nooo nooo nooooooo, no noooo nooooooooo no noooooo nooo nooo noo

body; then, when the command was given to break clear from it, such was
nooo; nooo, nooo noo noooooo noo noooo no noooo noooo nooo no, nooo noo

the immovable strain upon the timber-heads to which the fluke-chains and
noo noooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo-noooo no noooo noo noooo-nooooo noo

cables were fastened, that it was impossible to cast them off. Meantime
nooooo nooo nooooooo, nooo no noo nooooooooo no nooo nooo noo. Nooooooo

everything in the Pequod was aslant. To cross to the other side of the
nooooooooo no noo Nooooo noo nooooo. No noooo no noo noooo nooo no noo

deck was like walking up the steep gabled roof of a house. The ship
nooo noo nooo noooooo no noo noooo nooooo nooo no n noooo. Noo nooo

groaned and gasped. Many of the ivory inlayings of her bulwarks and
noooooo noo nooooo. Nooo no noo noooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo noo

cabins were started from their places, by the unnatural dislocation.
nooooo nooo noooooo nooo noooo nooooo, no noo noooooooo noooooooooo.

In vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable
No nooo nooooooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo no nooo nooo noo noooooooo

fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timberheads; and so low
noooo-nooooo, no noo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooooooooo; noo no noo

had the whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all
noo noo noooo noo noooooo nooo noo noooooooo nooo noooo noo no no noo

approached, while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed added to
nooooooooo, noooo noooo nooooo noooo nooo no noooooooooo nooooo noooo no

the sinking bulk, and the ship seemed on the point of going over.
noo noooooo nooo, noo noo nooo nooooo no noo noooo no noooo nooo.




"Hold on, hold on, won't ye?" cried Stubb to the body, "don't be in such
"Nooo no, nooo no, noo'n no?" noooo Noooo no noo nooo, "noo'n no no nooo

a devil of a hurry to sink! By thunder, men, we must do something or go
n noooo no n noooo no nooo! No noooooo, noo, no nooo no noooooooo no no

for it. No use prying there; avast, I say with your handspikes, and run
noo no. No noo nooooo noooo; noooo, N noo nooo nooo nooooooooo, noo noo

one of ye for a prayer book and a pen-knife, and cut the big chains."
noo no no noo n nooooo nooo noo n noo-noooo, noo noo noo noo nooooo."




"Knife? Aye, aye," cried Queequeg, and seizing the carpenter's heavy
"Noooo? Noo, noo," noooo Nooooooo, noo noooooo noo noooooooo'n noooo

hatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and steel to iron, began slashing
noooooo, no nooooo noo no n nooooooo, noo noooo no nooo, noooo nooooooo

at the largest fluke-chains. But a few strokes, full of sparks, were
no noo noooooo noooo-nooooo. Noo n noo noooooo, nooo no nooooo, nooo

given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest. With a terrific
noooo, nooo noo noooooooo nooooo nooooooo noo nooo. Nooo n nooooooo

snap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the carcase sank.
nooo, noooo noooooooo nooo nooooo; noo nooo noooooo, noo noooooo nooo.




Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed Sperm
Noo, nooo nooooooooo nooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo Noooo

Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately
Noooo no n nooo noooooo noooo; noo noo noo noooooooo noo nooooooooo

accounted for it. Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great
noooooooo noo no. Noooooo noo nooo Noooo Noooo nooooo nooo noooo

buoyancy, with its side or belly considerably elevated above the
nooooooo, nooo noo nooo no noooo nooooooooooo nooooooo noooo noo

surface. If the only whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and
noooooo. No noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo noo, nooooo, noo

broken-hearted creatures, their pads of lard diminished and all their
nooooo-noooooo noooooooo, noooo nooo no nooo nooooooooo noo noo noooo

bones heavy and rheumatic; then you might with some reason assert that
noooo noooo noo noooooooo; nooo noo noooo nooo nooo nooooo nooooo nooo

this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so
nooo noooooo no nooooo no no nooooooo nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo no

sinking, consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him. But it
noooooo, nooooooooo nooo nooo noooooo no noooooo nooooo no noo. Noo no

is not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with
no noo no. Noo noooo nooooo, no noo noooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo nooo

noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May of
noooo noooooooooo, noooooooooo noo noo no noo nooo noooo noo Noo no

life, with all their panting lard about them; even these brawny, buoyant
nooo, nooo noo noooo noooooo nooo noooo nooo; nooo noooo nooooo, noooooo

heroes do sometimes sink.
nooooo no noooooooo nooo.




Be it said, however, that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this
No no nooo, noooooo, nooo noo Noooo Noooo no noo nooo nooooo no nooo

accident than any other species. Where one of that sort go down, twenty
nooooooo nooo noo noooo noooooo. Noooo noo no nooo nooo no nooo, nooooo

Right Whales do. This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in
Noooo Nooooo no. Nooo nooooooooo no noo noooooo no no noooo noooooooo no

no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale;
no noooo nooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo no nooo no noo Noooo Noooo;

his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton; from this
noo Nooooooo nooooo noooo noooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo n noo; nooo nooo

incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there are instances
noooooooooo noo Noooo Noooo no nooooo nooo. Noo noooo noo noooooooo

where, after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale
noooo, noooo noo noooo no nooo noooo no noooooo nooo, noo nooooo noooo

again rises, more buoyant than in life. But the reason of this
noooo noooo, nooo noooooo nooo no nooo. Noo noo nooooo no nooo

is obvious. Gases are generated in him; he swells to a prodigious
no noooooo. Noooo noo noooooooo no noo; no nooooo no n nooooooooo

magnitude; becomes a sort of animal balloon. A line-of-battle ship could
noooooooo; noooooo n nooo no nooooo noooooo. N nooo-no-nooooo nooo noooo

hardly keep him under then. In the Shore Whaling, on soundings, among
nooooo nooo noo noooo nooo. No noo Noooo Noooooo, no noooooooo, noooo

the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right Whale gives token of sinking, they
noo Nooo no Noo Noooooo, nooo n Noooo Noooo noooo noooo no noooooo, nooo

fasten buoys to him, with plenty of rope; so that when the body has gone
nooooo noooo no noo, nooo nooooo no nooo; no nooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo

down, they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again.
nooo, nooo nooo noooo no nooo noo no nooo no noooo nooo nooooooo noooo.




It was not long after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard from
No noo noo nooo noooo noo noooooo no noo nooo nooo n noo noo noooo nooo

the Pequod's mast-heads, announcing that the Jungfrau was again lowering
noo Nooooo'n nooo-noooo, nooooooooo nooo noo Nooooooo noo noooo nooooooo

her boats; though the only spout in sight was that of a Fin-Back,
noo noooo; nooooo noo nooo noooo no noooo noo nooo no n Noo-Nooo,

belonging to the species of uncapturable whales, because of its
noooooooo no noo noooooo no nooooooooooo nooooo, noooooo no noo

incredible power of swimming. Nevertheless, the Fin-Back's spout is so
nooooooooo noooo no nooooooo. Nooooooooooo, noo Noo-Nooo'n noooo no no

similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful fishermen it is often
noooooo no noo Noooo Noooo'n, nooo no noooooooo noooooooo no no noooo

mistaken for it. And consequently Derick and all his host were now in
nooooooo noo no. Noo nooooooooooo Nooooo noo noo noo nooo nooo noo no

valiant chase of this unnearable brute. The Virgin crowding all sail,
noooooo noooo no nooo nooooooooo noooo. Noo Nooooo nooooooo noo nooo,

made after her four young keels, and thus they all disappeared far to
nooo noooo noo nooo noooo noooo, noo nooo nooo noo noooooooooo noo no

leeward, still in bold, hopeful chase.
noooooo, noooo no nooo, noooooo noooo.




Oh! many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the Dericks, my friend.
No! nooo noo noo Noo-Noooo, noo nooo noo noo Noooooo, no nooooo.










CHAPTER 82. The Honour and Glory of Whaling.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooo noo Noooo no Noooooo.







There are some enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true
Noooo noo nooo noooooooooo no noooo n noooooo nooooooooooooo no noo nooo

method.
nooooo.




The more I dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up
Noo nooo N nooo nooo nooo nooooo no noooooo, noo nooo no nooooooooo no

to the very spring-head of it so much the more am I impressed with its
no noo nooo nooooo-nooo no no no nooo noo nooo no N noooooooo nooo noo

great honourableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many
noooo nooooooooooooo noo noooooooo; noo nooooooooo nooo N nooo no nooo

great demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or other
noooo nooo-nooo noo nooooo, nooooooo no noo noooo, noo noo noo no noooo

have shed distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection
nooo nooo noooooooooo nooo no, N no noooooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo

that I myself belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a
nooo N nooooo nooooo, nooooo noo noooooooooooo, no no nooooooooo n

fraternity.
nooooooooo.




The gallant Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and
Noo noooooo Noooooo, n noo no Noooooo, noo noo noooo nooooooo; noo

to the eternal honour of our calling be it said, that the first whale
no noo noooooo nooooo no noo noooooo no no nooo, nooo noo noooo noooo

attacked by our brotherhood was not killed with any sordid intent. Those
nooooooo no noo noooooooooo noo noo nooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo. Noooo

were the knightly days of our profession, when we only bore arms to
nooo noo nooooooo nooo no noo nooooooooo, nooo no nooo nooo nooo no

succor the distressed, and not to fill men's lamp-feeders. Every one
nooooo noo nooooooooo, noo noo no nooo noo'n nooo-noooooo. Noooo noo

knows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda; how the lovely Andromeda,
noooo noo nooo noooo no Noooooo noo Noooooooo; noo noo nooooo Noooooooo,

the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the sea-coast, and as
noo nooooooo no n nooo, noo nooo no n nooo no noo noo-noooo, noo no

Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off, Perseus, the prince
Noooooooo noo no noo nooo noo no nooooooo noo noo, Noooooo, noo nooooo

of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster, and delivered
no nooooooo, nooooooooo noooooooo, noooooooo noo noooooo, noo noooooooo

and married the maid. It was an admirable artistic exploit, rarely
noo noooooo noo nooo. No noo no noooooooo nooooooo noooooo, nooooo

achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this
nooooooo no noo nooo noooooooooo no noo noooooo noo; nooooooo no nooo

Leviathan was slain at the very first dart. And let no man doubt this
Noooooooo noo noooo no noo nooo noooo nooo. Noo noo no noo noooo nooo

Arkite story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian coast,
Nooooo noooo; noo no noo noooooo Noooo, noo Noooo, no noo Nooooo noooo,

in one of the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton
no noo no noo Noooo noooooo, noooo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo

of a whale, which the city's legends and all the inhabitants asserted to
no n noooo, noooo noo nooo'n noooooo noo noo noo noooooooooo nooooooo no

be the identical bones of the monster that Perseus slew. When the Romans
no noo noooooooo noooo no noo noooooo nooo Noooooo nooo. Nooo noo Nooooo

took Joppa, the same skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph. What
nooo Noooo, noo nooo nooooooo noo noooooo no Noooo no noooooo. Nooo

seems most singular and suggestively important in this story, is this:
noooo nooo nooooooo noo nooooooooooo noooooooo no nooo noooo, no nooo:

it was from Joppa that Jonah set sail.
no noo nooo Noooo nooo Noooo noo nooo.




Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda--indeed, by some supposed
Nooo no noo noooooooo no Noooooo noo Noooooooo--nooooo, no nooo nooooooo

to be indirectly derived from it--is that famous story of St. George and
no no nooooooooo noooooo nooo no--no nooo nooooo noooo no No. Nooooo noo

the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
noo Nooooo; noooo nooooo N nooooooo no nooo nooo n noooo; noo no nooo

old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and
noo nooooooooo nooooo noo noooooo noo noooooooo noooooo nooooooo, noo

often stand for each other. "Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a
noooo noooo noo nooo noooo. "Nooo noo no n nooo no noo nooooo, noo no n

dragon of the sea," saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale;
nooooo no noo noo," noooo Noooooo; nooooo, noooooo noooooo n noooo;

in truth, some versions of the Bible use that word itself. Besides, it
no noooo, nooo nooooooo no noo Noooo noo nooo nooo nooooo. Noooooo, no

would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St. George but
noooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo no noo noooooo noo No. Nooooo noo

encountered a crawling reptile of the land, instead of doing battle
noooooooooo n nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo, noooooo no noooo nooooo

with the great monster of the deep. Any man may kill a snake, but only a
nooo noo noooo noooooo no noo nooo. Noo noo noo nooo n noooo, noo nooo n

Perseus, a St. George, a Coffin, have the heart in them to march boldly
Noooooo, n No. Nooooo, n Nooooo, nooo noo noooo no nooo no noooo nooooo

up to a whale.
no no n noooo.




Let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though
Noo noo noo nooooo noooooooo no nooo noooo noooooo no; noo nooooo

the creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely
noo nooooooo noooooooooo no nooo noooooo nooooooo no noo no noooooo

represented of a griffin-like shape, and though the battle is depicted
noooooooooo no n noooooo-nooo noooo, noo nooooo noo nooooo no nooooooo

on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering the great ignorance
no nooo noo noo noooo no noooooooo, noo noooooooooo noo noooo noooooooo

of those times, when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists;
no noooo noooo, nooo noo nooo nooo no noo noooo noo noooooo no noooooo;

and considering that as in Perseus' case, St. George's whale might have
noo noooooooooo nooo no no Noooooo' nooo, No. Nooooo'n noooo noooo nooo

crawled up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that the animal
noooooo no noo no noo noo no noo noooo; noo noooooooooo nooo noo nooooo

ridden by St. George might have been only a large seal, or sea-horse;
nooooo no No. Nooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo n noooo nooo, no noo-noooo;

bearing all this in mind, it will not appear altogether incompatible
noooooo noo nooo no nooo, no nooo noo nooooo nooooooooo nooooooooooo

with the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene, to
nooo noo nooooo nooooo noo noo nooooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo, no

hold this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself. In
nooo nooo no-nooooo nooooo no noooo nooo noo noooo Noooooooo noooooo. No

fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole story will
nooo, nooooo nooooo noo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo, nooo noooo noooo nooo

fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines, Dagon by
nooo nooo nooo nooo, noooo, noo nooo nooo no noo Noooooooooo, Noooo no

name; who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse's head and
nooo; noo noooo noooooo nooooo noo noo no Nooooo, noo noooo'n nooo noo

both the palms of his hands fell off from him, and only the stump or
nooo noo noooo no noo noooo nooo noo nooo noo, noo nooo noo noooo no

fishy part of him remained. Thus, then, one of our own noble stamp, even
noooo nooo no noo nooooooo. Nooo, nooo, noo no noo noo noooo noooo, nooo

a whaleman, is the tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we
n nooooooo, no noo nooooooo nooooooo no Noooooo; noo no nooo nooooo, no

harpooneers of Nantucket should be enrolled in the most noble order
noooooooooo no Noooooooo nooooo no nooooooo no noo nooo noooo noooo

of St. George. And therefore, let not the knights of that honourable
no No. Nooooo. Noo noooooooo, noo noo noo noooooo no nooo nooooooooo

company (none of whom, I venture to say, have ever had to do with a
noooooo (nooo no nooo, N noooooo no noo, nooo nooo noo no no nooo n

whale like their great patron), let them never eye a Nantucketer with
noooo nooo noooo noooo nooooo), noo nooo noooo noo n Noooooooooo nooo

disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred trowsers we are
noooooo, noooo nooo no noo noooooo nooooo noo nooooo nooooooo no noo

much better entitled to St. George's decoration than they.
nooo nooooo nooooooo no No. Nooooo'n nooooooooo nooo nooo.




Whether to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I long
Noooooo no noooo Nooooooo noooo no no noo, nooooooooo nooo N nooo

remained dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that
nooooooo noooooo: noo nooooo noooooooo no noo Noooo noooooooooo, nooo

antique Crockett and Kit Carson--that brawny doer of rejoicing good
noooooo Nooooooo noo Noo Nooooo--nooo nooooo nooo no noooooooo nooo

deeds, was swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whether
noooo, noo noooooooo nooo noo nooooo no no n noooo; noooo, noooooo

that strictly makes a whaleman of him, that might be mooted. It nowhere
nooo nooooooo noooo n nooooooo no noo, nooo noooo no nooooo. No noooooo

appears that he ever actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed,
noooooo nooo no nooo nooooooo noooooooo noo nooo, nooooo, nooooo,

from the inside. Nevertheless, he may be deemed a sort of involuntary
nooo noo nooooo. Nooooooooooo, no noo no nooooo n nooo no noooooooooo

whaleman; at any rate the whale caught him, if he did not the whale. I
nooooooo; no noo nooo noo noooo nooooo noo, no no noo noo noo noooo. N

claim him for one of our clan.
noooo noo noo noo no noo nooo.




But, by the best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of
Noo, no noo nooo noooooooooooo noooooooooo, nooo Noooooo noooo no

Hercules and the whale is considered to be derived from the still more
Nooooooo noo noo noooo no nooooooooo no no noooooo nooo noo noooo nooo

ancient Hebrew story of Jonah and the whale; and vice versa; certainly
noooooo Nooooo noooo no Noooo noo noo noooo; noo nooo noooo; noooooooo

they are very similar. If I claim the demigod then, why not the prophet?
nooo noo nooo noooooo. No N noooo noo noooooo nooo, noo noo noo noooooo?




Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole
Noo no nooooo, nooooo, nooooooo, noo nooooooo noooo nooooooo noo noooo

roll of our order. Our grand master is still to be named; for like royal
nooo no noo noooo. Noo noooo nooooo no noooo no no noooo; noo nooo noooo

kings of old times, we find the head waters of our fraternity in nothing
noooo no noo noooo, no nooo noo nooo nooooo no noo nooooooooo no noooooo

short of the great gods themselves. That wondrous oriental story is now
noooo no noo noooo nooo nooooooooo. Nooo nooooooo nooooooo noooo no noo

to be rehearsed from the Shaster, which gives us the dread Vishnoo, one
no no noooooooo nooo noo Noooooo, noooo noooo no noo noooo Noooooo, noo

of the three persons in the godhead of the Hindoos; gives us this divine
no noo noooo noooooo no noo noooooo no noo Noooooo; noooo no nooo nooooo

Vishnoo himself for our Lord;--Vishnoo, who, by the first of his ten
Noooooo noooooo noo noo Nooo;--Noooooo, noo, no noo noooo no noo noo

earthly incarnations, has for ever set apart and sanctified the whale.
noooooo nooooooooooo, noo noo nooo noo noooo noo nooooooooo noo noooo.

When Brahma, or the God of Gods, saith the Shaster, resolved to recreate
Nooo Nooooo, no noo Noo no Nooo, noooo noo Noooooo, nooooooo no nooooooo

the world after one of its periodical dissolutions, he gave birth to
noo noooo noooo noo no noo nooooooooo nooooooooooo, no nooo noooo no

Vishnoo, to preside over the work; but the Vedas, or mystical books,
Noooooo, no noooooo nooo noo nooo; noo noo Noooo, no nooooooo noooo,

whose perusal would seem to have been indispensable to Vishnoo before
noooo noooooo noooo nooo no nooo nooo noooooooooooo no Noooooo nooooo

beginning the creation, and which therefore must have contained
noooooooo noo nooooooo, noo noooo noooooooo nooo nooo noooooooo

something in the shape of practical hints to young architects, these
noooooooo no noo noooo no noooooooo noooo no noooo nooooooooo, noooo

Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo became
Noooo nooo noooo no noo nooooo no noo nooooo; no Noooooo nooooo

incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths,
noooooooo no n noooo, noo nooooooo nooo no noo no noo noooooooo nooooo,

rescued the sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even
noooooo noo nooooo noooooo. Noo noo nooo Noooooo n nooooooo, nooo? nooo

as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?
no n noo noo noooo n noooo no nooooo n nooooooo?




Perseus, St. George, Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo! there's a member-roll
Noooooo, No. Nooooo, Nooooooo, Noooo, noo Noooooo! noooo'n n nooooo-nooo

for you! What club but the whaleman's can head off like that?
noo noo! Nooo nooo noo noo nooooooo'n noo nooo noo nooo nooo?










CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.
NOOOOOO no. Noooo Nooooooooooo Nooooooo.







Reference was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the
Noooooooo noo nooo no noo nooooooooo noooo no Noooo noo noo noooo no noo

preceding chapter. Now some Nantucketers rather distrust this historical
noooooooo noooooo. Noo nooo Nooooooooooo nooooo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo

story of Jonah and the whale. But then there were some sceptical Greeks
noooo no Noooo noo noo noooo. Noo nooo noooo nooo nooo noooooooo Nooooo

and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans of their times,
noo Nooooo, noo, nooooooo noo nooo noo nooooooo nooooo no noooo noooo,

equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale, and Arion and the
noooooo noooooo noo noooo no Nooooooo noo noo noooo, noo Noooo noo noo

dolphin; and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those
noooooo; noo noo noooo nooooooo noooo nooooooooo noo noo nooo noooo

traditions one whit the less facts, for all that.
nooooooooo noo nooo noo nooo noooo, noo noo nooo.




One old Sag-Harbor whaleman's chief reason for questioning the Hebrew
Noo noo Noo-Nooooo nooooooo'n noooo nooooo noo noooooooooo noo Nooooo

story was this:--He had one of those quaint old-fashioned Bibles,
noooo noo nooo:--No noo noo no noooo nooooo noo-noooooooo Nooooo,

embellished with curious, unscientific plates; one of which represented
noooooooooo nooo noooooo, nooooooooooo nooooo; noo no noooo noooooooooo

Jonah's whale with two spouts in his head--a peculiarity only true
Noooo'n noooo nooo noo nooooo no noo nooo--n noooooooooo nooo nooo

with respect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and the
nooo noooooo no n noooooo no noo Noooooooo (noo Noooo Noooo, noo noo

varieties of that order), concerning which the fishermen have this
noooooooo no nooo noooo), nooooooooo noooo noo noooooooo nooo nooo

saying, "A penny roll would choke him"; his swallow is so very small.
nooooo, "N noooo nooo noooo noooo noo"; noo noooooo no no nooo noooo.

But, to this, Bishop Jebb's anticipative answer is ready. It is not
Noo, no nooo, Nooooo Nooo'n nooooooooooo nooooo no noooo. No no noo

necessary, hints the Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the
noooooooo, noooo noo Nooooo, nooo no nooooooo Noooo no nooooo no noo

whale's belly, but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth. And
noooo'n noooo, noo no noooooooooo nooooo no nooo nooo no noo noooo. Noo

this seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop. For truly, the
nooo noooo nooooooooo nooooo no noo nooo Nooooo. Noo noooo, noo

Right Whale's mouth would accommodate a couple of whist-tables, and
Noooo Noooo'n noooo noooo noooooooooo n nooooo no noooo-nooooo, noo

comfortably seat all the players. Possibly, too, Jonah might have
noooooooooo nooo noo noo noooooo. Nooooooo, noo, Noooo noooo nooo

ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on second thoughts, the Right
noooooooo noooooo no n nooooo noooo; noo, no nooooo nooooooo, noo Noooo

Whale is toothless.
Noooo no noooooooo.




Another reason which Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his
Noooooo nooooo noooo Noo-Nooooo (no nooo no nooo nooo) noooo noo noo

want of faith in this matter of the prophet, was something obscurely in
nooo no noooo no nooo nooooo no noo noooooo, noo noooooooo noooooooo no

reference to his incarcerated body and the whale's gastric juices. But
noooooooo no noo nooooooooooo nooo noo noo noooo'n noooooo nooooo. Noo

this objection likewise falls to the ground, because a German exegetist
nooo noooooooo nooooooo noooo no noo nooooo, noooooo n Nooooo noooooooo

supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a
nooooooo nooo Noooo nooo nooo noooo nooooo no noo nooooooo nooo no n

DEAD whale--even as the French soldiers in the Russian campaign turned
NOOO noooo--nooo no noo Nooooo nooooooo no noo Noooooo nooooooo nooooo

their dead horses into tents, and crawled into them. Besides, it has
noooo nooo nooooo nooo noooo, noo noooooo nooo nooo. Noooooo, no noo

been divined by other continental commentators, that when Jonah was
nooo noooooo no noooo noooooooooo nooooooooooo, nooo nooo Noooo noo

thrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his escape
nooooo noooooooo nooo noo Noooo nooo, no noooooooooo nooooooo noo nooooo

to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a figure-head;
no noooooo nooooo nooo no, nooo nooooo nooo n noooo noo n nooooo-nooo;

and, I would add, possibly called "The Whale," as some craft are
noo, N noooo noo, nooooooo nooooo "Noo Noooo," no nooo noooo noo

nowadays christened the "Shark," the "Gull," the "Eagle." Nor have there
nooooooo nooooooooo noo "Noooo," noo "Nooo," noo "Noooo." Noo nooo noooo

been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned
nooo noooooo noooooo nooooooooo noo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooo noooooooo

in the book of Jonah merely meant a life-preserver--an inflated bag
no noo nooo no Noooo nooooo noooo n nooo-noooooooo--no nooooooo noo

of wind--which the endangered prophet swam to, and so was saved from a
no nooo--noooo noo nooooooooo noooooo nooo no, noo no noo noooo nooo n

watery doom. Poor Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all round. But
nooooo nooo. Nooo Noo-Nooooo, noooooooo, noooo noooooo noo noooo. Noo

he had still another reason for his want of faith. It was this, if I
no noo noooo noooooo nooooo noo noo nooo no noooo. No noo nooo, no N

remember right: Jonah was swallowed by the whale in the Mediterranean
nooooooo noooo: Noooo noo noooooooo no noo noooo no noo Noooooooooooo

Sea, and after three days he was vomited up somewhere within three days'
Noo, noo noooo noooo nooo no noo noooooo no noooooooo nooooo noooo nooo'

journey of Nineveh, a city on the Tigris, very much more than three
noooooo no Noooooo, n nooo no noo Nooooo, nooo nooo nooo nooo noooo

days' journey across from the nearest point of the Mediterranean coast.
nooo' noooooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo no noo Noooooooooooo noooo.

How is that?
Noo no nooo?




But was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that
Noo noo noooo no noooo noo noo noo noooo no nooo noo noooooo nooooo nooo

short distance of Nineveh? Yes. He might have carried him round by the
noooo nooooooo no Noooooo? Noo. No noooo nooo noooooo noo noooo no noo

way of the Cape of Good Hope. But not to speak of the passage through
noo no noo Nooo no Nooo Nooo. Noo noo no noooo no noo noooooo noooooo

the whole length of the Mediterranean, and another passage up the
noo noooo nooooo no noo Noooooooooooo, noo noooooo noooooo no noo

Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would involve the complete
Noooooo Nooo noo Noo Noo, nooo n noooooooooo noooo noooooo noo nooooooo

circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to speak of the Tigris
nooooooooooooooo no noo Nooooo no noooo nooo, noo no noooo no noo Nooooo

waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any whale to
nooooo, nooo noo nooo no Noooooo, noooo noo noooooo noo noo noooo no

swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah's weathering the Cape of Good Hope
nooo no. Noooooo, nooo nooo no Noooo'n nooooooooo noo Nooo no Nooo Nooo

at so early a day would wrest the honour of the discovery of that great
no no noooo n noo noooo noooo noo nooooo no noo noooooooo no nooo noooo

headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and so make
nooooooo nooo Noooooooooo Nooo, noo noooooo nooooooooo, noo no nooo

modern history a liar.
nooooo noooooo n nooo.




But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only evinced his
Noo noo noooo noooooo noooooooo no noo Noo-Nooooo nooo noooooo noo

foolish pride of reason--a thing still more reprehensible in him, seeing
noooooo noooo no nooooo--n noooo noooo nooo noooooooooooo no noo, nooooo

that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from the
nooo no noo noo nooooo nooooooo nooooo nooo no noo nooooo no nooo noo

sun and the sea. I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
noo noo noo noo. N noo no nooo noooo noo noooooo, noooooo noooo, noo

abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy. For by a
nooooooooo, nooooooo noooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo nooooo. Noo no n

Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah's going to Nineveh
Nooooooooo Nooooooo nooooo, nooo nooo nooo no Noooo'n noooo no Noooooo

via the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of
noo noo Nooo no Nooo Nooo noo nooooooo no n nooooo noooooooooooo no

the general miracle. And so it was. Besides, to this day, the highly
noo noooooo noooooo. Noo no no noo. Noooooo, no nooo noo, noo nooooo

enlightened Turks devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah. And
noooooooooo Noooo nooooooo noooooo no noo nooooooooo noooo no Noooo. Noo

some three centuries ago, an English traveller in old Harris's Voyages,
nooo noooo noooooooo noo, no Noooooo noooooooo no noo Nooooo'n Noooooo,

speaks of a Turkish Mosque built in honour of Jonah, in which Mosque was
nooooo no n Noooooo Nooooo noooo no nooooo no Noooo, no noooo Nooooo noo

a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil.
n nooooooooo nooo nooo noooo noooooo noo noo.










CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooooooo.







To make them run easily and swiftly, the axles of carriages are
No nooo nooo noo nooooo noo noooooo, noo noooo no noooooooo noo

anointed; and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an
nooooooo; noo noo nooo noo nooo noooooo, nooo noooooo noooooo no

analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the bottom. Nor is it
noooooooo noooooooo nooo noooo nooo; nooo nooooo noo nooooo. Noo no no

to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it may possibly
no no noooooo nooo no nooo n noooooooo noo no no nooo, no noo nooooooo

be of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water are
no no no nooooooooooo noooooooo; noooooooooo nooo noo noo noooo noo

hostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to
noooooo; nooo noo no n noooooo noooo, noo nooo noo nooooo no nooo no no

make the boat slide bravely. Queequeg believed strongly in anointing
nooo noo nooo noooo noooooo. Nooooooo nooooooo nooooooo no noooooooo

his boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau
noo nooo, noo noo noooooo noo nooo noooo noo Nooooo nooo Nooooooo

disappeared, took more than customary pains in that occupation; crawling
noooooooooo, nooo nooo nooo noooooooo noooo no nooo nooooooooo; nooooooo

under its bottom, where it hung over the side, and rubbing in the
noooo noo nooooo, noooo no nooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooooo no noo

unctuousness as though diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair from
nooooooooooo no nooooo nooooooooo noooooo no nooooo n nooo no nooo nooo

the craft's bald keel. He seemed to be working in obedience to some
noo noooo'n nooo nooo. No nooooo no no noooooo no noooooooo no nooo

particular presentiment. Nor did it remain unwarranted by the event.
nooooooooo nooooooooooo. Noo noo no nooooo noooooooooo no noo noooo.




Towards noon whales were raised; but so soon as the ship sailed down to
Noooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo; noo no nooo no noo nooo nooooo nooo no

them, they turned and fled with swift precipitancy; a disordered flight,
nooo, nooo nooooo noo nooo nooo noooo nooooooooooo; n nooooooooo nooooo,

as of Cleopatra's barges from Actium.
no no Noooooooo'n nooooo nooo Nooooo.




Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb's was foremost. By great
Nooooooooooo, noo noooo noooooo, noo Noooo'n noo nooooooo. No noooo

exertion, Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the
nooooooo, Nooooooo no nooo noooooooo no nooooooo noo nooo; noo noo

stricken whale, without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal
nooooooo noooo, noooooo no noo nooooooo, noooo noooooooo noo nooooooooo

flight, with added fleetness. Such unintermitted strainings upon the
nooooo, nooo noooo noooooooo. Nooo noooooooooooo nooooooooo nooo noo

planted iron must sooner or later inevitably extract it. It became
noooooo nooo nooo nooooo no noooo nooooooooo noooooo no. No nooooo

imperative to lance the flying whale, or be content to lose him. But
nooooooooo no noooo noo nooooo noooo, no no noooooo no nooo noo. Noo

to haul the boat up to his flank was impossible, he swam so fast and
no nooo noo nooo no no noo noooo noo nooooooooo, no nooo no nooo noo

furious. What then remained?
noooooo. Nooo nooo nooooooo?




Of all the wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and
No noo noo nooooooo noooooo noo noooooooooo, noo nooooooo no nooo noo

countless subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced,
noooooooo nooooooooo, no noooo noo noooooo nooooooo no no noooo nooooo,

none exceed that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling. Small
nooo nooooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo noooooooooo. Noooo

sword, or broad sword, in all its exercises boasts nothing like it. It
noooo, no noooo noooo, no noo noo noooooooo nooooo noooooo nooo no. No

is only indispensable with an inveterate running whale; its grand
no nooo noooooooooooo nooo no nooooooooo noooooo noooo; noo noooo

fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which the long lance is
nooo noo noooooo no noo noooooooo nooooooo no noooo noo nooo noooo no

accurately darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat, under extreme
nooooooooo nooooo nooo n noooooooo noooooo, noooooo nooo, noooo noooooo

headway. Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten or twelve
noooooo. Noooo noo nooo nooooooo, noo nooooo noooo no nooo noo no nooooo

feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon,
nooo no nooooo; noo noooo no nooo nooooooo nooo nooo no noo noooooo,

and also of a lighter material--pine. It is furnished with a small rope
noo nooo no n noooooo nooooooo--nooo. No no noooooooo nooo n noooo nooo

called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be hauled back to
nooooo n nooo, no nooooooooooo nooooo, no noooo no noo no nooooo nooo no

the hand after darting.
noo nooo noooo noooooo.




But before going further, it is important to mention here, that though
Noo nooooo noooo noooooo, no no noooooooo no noooooo nooo, nooo nooooo

the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance, yet it
noo noooooo noo no nooooooooo no noo nooo noo nooo noo noooo, noo no

is seldom done; and when done, is still less frequently successful,
no nooooo nooo; noo nooo nooo, no noooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooooo,

on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as
no noooooo no noo noooooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooooo no noo noooooo no

compared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks. As a
nooooooo nooo noo noooo, noooo no nooooo nooooo noooooo noooooooo. No n

general thing, therefore, you must first get fast to a whale, before any
noooooo noooo, noooooooo, noo nooo noooo noo nooo no n noooo, nooooo noo

pitchpoling comes into play.
noooooooooo noooo nooo nooo.




Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous, deliberate coolness and
Nooo noo no Noooo; n noo noo nooo noo nooooooo, nooooooooo nooooooo noo

equanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially qualified to excel
nooooooooo no noo nooooo noooooooooo, noo noooooooo noooooooo no noooo

in pitchpoling. Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the
no noooooooooo. Nooo no noo; no nooooo noooooo no noo nooooo noo no noo

flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feet ahead.
nooooo nooo; noooo no nooooo nooo, noo nooooo noooo no noooo nooo noooo.

Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice along its
Nooooooo noo nooo noooo noooooo, nooooooo noooo no nooooo noooo noo

length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers up
nooooo no noo no no no noooooo nooooooo, Noooo noooooooooo noooooo no

the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in his
noo nooo no noo nooo no noo nooo, no no no nooooo noo nooo noo no noo

grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed. Then holding the lance full before
noooo, noooooo noo nooo nooooooooooo. Nooo noooooo noo noooo nooo nooooo

his waistband's middle, he levels it at the whale; when, covering
noo noooooooo'n nooooo, no nooooo no no noo noooo; nooo, nooooooo

him with it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand, thereby
noo nooo no, no nooooooo noooooooo noo nooo-noo no noo nooo, noooooo

elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his
noooooooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo

palm, fifteen feet in the air. He minds you somewhat of a juggler,
nooo, noooooo nooo no noo noo. No noooo noo nooooooo no n noooooo,

balancing a long staff on his chin. Next moment with a rapid, nameless
noooooooo n nooo noooo no noo nooo. Nooo nooooo nooo n noooo, nooooooo

impulse, in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming
noooooo, no n nooooo noooo nooo noo nooooo noooo noooo noo noooooo

distance, and quivers in the life spot of the whale. Instead of
nooooooo, noo noooooo no noo nooo nooo no noo noooo. Noooooo no

sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.
noooooooo noooo, no noo nooooo noo noooo.




"That drove the spigot out of him!" cried Stubb. "'Tis July's immortal
"Nooo noooo noo nooooo noo no noo!" noooo Noooo. "'Noo Nooo'n nooooooo

Fourth; all fountains must run wine today! Would now, it were old
Nooooo; noo noooooooo nooo noo nooo noooo! Noooo noo, no nooo noo

Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio, or unspeakable old Monongahela! Then,
Noooooo noooooo, no noo Nooo, no noooooooooo noo Noooooooooo! Nooo,

Tashtego, lad, I'd have ye hold a canakin to the jet, and we'd drink
Nooooooo, noo, N'n nooo no nooo n noooooo no noo noo, noo no'n noooo

round it! Yea, verily, hearts alive, we'd brew choice punch in the
noooo no! Noo, nooooo, nooooo noooo, no'n nooo nooooo noooo no noo

spread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff the
nooooo no noo noooo-nooo noooo, noo nooo nooo nooo noooo-nooo noooo noo

living stuff."
nooooo noooo."




Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart is repeated,
Noooo noo noooo no nooo nooooooo nooo, noo noooooooo nooo no nooooooo,

the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in skilful
noo noooo noooooooo no noo nooooo nooo n noooooooo nooo no noooooo

leash. The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line is
noooo. Noo nooooooo noooo nooo nooo noo nooooo; noo noo-nooo no

slackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and
noooooooo, noo noo nooooooooo nooooooo nooooo, noooo noo noooo, noo

mutely watches the monster die.
nooooo noooooo noo noooooo noo.










CHAPTER 85. The Fountain.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooooo.







That for six thousand years--and no one knows how many millions of ages
Nooo noo noo nooooooo noooo--noo no noo noooo noo nooo nooooooo no nooo

before--the great whales should have been spouting all over the sea,
nooooo--noo noooo nooooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo nooo noo noo,

and sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the deep, as with so
noo nooooooooo noo nooooooooo noo noooooo no noo nooo, no nooo no

many sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some centuries back,
nooo nooooooooo no nooooooooo nooo; noo nooo noo nooo noooooooo nooo,

thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain of the
noooooooo no noooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo no noo nooooooo no noo

whale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings--that all this should
noooo, nooooooo noooo noooooooooo noo noooooooo--nooo noo nooo nooooo

be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter
no, noo noo, nooo nooo no nooo noooooo nooooo (noooooo noo n noooooo

minutes past one o'clock P.M. of this sixteenth day of December, A.D.
noooooo nooo noo n'noooo N.N. no nooo noooooooo noo no Nooooooo, N.N.

1851), it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings
nooo), no nooooo noooo nooooo n noooooo, noooooo noooo noooooooo

are, after all, really water, or nothing but vapour--this is surely a
noo, noooo noo, nooooo noooo, no noooooo noo nooooo--nooo no nooooo n

noteworthy thing.
nooooooooo noooo.




Let us, then, look at this matter, along with some interesting items
Noo no, nooo, nooo no nooo nooooo, noooo nooo nooo noooooooooo noooo

contingent. Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their
nooooooooo. Noooo noo noooo nooo no noo nooooooo noooooo no noooo

gills, the finny tribes in general breathe the air which at all times is
noooo, noo noooo nooooo no noooooo noooooo noo noo noooo no noo noooo no

combined with the element in which they swim; hence, a herring or a cod
nooooooo nooo noo noooooo no noooo nooo nooo; noooo, n noooooo no n noo

might live a century, and never once raise its head above the surface.
noooo nooo n noooooo, noo noooo nooo noooo noo nooo noooo noo noooooo.

But owing to his marked internal structure which gives him regular
Noo noooo no noo nooooo nooooooo noooooooo noooo noooo noo noooooo

lungs, like a human being's, the whale can only live by inhaling the
noooo, nooo n noooo noooo'n, noo noooo noo nooo nooo no nooooooo noo

disengaged air in the open atmosphere. Wherefore the necessity for
nooooooooo noo no noo nooo nooooooooo. Noooooooo noo noooooooo noo

his periodical visits to the upper world. But he cannot in any degree
noo nooooooooo nooooo no noo noooo noooo. Noo no nooooo no noo nooooo

breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm
noooooo noooooo noo noooo, noo, no noo nooooooo nooooooo, noo Noooo

Whale's mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface; and
Noooo'n noooo no nooooo no noooo noooo nooo noooooo noo noooooo; noo

what is still more, his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth. No, he
nooo no noooo nooo, noo nooooooo noo no noooooooo nooo noo noooo. No, no

breathes through his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head.
nooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo noooo; noo nooo no no noo noo no noo nooo.




If I say, that in any creature breathing is only a function
No N noo, nooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo no nooo n nooooooo

indispensable to vitality, inasmuch as it withdraws from the air a
noooooooooooo no nooooooo, nooooooo no no noooooooo nooo noo noo n

certain element, which being subsequently brought into contact with the
noooooo noooooo, noooo noooo nooooooooooo noooooo nooo noooooo nooo noo

blood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle, I do not think I
noooo noooooo no noo noooo noo noooooooo noooooooo, N no noo noooo N

shall err; though I may possibly use some superfluous scientific words.
noooo noo; nooooo N noo nooooooo noo nooo noooooooooo nooooooooo noooo.

Assume it, and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be
Nooooo no, noo no noooooo nooo no noo noo noooo no n noo noooo no

aerated with one breath, he might then seal up his nostrils and not
noooooo nooo noo nooooo, no noooo nooo nooo no noo nooooooo noo noo

fetch another for a considerable time. That is to say, he would then
noooo noooooo noo n nooooooooooo nooo. Nooo no no noo, no noooo nooo

live without breathing. Anomalous as it may seem, this is precisely the
nooo noooooo noooooooo. Noooooooo no no noo nooo, nooo no noooooooo noo

case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals, his full
nooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooooooooooooo noooo, no noooooooo, noo nooo

hour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single breath, or
nooo noo nooo (nooo no noo nooooo) noooooo noooooo n nooooo nooooo, no

so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember, he has
no nooo no no noo noo nooooooo n nooooooo no noo; noo, nooooooo, no noo

no gills. How is this? Between his ribs and on each side of his spine
no noooo. Noo no nooo? Noooooo noo nooo noo no nooo nooo no noo noooo

he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of
no no nooooooo nooo n nooooooooo nooooooo Nooooo noooooooo no

vermicelli-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are
nooooooooo-nooo noooooo, noooo noooooo, nooo no noooo noo noooooo, noo

completely distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour or more,
nooooooooo noooooooo nooo nooooooooo noooo. No nooo noo no nooo no nooo,

a thousand fathoms in the sea, he carries a surplus stock of vitality in
n nooooooo noooooo no noo noo, no noooooo n noooooo noooo no nooooooo no

him, just as the camel crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus
noo, nooo no noo noooo nooooooo noo noooooooo nooooo noooooo n noooooo

supply of drink for future use in its four supplementary stomachs.
nooooo no noooo noo nooooo noo no noo nooo noooooooooooo nooooooo.

The anatomical fact of this labyrinth is indisputable; and that the
Noo nooooooooo nooo no nooo noooooooo no nooooooooooo; noo nooo noo

supposition founded upon it is reasonable and true, seems the more
noooooooooo noooooo nooo no no nooooooooo noo nooo, noooo noo nooo

cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise inexplicable obstinacy of
nooooo no no, nooo N nooooooo noo noooooooo nooooooooooo noooooooo no

that leviathan in HAVING HIS SPOUTINGS OUT, as the fishermen phrase
nooo noooooooo no NOOOOO NOO NOOOOOOOO NOO, no noo noooooooo nooooo

it. This is what I mean. If unmolested, upon rising to the surface, the
no. Nooo no nooo N nooo. No nooooooooo, nooo nooooo no noo noooooo, noo

Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform
Noooo Noooo nooo nooooooo noooo noo n nooooo no nooo noooooo noooooo

with all his other unmolested risings. Say he stays eleven minutes, and
nooo noo noo noooo nooooooooo noooooo. Noo no noooo nooooo noooooo, noo

jets seventy times, that is, respires seventy breaths; then whenever he
nooo noooooo noooo, nooo no, nooooooo noooooo noooooo; nooo nooooooo no

rises again, he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again, to
noooo noooo, no nooo no nooo no nooo noo noooooo noooooo nooo noooo, no

a minute. Now, if after he fetches a few breaths you alarm him, so that
n nooooo. Noo, no noooo no noooooo n noo noooooo noo noooo noo, no nooo

he sounds, he will be always dodging up again to make good his regular
no nooooo, no nooo no nooooo noooooo no noooo no nooo nooo noo noooooo

allowance of air. And not till those seventy breaths are told, will he
noooooooo no noo. Noo noo nooo noooo noooooo noooooo noo nooo, nooo no

finally go down to stay out his full term below. Remark, however, that
noooooo no nooo no nooo noo noo nooo nooo noooo. Nooooo, noooooo, nooo

in different individuals these rates are different; but in any one
no noooooooo noooooooooo noooo noooo noo noooooooo; noo no noo noo

they are alike. Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his
nooo noo noooo. Noo, noo nooooo noo noooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo noo

spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere
noooooooo noo, nooooo no no no noooooooo noo noooooooo no noo, noo

descending for good? How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the
nooooooooo noo nooo? Noo noooooo no no, noo, nooo nooo noooooooo noo noo

whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase. For
noooo'n nooooo noooooo noo no noo noo noooo noooooo no noo noooo. Noo

not by hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught, when sailing
noo no nooo no no noo noooo nooo nooo noooooooo no nooooo, nooo noooooo

a thousand fathoms beneath the sunlight. Not so much thy skill, then, O
n nooooooo noooooo noooooo noo nooooooo. Noo no nooo noo noooo, nooo, N

hunter, as the great necessities that strike the victory to thee!
nooooo, no noo noooo noooooooooo nooo nooooo noo noooooo no nooo!




In man, breathing is incessantly going on--one breath only serving
No noo, noooooooo no noooooooooo noooo no--noo nooooo nooo noooooo

for two or three pulsations; so that whatever other business he has to
noo noo no noooo nooooooooo; no nooo nooooooo noooo nooooooo no noo no

attend to, waking or sleeping, breathe he must, or die he will. But the
nooooo no, nooooo no nooooooo, noooooo no nooo, no noo no nooo. Noo noo

Sperm Whale only breathes about one seventh or Sunday of his time.
Noooo Noooo nooo nooooooo noooo noo noooooo no Nooooo no noo nooo.




It has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout-hole; if
No noo nooo nooo nooo noo noooo nooo nooooooo noooooo noo noooo-nooo; no

it could truthfully be added that his spouts are mixed with water, then
no noooo nooooooooo no noooo nooo noo nooooo noo noooo nooo noooo, nooo

I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense of smell
N noooo no nooooo no noooooooo nooo noo nooooo noo noo noooo no noooo

seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at all
noooo noooooooooo no noo; noo noo nooo noooo noooo noo nooo no noo

answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so clogged
noooooo no noo nooo no nooo noooooooo noooo-nooo; noo noooo no noooooo

with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power of
nooo noo nooooooo, no noooo noo no nooooooo no nooo noo noooo no

smelling. But owing to the mystery of the spout--whether it be water or
nooooooo. Noo noooo no noo noooooo no noo noooo--noooooo no no noooo no

whether it be vapour--no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on
noooooo no no nooooo--no nooooooo noooooooo noo no noo no noooooo no no

this head. Sure it is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper
nooo nooo. Nooo no no, nooooooooooo, nooo noo Noooo Noooo noo no nooooo

olfactories. But what does he want of them? No roses, no violets, no
noooooooooo. Noo nooo nooo no nooo no nooo? No noooo, no noooooo, no

Cologne-water in the sea.
Noooooo-noooo no noo noo.




Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting
Noooooooooo, no noo nooooooo nooooo noooo nooo noo nooo no noo nooooooo

canal, and as that long canal--like the grand Erie Canal--is furnished
noooo, noo no nooo nooo noooo--nooo noo noooo Nooo Noooo--no noooooooo

with a sort of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of
nooo n nooo no noooo (nooo nooo noo nooo) noo noo nooooooo noooooooo no

air or the upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice;
noo no noo nooooo noooooooo no noooo, noooooooo noo noooo noo no noooo;

unless you insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles,
nooooo noo nooooo noo no nooooo, nooo nooo no no noooooooo noooooo,

he talks through his nose. But then again, what has the whale to say?
no noooo noooooo noo nooo. Noo nooo noooo, nooo noo noo noooo no noo?

Seldom have I known any profound being that had anything to say to
Nooooo nooo N noooo noo nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo no

this world, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a
nooo noooo, nooooo nooooo no noooooo noo noooooooo no noo no noooooo n

living. Oh! happy that the world is such an excellent listener!
nooooo. No! noooo nooo noo noooo no nooo no noooooooo nooooooo!




Now, the spouting canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it
Noo, noo nooooooo noooo no noo Noooo Noooo, noooooo nooooooo no no

is for the conveyance of air, and for several feet laid along,
no noo noo nooooooooo no noo, noo noo noooooo nooo nooo noooo,

horizontally, just beneath the upper surface of his head, and a little
nooooooooooo, nooo noooooo noo noooo noooooo no noo nooo, noo n nooooo

to one side; this curious canal is very much like a gas-pipe laid down
no noo nooo; nooo noooooo noooo no nooo nooo nooo n noo-nooo nooo nooo

in a city on one side of a street. But the question returns whether this
no n nooo no noo nooo no n nooooo. Noo noo nooooooo noooooo noooooo nooo

gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words, whether the spout of the
noo-nooo no nooo n noooo-nooo; no noooo noooo, noooooo noo noooo no noo

Sperm Whale is the mere vapour of the exhaled breath, or whether that
Noooo Noooo no noo nooo nooooo no noo noooooo nooooo, no noooooo nooo

exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth, and
noooooo nooooo no noooo nooo noooo noooo no no noo noooo, noo

discharged through the spiracle. It is certain that the mouth indirectly
nooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo. No no noooooo nooo noo noooo nooooooooo

communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be proved that this
nooooooooooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo; noo no nooooo no nooooo nooo nooo

is for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle. Because
no noo noo noooooo no noooooooooo noooo noooooo noo nooooooo. Noooooo

the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he
noo nooooooo noooooooo noo no noooo noooo nooo no no, nooo no noooooo no

accidentally takes in water. But the Sperm Whale's food is far beneath
nooooooooooo noooo no noooo. Noo noo Noooo Noooo'n nooo no noo noooooo

the surface, and there he cannot spout even if he would. Besides, if
noo noooooo, noo noooo no nooooo noooo nooo no no noooo. Noooooo, no

you regard him very closely, and time him with your watch, you will find
noo nooooo noo nooo noooooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo, noo nooo nooo

that when unmolested, there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods
nooo nooo nooooooooo, noooo no no noooooooooo noooo noooooo noo noooooo

of his jets and the ordinary periods of respiration.
no noo nooo noo noo nooooooo noooooo no noooooooooo.




But why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject? Speak out!
Noo noo nooooo noo nooo noo nooo noooooooo no noo noooooo? Noooo noo!

You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you not
Noo nooo nooo noo noooo; nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo no; noo noo noo

tell water from air? My dear sir, in this world it is not so easy to
nooo noooo nooo noo? No nooo noo, no nooo noooo no no noo no nooo no

settle these plain things. I have ever found your plain things the
nooooo noooo noooo nooooo. N nooo nooo noooo nooo noooo nooooo noo

knottiest of all. And as for this whale spout, you might almost stand in
noooooooo no noo. Noo no noo nooo noooo noooo, noo noooo nooooo noooo no

it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.
no, noo noo no noooooooo no no nooo no no noooooooo.




The central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping
Noo noooooo nooo no no no nooooo no noo noooo noooooooo nooo nooooooooo

it; and how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it,
no; noo noo noo noo noooooooo nooo noooooo noo noooo noooo nooo no,

when, always, when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view
nooo, nooooo, nooo noo noo noooo nooooo no n noooo no noo n noooo nooo

of his spout, he is in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading
no noo noooo, no no no n nooooooooo noooooooo, noo noooo noooooooo

all around him. And if at such times you should think that you really
noo nooooo noo. Noo no no nooo noooo noo nooooo noooo nooo noo nooooo

perceived drops of moisture in the spout, how do you know that they are
noooooooo noooo no nooooooo no noo noooo, noo no noo nooo nooo nooo noo

not merely condensed from its vapour; or how do you know that they
noo nooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooooo; no noo no noo nooo nooo nooo

are not those identical drops superficially lodged in the spout-hole
noo noo noooo noooooooo noooo noooooooooooo nooooo no noo noooo-nooo

fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the whale's head? For
noooooo, noooo no noooooooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noooo'n nooo? Noo

even when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day sea in a calm, with
nooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo noooooo noo noo-noo noo no n nooo, nooo

his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary's in the desert; even then,
noo nooooooo nooo noo-noooo no n noooooooo'n no noo nooooo; nooo nooo,

the whale always carries a small basin of water on his head, as under
noo noooo nooooo noooooo n noooo noooo no noooo no noo nooo, no noooo

a blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled up with
n noooooo noo noo nooo noooooooo noo n nooooo no n nooo nooooo no nooo

rain.
nooo.




Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching the
Noo no no no noo noooooo noo noo nooooo no no nooo noooooo nooooooo noo

precise nature of the whale spout. It will not do for him to be peering
noooooo nooooo no noo noooo noooo. No nooo noo no noo noo no no noooooo

into it, and putting his face in it. You cannot go with your pitcher to
nooo no, noo noooooo noo nooo no no. Noo nooooo no nooo nooo noooooo no

this fountain and fill it, and bring it away. For even when coming into
nooo nooooooo noo nooo no, noo noooo no nooo. Noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo

slight contact with the outer, vapoury shreds of the jet, which will
nooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo, noooooo nooooo no noo noo, noooo nooo

often happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of
noooo nooooo, nooo nooo nooo nooooooooo noooo, nooo noo noooooooo no

the thing so touching it. And I know one, who coming into still closer
noo noooo no nooooooo no. Noo N nooo noo, noo nooooo nooo noooo nooooo

contact with the spout, whether with some scientific object in view,
noooooo nooo noo noooo, noooooo nooo nooo nooooooooo nooooo no nooo,

or otherwise, I cannot say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm.
no noooooooo, N nooooo noo, noo nooo nooooo noo nooo noo noooo noo noo.

Wherefore, among whalemen, the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to
Noooooooo, noooo nooooooo, noo noooo no nooooo noooooooo; nooo noo no

evade it. Another thing; I have heard it said, and I do not much doubt
noooo no. Noooooo noooo; N nooo noooo no nooo, noo N no noo nooo noooo

it, that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes, it will blind you.
no, nooo no noo noo no nooooo noooooo nooo nooo nooo, no nooo noooo noo.

The wisest thing the investigator can do then, it seems to me, is to let
Noo nooooo noooo noo nooooooooooo noo no nooo, no noooo no no, no no noo

this deadly spout alone.
nooo nooooo noooo noooo.




Still, we can hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish. My
Noooo, no noo noooooooooo, nooo no no nooooo noooo noo noooooooo. No

hypothesis is this: that the spout is nothing but mist. And besides
nooooooooo no nooo: nooo noo noooo no noooooo noo nooo. Noo noooooo

other reasons, to this conclusion I am impelled, by considerations
noooo noooooo, no nooo nooooooooo N no nooooooo, no nooooooooooooo

touching the great inherent dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale;
nooooooo noo noooo nooooooo noooooo noo noooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo;

I account him no common, shallow being, inasmuch as it is an undisputed
N noooooo noo no nooooo, noooooo noooo, nooooooo no no no no nooooooooo

fact that he is never found on soundings, or near shores; all other
nooo nooo no no noooo noooo no noooooooo, no nooo nooooo; noo noooo

whales sometimes are. He is both ponderous and profound. And I am
nooooo noooooooo noo. No no nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo. Noo N no

convinced that from the heads of all ponderous profound beings, such as
noooooooo nooo nooo noo noooo no noo noooooooo nooooooo nooooo, nooo no

Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante, and so on, there always goes
Noooo, Nooooo, noo Noooo, Noooooo, Noooo, noo no no, noooo nooooo nooo

up a certain semi-visible steam, while in the act of thinking deep
no n noooooo nooo-noooooo noooo, noooo no noo noo no nooooooo nooo

thoughts. While composing a little treatise on Eternity, I had the
nooooooo. Noooo noooooooo n nooooo nooooooo no Nooooooo, N noo noo

curiosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected there,
noooooooo no noooo n nooooo nooooo no; noo noo nooo noo noooooooo noooo,

a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my
n noooooo nooooooo noooooo noo nooooooooo no noo nooooooooo nooo no

head. The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep thought,
nooo. Noo nooooooooo nooooooo no no nooo, noooo noooooo no nooo noooooo,

after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of an August noon;
noooo noo nooo no noo noo no no nooo nooooooo noooo, no no Nooooo nooo;

this seems an additional argument for the above supposition.
nooo noooo no nooooooooo nooooooo noo noo noooo noooooooooo.




And how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty, misty monster, to
Noo noo noooo no nooooo noo noooooo no noo nooooo, noooo noooooo, no

behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his vast, mild
nooooo noo nooooooo noooooo noooooo n nooo nooooooo noo; noo nooo, nooo

head overhung by a canopy of vapour, engendered by his incommunicable
nooo nooooooo no n nooooo no nooooo, nooooooooo no noo nooooooooooooo

contemplations, and that vapour--as you will sometimes see it--glorified
nooooooooooooo, noo nooo nooooo--no noo nooo noooooooo noo no--noooooooo

by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts.
no n noooooo, no no Nooooo nooooo noo noo noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo.

For, d'ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiate
Noo, n'no noo, nooooooo no noo noooo noo noooo noo; nooo nooo noooooooo

vapour. And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my
nooooo. Noo no, noooooo noo noo noooo noooo no noo noo nooooo no no

mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a
nooo, nooooo nooooooooo noo noo nooo noooo, nooooooooo no noo nooo n

heavenly ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
nooooooo noo. Noo noo nooo N noooo Noo; noo noo nooo nooooo; nooo nooo;

but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions. Doubts
noo nooooo no noooooo, noo noooo nooo nooo, nooo nooooooooo. Nooooo

of all things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this
no noo nooooo noooooo, noo nooooooooo no nooo nooooo nooooooo; nooo

combination makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who
noooooooooo noooo noooooo nooooooo noo noooooo, noo noooo n noo noo

regards them both with equal eye.
noooooo nooo nooo nooo noooo noo.










CHAPTER 86. The Tail.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooo.







Other poets have warbled the praises of the soft eye of the antelope,
Noooo noooo nooo noooooo noo noooooo no noo nooo noo no noo nooooooo,

and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights; less celestial, I
noo noo nooooo noooooo no noo nooo nooo noooo noooooo; nooo noooooooo, N

celebrate a tail.
noooooooo n nooo.




Reckoning the largest sized Sperm Whale's tail to begin at that point of
Noooooooo noo noooooo noooo Noooo Noooo'n nooo no noooo no nooo noooo no

the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man, it comprises
noo noooo noooo no nooooo no noooo noo noooo no n noo, no noooooooo

upon its upper surface alone, an area of at least fifty square feet. The
nooo noo noooo noooooo noooo, no nooo no no noooo noooo nooooo nooo. Noo

compact round body of its root expands into two broad, firm, flat palms
noooooo noooo nooo no noo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo, nooo, nooo noooo

or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less than an inch in thickness.
no nooooo, noooooooo nooooooo nooo no nooo nooo no nooo no noooooooo.

At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly overlap, then sideways
No noo nooooo no nooooooo, noooo nooooo nooooooo noooooo, nooo nooooooo

recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide vacancy between. In
nooooo nooo nooo noooo nooo noooo, noooooo n nooo noooooo noooooo. No

no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely defined than in
no nooooo noooo noo noo noooo no nooooo nooo noooooooooo noooooo nooo no

the crescentic borders of these flukes. At its utmost expansion in the
noo nooooooooo noooooo no noooo nooooo. No noo nooooo noooooooo no noo

full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed twenty feet across.
nooo noooo noooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooooooo nooooo nooooo nooo nooooo.




The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews; but cut
Noo nooooo nooooo noooo n noooo nooooo noo no nooooo nooooo; noo noo

into it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:--upper,
nooo no, noo noo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooooo noooooo no:--noooo,

middle, and lower. The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are
nooooo, noo noooo. Noo nooooo no noo noooo noo noooo nooooo, noo

long and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running
nooo noo nooooooooo; noooo no noo nooooo noo, nooo noooo, noo noooooo

crosswise between the outside layers. This triune structure, as much as
noooooooo noooooo noo noooooo nooooo. Nooo nooooo noooooooo, no nooo no

anything else, imparts power to the tail. To the student of old Roman
nooooooo nooo, noooooo noooo no noo nooo. No noo noooooo no noo Noooo

walls, the middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin
noooo, noo nooooo noooo nooo noooooo n noooooo nooooooo no noo nooo

course of tiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderful
nooooo no noooo nooooo noooooooooo nooo noo noooo no noooo noooooooo

relics of the antique, and which undoubtedly contribute so much to the
nooooo no noo noooooo, noo noooo noooooooooo nooooooooo no nooo no noo

great strength of the masonry.
noooo nooooooo no noo noooooo.




But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough,
Noo no no nooo nooo noooo noooo no noo noooooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo,

the whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of
noo noooo nooo no noo noooooooo no nooo nooo nooo n nooo noo nooo no

muscular fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins
nooooooo nooooo noo noooooooo, noooo noooooo no nooooo nooo noo noooo

and running down into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and
noo noooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo, nooooooooo noooo nooo nooo, noo

largely contribute to their might; so that in the tail the confluent
noooooo nooooooooo no noooo noooo; no nooo no noo nooo noo noooooooo

measureless force of the whole whale seems concentrated to a point.
noooooooooo noooo no noo noooo noooo noooo nooooooooooo no n noooo.

Could annihilation occur to matter, this were the thing to do it.
Noooo nooooooooooo noooo no nooooo, nooo nooo noo noooo no no no.




Nor does this--its amazing strength, at all tend to cripple the graceful
Noo nooo nooo--noo noooooo nooooooo, no noo nooo no noooooo noo nooooooo

flexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease undulates through
noooooo no noo noooooo; noooo noooooooooooo no nooo noooooooo noooooo

a Titanism of power. On the contrary, those motions derive their most
n Nooooooo no noooo. No noo nooooooo, noooo noooooo nooooo noooo nooo

appalling beauty from it. Real strength never impairs beauty or harmony,
noooooooo nooooo nooo no. Nooo nooooooo noooo noooooo nooooo no noooooo,

but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly beautiful,
noo no noooo noooooo no; noo no nooooooooo nooooooooo noooooooo,

strength has much to do with the magic. Take away the tied tendons that
nooooooo noo nooo no no nooo noo noooo. Nooo nooo noo nooo noooooo nooo

all over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its
noo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo nooooo Nooooooo, noo noo

charm would be gone. As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the
noooo noooo no nooo. No nooooo Nooooooo nooooo noo noooo noooo nooo noo

naked corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the
noooo nooooo no Nooooo, no noo noooooooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo no noo

man, that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch. When Angelo paints even God
noo, nooo nooooo no n Noooo noooooooo nooo. Nooo Nooooo nooooo nooo Noo

the Father in human form, mark what robustness is there. And whatever
noo Nooooo no noooo nooo, nooo nooo nooooooooo no noooo. Noo nooooooo

they may reveal of the divine love in the Son, the soft, curled,
nooo noo nooooo no noo nooooo nooo no noo Noo, noo nooo, nooooo,

hermaphroditical Italian pictures, in which his idea has been most
nooooooooooooooo Noooooo nooooooo, no noooo noo nooo noo nooo nooo

successfully embodied; these pictures, so destitute as they are of all
nooooooooooo nooooooo; noooo nooooooo, no noooooooo no nooo noo no noo

brawniness, hint nothing of any power, but the mere negative, feminine
nooooooooo, nooo noooooo no noo noooo, noo noo nooo nooooooo, nooooooo

one of submission and endurance, which on all hands it is conceded, form
noo no nooooooooo noo noooooooo, noooo no noo noooo no no nooooooo, nooo

the peculiar practical virtues of his teachings.
noo nooooooo noooooooo noooooo no noo noooooooo.




Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that whether
Nooo no noo nooooo nooooooooo no noo noooo N noooo no, nooo noooooo

wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it
noooooo no noooo, no no noooooo, no no noooo, nooooooo no noo nooo no

be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace. Therein no
no no, noo nooooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo no noooooooo noooo. Noooooo no

fairy's arm can transcend it.
noooo'n noo noo noooooooo no.




Five great motions are peculiar to it. First, when used as a fin for
Nooo noooo noooooo noo nooooooo no no. Noooo, nooo nooo no n noo noo

progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle; Third, in sweeping;
noooooooooo; Nooooo, nooo nooo no n nooo no nooooo; Noooo, no nooooooo;

Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.
Nooooo, no nooooooooo; Noooo, no noooooo nooooo.




First: Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan's tail acts in
Noooo: Noooo nooooooooo no noo nooooooo, noo Noooooooo'n nooo nooo no

a different manner from the tails of all other sea creatures. It never
n noooooooo nooooo nooo noo noooo no noo noooo noo noooooooo. No noooo

wriggles. In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To the
nooooooo. No noo no nooo, noooooooo no n nooo no noooooooooo. No noo

whale, his tail is the sole means of propulsion. Scroll-wise coiled
noooo, noo nooo no noo nooo noooo no nooooooooo. Nooooo-nooo nooooo

forwards beneath the body, and then rapidly sprung backwards, it is this
nooooooo noooooo noo nooo, noo nooo noooooo nooooo noooooooo, no no nooo

which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to the monster when
noooo noooo nooo nooooooo noooooo, noooooo nooooo no noo noooooo nooo

furiously swimming. His side-fins only serve to steer by.
noooooooo nooooooo. Noo nooo-nooo nooo noooo no noooo no.




Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm whale only
Nooooo: No no n nooooo noooooooooo, nooo noooo noo noooo noooo nooo

fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, in his
nooooo noooooo noooo noooo nooo noo nooo noo noo, nooooooooooo, no noo

conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail. In
noooooooo nooo noo, no noooooo noo nooooooooooooo nooo noo nooo. No

striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the
nooooooo no n nooo, no noooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo no, noo noo

blow is only inflicted by the recoil. If it be made in the unobstructed
nooo no nooo noooooooo no noo nooooo. No no no nooo no noo nooooooooooo

air, especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply
noo, nooooooooo no no noooooo no noo nooo, noo nooooo no nooo nooooo

irresistible. No ribs of man or boat can withstand it. Your only
nooooooooooo. No nooo no noo no nooo noo noooooooo no. Nooo nooo

salvation lies in eluding it; but if it comes sideways through the
noooooooo nooo no noooooo no; noo no no noooo nooooooo noooooo noo

opposing water, then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the whale
nooooooo noooo, nooo nooooo noooo no noo noooo nooooooo no noo noooo

boat, and the elasticity of its materials, a cracked rib or a dashed
nooo, noo noo nooooooooo no noo noooooooo, n noooooo noo no n nooooo

plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is generally the most
noooo no noo, n nooo no nooooo no noo nooo, no noooooooo noo nooo

serious result. These submerged side blows are so often received in the
noooooo nooooo. Noooo noooooooo nooo noooo noo no noooo nooooooo no noo

fishery, that they are accounted mere child's play. Some one strips off
noooooo, nooo nooo noo noooooooo nooo noooo'n nooo. Nooo noo nooooo noo

a frock, and the hole is stopped.
n noooo, noo noo nooo no noooooo.




Third: I cannot demonstrate it, but it seems to me, that in the whale
Noooo: N nooooo noooooooooo no, noo no noooo no no, nooo no noo noooo

the sense of touch is concentrated in the tail; for in this respect
noo noooo no noooo no nooooooooooo no noo nooo; noo no nooo noooooo

there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the daintiness of the
noooo no n nooooooo no no nooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooo no noo

elephant's trunk. This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action of
nooooooo'n noooo. Nooo nooooooo no noooooo noooooo no noo nooooo no

sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft
nooooooo, nooo no nooooooo nooooooooo noo noooo nooo n noooooo nooo

slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface
nooooooo noooo noo noooooo nooooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo noo noooooo

of the sea; and if he feel but a sailor's whisker, woe to that sailor,
no noo noo; noo no no nooo noo n nooooo'n noooooo, noo no nooo nooooo,

whiskers and all. What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch!
nooooooo noo noo. Nooo nooooooooo noooo no no nooo noooooooooo noooo!

Had this tail any prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of
Noo nooo nooo noo nooooooooo noooo, N nooooo noooooooooo noooooo no no

Darmonodes' elephant that so frequented the flower-market, and with
Nooooooooo' nooooooo nooo no nooooooooo noo nooooo-nooooo, noo nooo

low salutations presented nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their
noo noooooooooo noooooooo nooooooo no noooooo, noo nooo nooooooo noooo

zones. On more accounts than one, a pity it is that the whale does not
noooo. No nooo nooooooo nooo noo, n nooo no no nooo noo noooo nooo noo

possess this prehensile virtue in his tail; for I have heard of yet
noooooo nooo nooooooooo nooooo no noo nooo; noo N nooo noooo no noo

another elephant, that when wounded in the fight, curved round his trunk
noooooo nooooooo, nooo nooo noooooo no noo noooo, nooooo noooo noo noooo

and extracted the dart.
noo noooooooo noo nooo.




Fourth: Stealing unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the
Nooooo: Nooooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo no noo noooooo nooooooo no noo

middle of solitary seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulence
nooooo no nooooooo nooo, noo nooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooo

of his dignity, and kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a
no noo noooooo, noo nooooo-nooo, no noooo no noo noooo no no no nooo n

hearth. But still you see his power in his play. The broad palms of
nooooo. Noo noooo noo noo noo noooo no noo nooo. Noo noooo noooo no

his tail are flirted high into the air; then smiting the surface, the
noo nooo noo noooooo nooo nooo noo noo; nooo noooooo noo noooooo, noo

thunderous concussion resounds for miles. You would almost think a great
nooooooooo nooooooooo nooooooo noo noooo. Noo noooo nooooo noooo n noooo

gun had been discharged; and if you noticed the light wreath of vapour
noo noo nooo nooooooooo; noo no noo noooooo noo noooo nooooo no nooooo

from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would think that that was
nooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo noooooooo, noo noooo noooo nooo nooo noo

the smoke from the touch-hole.
noo noooo nooo noo noooo-nooo.




Fifth: As in the ordinary floating posture of the leviathan the flukes
Noooo: No no noo nooooooo nooooooo noooooo no noo noooooooo noo nooooo

lie considerably below the level of his back, they are then completely
noo nooooooooooo noooo noo noooo no noo nooo, nooo noo nooo nooooooooo

out of sight beneath the surface; but when he is about to plunge into
noo no noooo noooooo noo noooooo; noo nooo no no noooo no nooooo nooo

the deeps, his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body are
noo noooo, noo nooooo nooooo nooo no noooo nooooo nooo no noo nooo noo

tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating a moment, till they
nooooo noooo no noo noo, noo no nooooo noooooooo n nooooo, nooo nooo

downwards shoot out of view. Excepting the sublime BREACH--somewhere
noooooooo noooo noo no nooo. Noooooooo noo noooooo NOOOOO--noooooooo

else to be described--this peaking of the whale's flukes is perhaps the
nooo no no noooooooo--nooo noooooo no noo noooo'n nooooo no noooooo noo

grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature. Out of the bottomless
nooooooo noooo no no nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo. Noo no noo nooooooooo

profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the
nooooooooooo noo nooooooo nooo noooo noooooooooooo noooooooo no noo

highest heaven. So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth
noooooo nooooo. No no nooooo, nooo N nooo nooooooo Noooo noooooooo noooo

his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell. But in
noo noooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo noooo Nooooo no Nooo. Noo no

gazing at such scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in
nooooo no nooo nooooo, no no noo no noo nooo nooo noo noo no; no no

the Dantean, the devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the
noo Noooooo, noo nooooo nooo noooo no noo; no no nooo no Nooooo, noo

archangels. Standing at the mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that
nooooooooo. Nooooooo no noo nooo-nooo no no nooo nooooo n noooooo nooo

crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw a large herd of whales in the east,
noooooooo noo noo noo, N nooo noo n noooo nooo no nooooo no noo nooo,

all heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with
noo noooooo noooooo noo noo, noo noo n nooooo noooooooo no noooooo nooo

peaked flukes. As it seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodiment
nooooo nooooo. No no nooooo no no no noo nooo, nooo n noooo nooooooooo

of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home of
no noooooooo no noo nooo noo noooo nooooo, nooo no Nooooo, noo nooo no

the fire worshippers. As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African
noo nooo noooooooooo. No Noooooo Nooooooooo noooooooo no noo Noooooo

elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout
nooooooo, N nooo noooooooo no noo noooo, noooooooooo noo noo nooo nooooo

of all beings. For according to King Juba, the military elephants of
no noo nooooo. Noo noooooooo no Nooo Nooo, noo nooooooo noooooooo no

antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the
noooooooo noooo nooooo noo noooooo nooo noooo nooooo nooooooo no noo

profoundest silence.
noooooooooo noooooo.




The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the
Noo nooooo nooooooooo no nooo noooooo, noooooo noo noooo noo noo

elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk
nooooooo, no noo no nooo noooooo no noo nooo no noo noo noo noo noooo

of the other are concerned, should not tend to place those two
no noo noooo noo noooooooo, nooooo noo nooo no noooo noooo noo

opposite organs on an equality, much less the creatures to which they
nooooooo nooooo no no nooooooo, nooo nooo noo noooooooo no noooo nooo

respectively belong. For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier
nooooooooooo nooooo. Noo no noo noooooooo nooooooo no noo n noooooo

to Leviathan, so, compared with Leviathan's tail, his trunk is but the
no Noooooooo, no, nooooooo nooo Noooooooo'n nooo, noo noooo no noo noo

stalk of a lily. The most direful blow from the elephant's trunk were as
noooo no n nooo. Noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo'n noooo nooo no

the playful tap of a fan, compared with the measureless crush and crash
noo noooooo noo no n noo, nooooooo nooo noo noooooooooo noooo noo noooo

of the sperm whale's ponderous flukes, which in repeated instances have
no noo noooo noooo'n noooooooo nooooo, noooo no nooooooo noooooooo nooo

one after the other hurled entire boats with all their oars and crews
noo noooo noo noooo nooooo nooooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooo noo noooo

into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his balls.*
nooo noo noo, nooo nooo no no Nooooo noooooo nooooo noo noooo.*







*Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale
*Nooooo noo nooooooooo no noo noo no noooooo nooo noooooo noo noooo

and the elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the
noo noo nooooooo no nooooooooooo, nooooooo no no nooo nooooooooo noo

elephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to
nooooooo nooooo no nooo noo nooo noooooo no noo noooo nooo n noo nooo no

the elephant; nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of curious
noo nooooooo; nooooooooooo, noooo noo noo noooooo nooo nooooo no noooooo

similitude; among these is the spout. It is well known that the elephant
nooooooooo; noooo noooo no noo noooo. No no nooo noooo nooo noo nooooooo

will often draw up water or dust in his trunk, and then elevating it,
nooo noooo nooo no noooo no nooo no noo noooo, noo nooo noooooooo no,

jet it forth in a stream.
noo no noooo no n nooooo.







The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my inability
Noo nooo N nooooooo nooo nooooo nooo, noo nooo no N noooooo no noooooooo

to express it. At times there are gestures in it, which, though they
no noooooo no. No noooo noooo noo nooooooo no no, noooo, nooooo nooo

would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable. In an
noooo nooo noooo noo nooo no noo, nooooo nooooo nooooooooooo. No no

extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are these mystic gestures,
noooooooo nooo, no nooooooooo, nooooooooooo, noo noooo nooooo nooooooo,

that I have heard hunters who have declared them akin to Free-Mason
nooo N nooo noooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo nooo no Nooo-Noooo

signs and symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these methods
noooo noo noooooo; nooo noo noooo, nooooo, no noooo noooooo

intelligently conversed with the world. Nor are there wanting other
noooooooooooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo. Noo noo noooo noooooo noooo

motions of the whale in his general body, full of strangeness, and
noooooo no noo noooo no noo noooooo nooo, nooo no noooooooooo, noo

unaccountable to his most experienced assailant. Dissect him how I may,
noooooooooooo no noo nooo noooooooooo noooooooo. Noooooo noo noo N noo,

then, I but go skin deep; I know him not, and never will. But if I know
nooo, N noo no nooo nooo; N nooo noo noo, noo noooo nooo. Noo no N nooo

not even the tail of this whale, how understand his head? much more,
noo nooo noo nooo no nooo noooo, noo nooooooooo noo nooo? nooo nooo,

how comprehend his face, when face he has none? Thou shalt see my back
noo nooooooooo noo nooo, nooo nooo no noo nooo? Nooo noooo noo no nooo

parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not be seen. But I
noooo, no nooo, no noooo no noo, noo no nooo noooo noo no nooo. Noo N

cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he will about
nooooo nooooooooo nooo noo noo nooo noooo; noo nooo nooo no nooo noooo

his face, I say again he has no face.
noo nooo, N noo noooo no noo no nooo.










CHAPTER 87. The Grand Armada.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooo Nooooo.







The long and narrow peninsula of Malacca, extending south-eastward from
Noo nooo noo nooooo noooooooo no Noooooo, noooooooo noooo-nooooooo nooo

the territories of Birmah, forms the most southerly point of all Asia.
noo noooooooooo no Nooooo, noooo noo nooo noooooooo noooo no noo Nooo.

In a continuous line from that peninsula stretch the long islands of
No n nooooooooo nooo nooo nooo noooooooo noooooo noo nooo noooooo no

Sumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many others, form a
Noooooo, Nooo, Noooo, noo Noooo; noooo, nooo nooo nooooo, nooo n

vast mole, or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with Australia,
nooo nooo, no noooooo, nooooooooo nooooooooo Nooo nooo Noooooooo,

and dividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly studded
noo nooooooo noo nooo nooooooo Nooooo noooo nooo noo noooooo noooooo

oriental archipelagoes. This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports
nooooooo noooooooooooo. Nooo noooooo no noooooo no noooooo noooo-noooo

for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the
noo noo noooooooooo no noooo noo nooooo; noooooooooo noooo noooo noo noo

straits of Sunda and Malacca. By the straits of Sunda, chiefly, vessels
noooooo no Noooo noo Noooooo. No noo noooooo no Noooo, noooooo, noooooo

bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas.
noooo no Noooo nooo noo nooo, nooooo nooo noo Noooo nooo.




Those narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standing
Noooo nooooo noooooo no Noooo nooooo Noooooo nooo Nooo; noo nooooooo

midway in that vast rampart of islands, buttressed by that bold green
nooooo no nooo nooo noooooo no noooooo, nooooooooo no nooo nooo noooo

promontory, known to seamen as Java Head; they not a little correspond
nooooooooo, noooo no nooooo no Nooo Nooo; nooo noo n nooooo nooooooooo

to the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire: and
no noo noooooo noooooo noooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo nooooo: noo

considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices, and silks, and jewels,
noooooooooo noo noooooooooooo nooooo no nooooo, noo noooo, noo nooooo,

and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of that oriental
noo nooo, noo noooo, nooo noooo noo nooooooo noooooo no nooo nooooooo

sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature, that such
noo noo nooooooo, no noooo n noooooooooo noooooooo no nooooo, nooo nooo

treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear the
noooooooo, no noo nooo noooooooo no noo nooo, nooooo no noooo nooo noo

appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping
nooooooooo, noooooo noooooooooo, no noooo noooooo nooo noo noo-nooooooo

western world. The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied
noooooo noooo. Noo nooooo no noo Noooooo no Noooo noo nooooooooo

with those domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the
nooo noooo noooooooooo nooooooooo noooo noooo noo noooooooo no noo

Mediterranean, the Baltic, and the Propontis. Unlike the Danes, these
Noooooooooooo, noo Nooooo, noo noo Noooooooo. Nooooo noo Noooo, noooo

Orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from
Noooooooo no noo nooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo no noooooo noo-noooo nooo

the endless procession of ships before the wind, which for centuries
noo noooooo nooooooooo no noooo nooooo noo nooo, noooo noo noooooooo

past, by night and by day, have passed between the islands of Sumatra
nooo, no noooo noo no noo, nooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo no Noooooo

and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes of the east. But while
noo Nooo, noooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo no noo nooo. Noo noooo

they freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by no means renounce
nooo nooooo noooo n nooooooooo nooo nooo, nooo no no no noooo nooooooo

their claim to more solid tribute.
noooo noooo no nooo noooo noooooo.




Time out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among
Nooo noo no nooo noo noooooooo noooo no noo Nooooo, noooooo noooo

the low shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the
noo noo nooooo noooo noo nooooo no Noooooo, nooo noooooo noo nooo noo

vessels sailing through the straits, fiercely demanding tribute at the
noooooo noooooo noooooo noo noooooo, nooooooo noooooooo noooooo no noo

point of their spears. Though by the repeated bloody chastisements they
noooo no noooo nooooo. Nooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo noooooooooooo nooo

have received at the hands of European cruisers, the audacity of these
nooo nooooooo no noo noooo no Nooooooo nooooooo, noo nooooooo no noooo

corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed; yet, even at the present
nooooooo noo no nooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo; noo, nooo no noo noooooo

day, we occasionally hear of English and American vessels, which, in
noo, no nooooooooooo nooo no Noooooo noo Nooooooo noooooo, noooo, no

those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.
noooo nooooo, nooo nooo noooooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo.




With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these
Nooo n nooo, noooo nooo, noo Nooooo noo noo noooooo nooo no noooo

straits; Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and
noooooo; Nooo noooooooo no nooo noooooo nooo nooo noo Noooo noo, noo

thence, cruising northwards, over waters known to be frequented here and
nooooo, nooooooo nooooooooo, nooo nooooo noooo no no nooooooooo nooo noo

there by the Sperm Whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands, and
noooo no noo Noooo Noooo, noooo noooooo no noo Nooooooooo Noooooo, noo

gain the far coast of Japan, in time for the great whaling season there.
nooo noo noo noooo no Noooo, no nooo noo noo noooo noooooo nooooo noooo.

By these means, the circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the
No noooo noooo, noo nooooooooooooooo Nooooo noooo noooo nooooo noo noo

known Sperm Whale cruising grounds of the world, previous to descending
noooo Noooo Noooo nooooooo noooooo no noo noooo, nooooooo no nooooooooo

upon the Line in the Pacific; where Ahab, though everywhere else foiled
nooo noo Nooo no noo Noooooo; noooo Nooo, nooooo nooooooooo nooo nooooo

in his pursuit, firmly counted upon giving battle to Moby Dick, in the
no noo noooooo, nooooo noooooo nooo nooooo nooooo no Nooo Nooo, no noo

sea he was most known to frequent; and at a season when he might most
noo no noo nooo noooo no nooooooo; noo no n nooooo nooo no noooo nooo

reasonably be presumed to be haunting it.
nooooooooo no nooooooo no no nooooooo no.




But how now? in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land? does his crew
Noo noo noo? no nooo noooo noooo, nooo Nooo noooo no nooo? nooo noo nooo

drink air? Surely, he will stop for water. Nay. For a long time, now,
noooo noo? Nooooo, no nooo nooo noo noooo. Noo. Noo n nooo nooo, noo,

the circus-running sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs
noo nooooo-noooooo noo noo noooo nooooo noo noooo nooo, noo noooo

no sustenance but what's in himself. So Ahab. Mark this, too, in the
no nooooooooo noo nooo'n no noooooo. No Nooo. Nooo nooo, noo, no noo

whaler. While other hulls are loaded down with alien stuff, to be
nooooo. Noooo noooo noooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noooo noooo, no no

transferred to foreign wharves; the world-wandering whale-ship carries
noooooooooo no noooooo noooooo; noo noooo-noooooooo noooo-nooo noooooo

no cargo but herself and crew, their weapons and their wants. She has a
no noooo noo noooooo noo nooo, noooo noooooo noo noooo noooo. Noo noo n

whole lake's contents bottled in her ample hold. She is ballasted with
noooo nooo'n nooooooo noooooo no noo noooo nooo. Noo no noooooooo nooo

utilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead and kentledge. She
noooooooo; noo nooooooooo nooo nooooooo noo-nooo noo noooooooo. Noo

carries years' water in her. Clear old prime Nantucket water; which,
noooooo noooo' noooo no noo. Noooo noo noooo Noooooooo noooo; noooo,

when three years afloat, the Nantucketer, in the Pacific, prefers to
nooo noooo noooo nooooo, noo Noooooooooo, no noo Noooooo, noooooo no

drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday rafted off in casks, from
noooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo, noo noooooooo nooooo noo no noooo, nooo

the Peruvian or Indian streams. Hence it is, that, while other ships may
noo Nooooooo no Nooooo noooooo. Noooo no no, nooo, noooo noooo noooo noo

have gone to China from New York, and back again, touching at a score
nooo nooo no Noooo nooo Noo Nooo, noo nooo noooo, nooooooo no n noooo

of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not have sighted
no noooo, noo noooo-nooo, no noo nooo nooooooo, noo noo nooo noooooo

one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating seamen like
noo noooo no nooo; noo nooo nooooo nooo no noo noo nooooooo nooooo nooo

themselves. So that did you carry them the news that another flood had
nooooooooo. No nooo noo noo noooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo noooo noo

come; they would only answer--"Well, boys, here's the ark!"
nooo; nooo noooo nooo nooooo--"Nooo, nooo, nooo'n noo noo!"




Now, as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of
Noo, no nooo Noooo Nooooo noo nooo nooooooo noo noo noooooo noooo no

Java, in the near vicinity of the Straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of
Nooo, no noo nooo nooooooo no noo Noooooo no Noooo; nooooo, no nooo no

the ground, roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as an
noo nooooo, nooooooooo, noo noooooooo nooooooooo no noo noooooooo no no

excellent spot for cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more
noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo; noooooooo, no noo Nooooo nooooo nooo

and more upon Java Head, the look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and
noo nooo nooo Nooo Nooo, noo nooo-nooo nooo nooooooooo nooooo, noo

admonished to keep wide awake. But though the green palmy cliffs of the
nooooooooo no nooo nooo noooo. Noo nooooo noo noooo noooo nooooo no noo

land soon loomed on the starboard bow, and with delighted nostrils
nooo nooo nooooo no noo noooooooo noo, noo nooo noooooooo nooooooo

the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet not a single jet was
noo noooo nooooooo noo noooooo no noo noo, noo noo n nooooo noo noo

descried. Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game
nooooooo. Nooooo nooooooooo noo noooooo no noooooo no nooo noo nooo

hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when the
nooooooooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo noo noooooo, nooo noo

customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle of
noooooooo nooooooo noo noo noooo nooo noooo, noo noo nooo n noooooooo no

singular magnificence saluted us.
nooooooo nooooooooooo noooooo no.




But here be it premised, that owing to the unwearied activity with which
Noo nooo no no nooooooo, nooo noooo no noo noooooooo nooooooo nooo noooo

of late they have been hunted over all four oceans, the Sperm Whales,
no nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooooo, noo Noooo Nooooo,

instead of almost invariably sailing in small detached companies, as in
noooooo no nooooo nooooooooo noooooo no noooo nooooooo noooooooo, no no

former times, are now frequently met with in extensive herds, sometimes
nooooo noooo, noo noo nooooooooo noo nooo no noooooooo noooo, noooooooo

embracing so great a multitude, that it would almost seem as if
noooooooo no noooo n noooooooo, nooo no noooo nooooo nooo no no

numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and covenant for mutual
nooooooo noooooo no nooo noo noooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo

assistance and protection. To this aggregation of the Sperm Whale into
nooooooooo noo nooooooooo. No nooo noooooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo nooo

such immense caravans, may be imputed the circumstance that even in the
nooo noooooo nooooooo, noo no noooooo noo nooooooooooo nooo nooo no noo

best cruising grounds, you may now sometimes sail for weeks and months
nooo nooooooo noooooo, noo noo noo noooooooo nooo noo noooo noo nooooo

together, without being greeted by a single spout; and then be suddenly
nooooooo, noooooo noooo noooooo no n nooooo noooo; noo nooo no nooooooo

saluted by what sometimes seems thousands on thousands.
noooooo no nooo noooooooo noooo noooooooo no noooooooo.




Broad on both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and
Noooo no nooo nooo, no noo nooooooo no nooo noo no noooo noooo, noo

forming a great semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon,
noooooo n noooo nooooooooo, noooooooo noo nooo no noo noooo noooooo,

a continuous chain of whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the
n nooooooooo noooo no noooo-nooo nooo no-noooooo noo noooooooo no noo

noon-day air. Unlike the straight perpendicular twin-jets of the Right
nooo-noo noo. Nooooo noo nooooooo noooooooooooo nooo-nooo no noo Noooo

Whale, which, dividing at top, fall over in two branches, like the cleft
Noooo, noooo, nooooooo no noo, nooo nooo no noo nooooooo, nooo noo noooo

drooping boughs of a willow, the single forward-slanting spout of the
nooooooo nooooo no n nooooo, noo nooooo noooooo-nooooooo noooo no noo

Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of white mist, continually
Noooo Noooo nooooooo n noooo nooooo nooo no noooo nooo, noooooooooo

rising and falling away to leeward.
nooooo noo noooooo nooo no noooooo.




Seen from the Pequod's deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill of
Nooo nooo noo Nooooo'n nooo, nooo, no noo noooo nooo no n nooo nooo no

the sea, this host of vapoury spouts, individually curling up into the
noo noo, nooo nooo no noooooo nooooo, nooooooooooo noooooo no nooo noo

air, and beheld through a blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showed
noo, noo nooooo noooooo n nooooooo nooooooooo no nooooo nooo, nooooo

like the thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense metropolis, descried
nooo noo nooooooo nooooooo nooooooo no nooo noooo nooooooooo, nooooooo

of a balmy autumnal morning, by some horseman on a height.
no n noooo nooooooo noooooo, no nooo nooooooo no n nooooo.




As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in the mountains,
No nooooooo nooooo noooooooooo no nooooooooo nooooo no noo noooooooo,

accelerate their march, all eagerness to place that perilous passage in
nooooooooo noooo noooo, noo noooooooo no noooo nooo nooooooo noooooo no

their rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon the plain;
noooo nooo, noo nooo nooo nooooo no noooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo;

even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward through
nooo no noo nooo nooo noooo no nooooo noo nooo nooooooo noooooo noooooo

the straits; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle, and
noo noooooo; noooooooo noooooooooo noo noooo no noooo nooooooooo, noo

swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre.
nooooooo no, no noo noooo, noo noooo nooooooooo nooooo.




Crowding all sail the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneers
Nooooooo noo nooo noo Nooooo noooooo noooo nooo; noo noooooooooo

handling their weapons, and loudly cheering from the heads of their
nooooooo noooo noooooo, noo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo no noooo

yet suspended boats. If the wind only held, little doubt had they, that
noo noooooooo noooo. No noo nooo nooo nooo, nooooo noooo noo nooo, nooo

chased through these Straits of Sunda, the vast host would only deploy
nooooo noooooo noooo Noooooo no Noooo, noo nooo nooo noooo nooo nooooo

into the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their
nooo noo Nooooooo nooo no noooooo noo noooooo no noo n noo no noooo

number. And who could tell whether, in that congregated caravan, Moby
nooooo. Noo noo noooo nooo noooooo, no nooo noooooooooo noooooo, Nooo

Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the worshipped
Nooo noooooo noooo noo noooooooooo no nooooooo, nooo noo nooooooooo

white-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese! So with
noooo-nooooooo no noo nooooooooo nooooooooo no noo Noooooo! No nooo

stun-sail piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving these leviathans
nooo-nooo noooo no nooo-nooo, no nooooo noooo, noooooo noooo nooooooooo

before us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard, loudly
nooooo no; nooo, no n nooooo, noo noooo no Nooooooo noo noooo, nooooo

directing attention to something in our wake.
noooooooo noooooooo no noooooooo no noo nooo.




Corresponding to the crescent in our van, we beheld another in our rear.
Noooooooooooo no noo nooooooo no noo noo, no nooooo noooooo no noo nooo.

It seemed formed of detached white vapours, rising and falling something
No nooooo nooooo no nooooooo noooo noooooo, nooooo noo noooooo noooooooo

like the spouts of the whales; only they did not so completely come and
nooo noo nooooo no noo nooooo; nooo nooo noo noo no nooooooooo nooo noo

go; for they constantly hovered, without finally disappearing. Levelling
no; noo nooo nooooooooo noooooo, noooooo noooooo nooooooooooo. Noooooooo

his glass at this sight, Ahab quickly revolved in his pivot-hole,
noo noooo no nooo noooo, Nooo noooooo nooooooo no noo noooo-nooo,

crying, "Aloft there, and rig whips and buckets to wet the
nooooo, "Noooo noooo, noo noo noooo noo noooooo no noo noo

sails;--Malays, sir, and after us!"
noooo;--Nooooo, noo, noo noooo no!"




As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should
No no noo nooo noooooo nooooo noo noooooooo, nooo noo Nooooo nooooo

fairly have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in hot
nooooo nooo noooooo noo noooooo, noooo nooooooo Nooooooo nooo noo no noo

pursuit, to make up for their over-cautious delay. But when the swift
noooooo, no nooo no noo noooo nooo-nooooooo noooo. Noo nooo noo noooo

Pequod, with a fresh leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how very
Nooooo, nooo n noooo noooooo nooo, noo noooooo no noo noooo; noo nooo

kind of these tawny philanthropists to assist in speeding her on to
nooo no noooo noooo noooooooooooooo no nooooo no nooooooo noo no no

her own chosen pursuit,--mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that they
noo noo nooooo noooooo,--nooo nooooo-noooo noo nooooo no noo, nooo nooo

were. As with glass under arm, Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in his
nooo. No nooo noooo noooo noo, Nooo no-noo-noo noooo noo nooo; no noo

forward turn beholding the monsters he chased, and in the after one the
noooooo nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo no nooooo, noo no noo noooo noo noo

bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some such fancy as the above seemed
nooooooooooo noooooo noooooo noo; nooo nooo noooo no noo noooo nooooo

his. And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery defile in
noo. Noo nooo no noooooo nooo noo noooo noooo no noo nooooo nooooo no

which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him that through that
noooo noo nooo noo nooo noooooo, noo noooooooo noo nooo noooooo nooo

gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that through that
nooo noo noo noooo no noo noooooooo, noo nooooo, noo nooo noooooo nooo

same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly end;
nooo nooo no noo noo nooo noooooo noo noooo nooooo no noo nooooo noo;

and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and
noo noo nooo nooo, noo n nooo no noooooooooo nooo noooooo noo

inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their
noooooo noooooooooo nooooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo noo no nooo noooo

curses;--when all these conceits had passed through his brain, Ahab's
nooooo;--nooo noo noooo nooooooo noo nooooo noooooo noo noooo, Nooo'n

brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like the black sand beach after some
nooo noo nooo noooo noo nooooo, nooo noo noooo nooo noooo noooo nooo

stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag the firm
nooooo nooo noo nooo noooooo no, noooooo noooo nooo no nooo noo nooo

thing from its place.
noooo nooo noo noooo.




But thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and
Noo nooooooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo noo no noo nooooooo nooo; noo

when, after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the
nooo, noooo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo noo noooooo nooooo, noo

Pequod at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra
Nooooo no nooo nooo no noo noooo noooo Nooooooo Noooo no noo Noooooo

side, emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond; then, the
nooo, nooooooo no nooo nooo noo noooo nooooo nooooo; nooo, noo

harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been gaining
noooooooooo nooooo nooo no nooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo noo nooo noooooo

upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship had so victoriously gained
nooo noo nooo, nooo no noooooo nooo noo nooo noo no nooooooooooo nooooo

upon the Malays. But still driving on in the wake of the whales, at
nooo noo Nooooo. Noo noooo noooooo no no noo nooo no noo nooooo, no

length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship neared them;
nooooo nooo nooooo noooooo noooo noooo; noooooooo noo nooo nooooo nooo;

and the wind now dying away, word was passed to spring to the boats. But
noo noo nooo noo noooo nooo, nooo noo nooooo no nooooo no noo noooo. Noo

no sooner did the herd, by some presumed wonderful instinct of the Sperm
no nooooo noo noo nooo, no nooo nooooooo noooooooo nooooooo no noo Noooo

Whale, become notified of the three keels that were after them,--though
Noooo, nooooo nooooooo no noo noooo noooo nooo nooo noooo nooo,--nooooo

as yet a mile in their rear,--than they rallied again, and forming
no noo n nooo no noooo nooo,--nooo nooo noooooo noooo, noo noooooo

in close ranks and battalions, so that their spouts all looked like
no noooo noooo noo nooooooooo, no nooo noooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo

flashing lines of stacked bayonets, moved on with redoubled velocity.
nooooooo noooo no noooooo nooooooo, noooo no nooo noooooooo nooooooo.




Stripped to our shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash, and
Nooooooo no noo nooooo noo noooooo, no nooooo no noo noooo-noo, noo

after several hours' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase,
noooo noooooo noooo' noooooo nooo nooooo nooooooo no nooooooo noo noooo,

when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating
nooo n noooooo noooooo noooooooo noooo noo nooooo nooo noooooooo

token that they were now at last under the influence of that strange
noooo nooo nooo nooo noo no nooo noooo noo noooooooo no nooo noooooo

perplexity of inert irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive
nooooooooo no noooo nooooooooooo, noooo, nooo noo noooooooo nooooooo

it in the whale, they say he is gallied. The compact martial columns
no no noo noooo, nooo noo no no noooooo. Noo noooooo noooooo noooooo

in which they had been hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming, were now
no noooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo nooooooo, nooo noo

broken up in one measureless rout; and like King Porus' elephants in the
nooooo no no noo noooooooooo nooo; noo nooo Nooo Noooo' noooooooo no noo

Indian battle with Alexander, they seemed going mad with consternation.
Nooooo nooooo nooo Noooooooo, nooo nooooo noooo noo nooo noooooooooooo.

In all directions expanding in vast irregular circles, and aimlessly
No noo nooooooooo noooooooo no nooo noooooooo noooooo, noo noooooooo

swimming hither and thither, by their short thick spoutings, they
nooooooo nooooo noo noooooo, no noooo noooo noooo noooooooo, nooo

plainly betrayed their distraction of panic. This was still more
noooooo nooooooo noooo noooooooooo no noooo. Nooo noo noooo nooo

strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely paralysed
noooooooo noooooo no noooo no noooo nooooo, noo, nooooooooo noooooooo

as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on the
no no nooo, nooooooooo noooooo nooo noooo-nooooo nooooooooo noooo no noo

sea. Had these Leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep, pursued over
noo. Noo noooo Nooooooooo nooo noo n noooo no nooooo noooo, noooooo nooo

the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not possibly have evinced
noo noooooo no noooo nooooo nooooo, nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo noooooo

such excessive dismay. But this occasional timidity is characteristic
nooo noooooooo nooooo. Noo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo no nooooooooooooo

of almost all herding creatures. Though banding together in tens of
no nooooo noo noooooo noooooooo. Nooooo noooooo nooooooo no nooo no

thousands, the lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a
noooooooo, noo nooo-noooo noooooooo no noo Nooo nooo nooo nooooo n

solitary horseman. Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded
nooooooo nooooooo. Noooooo, noo, noo noooo nooooo, noo nooo nooooo

together in the sheepfold of a theatre's pit, they will, at the
nooooooo no noo noooooooo no n noooooo'n noo, nooo nooo, no noo

slightest alarm of fire, rush helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding,
noooooooo noooo no nooo, nooo nooooo-noooooo noo noo noooooo, nooooooo,

trampling, jamming, and remorselessly dashing each other to death. Best,
noooooooo, noooooo, noo noooooooooooo noooooo nooo noooo no noooo. Nooo,

therefore, withhold any amazement at the strangely gallied whales
noooooooo, nooooooo noo noooooooo no noo noooooooo noooooo nooooo

before us, for there is no folly of the beasts of the earth which is not
nooooo no, noo noooo no no noooo no noo nooooo no noo noooo noooo no noo

infinitely outdone by the madness of men.
nooooooooo noooooo no noo noooooo no noo.




Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion,
Nooooo nooo no noo nooooo, no noo nooo nooo, nooo no noooooo nooooo,

yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor
noo no no no no nooooooo nooo no n noooo noo nooo noooooo nooooooo noo

retreated, but collectively remained in one place. As is customary in
noooooooo, noo nooooooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo. No no noooooooo no

those cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one
noooo noooo, noo noooo no nooo noooooooo, nooo nooooo noo nooo noo

lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal. In about three minutes' time,
nooo noooo no noo noooooooo no noo noooo. No noooo noooo noooooo' nooo,

Queequeg's harpoon was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray
Nooooooo'n noooooo noo noooo; noo nooooooo nooo nooooo nooooooo noooo

in our faces, and then running away with us like light, steered straight
no noo noooo, noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo no nooo noooo, noooooo nooooooo

for the heart of the herd. Though such a movement on the part of the
noo noo noooo no noo nooo. Nooooo nooo n nooooooo no noo nooo no noo

whale struck under such circumstances, is in no wise unprecedented; and
noooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooooooooo, no no no nooo noooooooooooo; noo

indeed is almost always more or less anticipated; yet does it present
nooooo no nooooo nooooo nooo no nooo noooooooooo; noo nooo no noooooo

one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery. For as the swift
noo no noo nooo nooooooo nooooooooooo no noo noooooo. Noo no noo noooo

monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal, you bid
noooooo noooo noo nooooo noo nooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo, noo noo

adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb.
noooo no noooooooooo nooo noo nooo noooo no n noooooooo noooo.




As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer power of
No, noooo noo nooo, noo noooo noooooo noooooo, no no no noooo noooo no

speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as we
noooo no noo noooooo no noo nooo noooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo; no no

thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
nooo nooo n noooo nooo no noo noo, no noo noooo noooooo no no nooo, no

the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was
noo nooooo noooooooo no noo noo noooooo noooo no; noo noooo nooo noo

like a ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer
nooo n nooo nooooo no noo-noooo no n noooooo, noo nooooooo no noooo

through their complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what
noooooo noooo noooooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo, noooooo noo no nooo

moment it may be locked in and crushed.
nooooo no noo no nooooo no noo noooooo.




But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off
Noo noo n noo noooooo, Nooooooo noooooo no nooooooo; noo nooooooo noo

from this monster directly across our route in advance; now edging away
nooo nooo noooooo nooooooo nooooo noo noooo no noooooo; noo nooooo nooo

from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while all the
nooo nooo, noooo nooooooo nooooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo, noooo noo noo

time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of our
nooo, Nooooooo noooo no no noo nooo, noooo no nooo, nooooooo noo no noo

way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no time
noo nooooooo nooooo no noooo noooo no noooo noooo, noo noooo noo no nooo

to make long ones. Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their wonted
no nooo nooo nooo. Noo nooo noo noooooo noooo nooo, nooooo noooo nooooo

duty was now altogether dispensed with. They chiefly attended to the
nooo noo noo nooooooooo noooooooo nooo. Nooo noooooo nooooooo no noo

shouting part of the business. "Out of the way, Commodore!" cried one,
nooooooo nooo no noo nooooooo. "Noo no noo noo, Noooooooo!" noooo noo,

to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface,
no n noooo noooooooo nooo no n nooooo nooo nooooo no noo noooooo,

and for an instant threatened to swamp us. "Hard down with your tail,
noo noo no noooooo nooooooooo no noooo no. "Nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo,

there!" cried a second to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed
noooo!" noooo n nooooo no noooooo, noooo, noooo no noo noooooo, nooooo

calmly cooling himself with his own fan-like extremity.
nooooo noooooo noooooo nooo noo noo noo-nooo noooooooo.




All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, originally invented
Noo nooooooooo noooo noooooo noooooo nooooooooooo, nooooooooo nooooooo

by the Nantucket Indians, called druggs. Two thick squares of wood
no noo Noooooooo Noooooo, nooooo nooooo. Noo noooo noooooo no nooo

of equal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they cross each
no noooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooo nooooooo, no nooo nooo noooo nooo

other's grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is then
noooo'n noooo no noooo nooooo; n nooo no nooooooooooo nooooo no nooo

attached to the middle of this block, and the other end of the line
nooooooo no noo nooooo no nooo noooo, noo noo noooo noo no noo nooo

being looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon. It is chiefly
noooo nooooo, no noo no n nooooo no nooooooo no n noooooo. No no noooooo

among gallied whales that this drugg is used. For then, more whales
noooo noooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo no nooo. Noo nooo, nooo nooooo

are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time. But sperm
noo noooo noooo noo nooo noo noo nooooooo noooo no noo nooo. Noo noooo

whales are not every day encountered; while you may, then, you must
nooooo noo noo noooo noo noooooooooo; noooo noo noo, nooo, noo nooo

kill all you can. And if you cannot kill them all at once, you must wing
nooo noo noo noo. Noo no noo nooooo nooo nooo noo no nooo, noo nooo nooo

them, so that they can be afterwards killed at your leisure. Hence it
nooo, no nooo nooo noo no nooooooooo nooooo no nooo noooooo. Noooo no

is, that at times like these the drugg, comes into requisition. Our boat
no, nooo no noooo nooo noooo noo noooo, noooo nooo noooooooooo. Noo nooo

was furnished with three of them. The first and second were successfully
noo noooooooo nooo noooo no nooo. Noo noooo noo nooooo nooo nooooooooooo

darted, and we saw the whales staggeringly running off, fettered by the
nooooo, noo no noo noo nooooo nooooooooooo noooooo noo, nooooooo no noo

enormous sidelong resistance of the towing drugg. They were cramped like
nooooooo nooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo noooo. Nooo nooo noooooo nooo

malefactors with the chain and ball. But upon flinging the third, in the
noooooooooo nooo noo noooo noo nooo. Noo nooo nooooooo noo noooo, no noo

act of tossing overboard the clumsy wooden block, it caught under one
noo no noooooo noooooooo noo nooooo nooooo noooo, no nooooo noooo noo

of the seats of the boat, and in an instant tore it out and carried it
no noo noooo no noo nooo, noo no no noooooo nooo no noo noo noooooo no

away, dropping the oarsman in the boat's bottom as the seat slid from
nooo, nooooooo noo noooooo no noo nooo'n nooooo no noo nooo nooo nooo

under him. On both sides the sea came in at the wounded planks, but we
noooo noo. No nooo noooo noo noo nooo no no noo noooooo nooooo, noo no

stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in, and so stopped the leaks for
noooooo noo no noooo noooooo noo nooooo no, noo no noooooo noo noooo noo

the time.
noo nooo.




It had been next to impossible to dart these drugged-harpoons, were
No noo nooo nooo no nooooooooo no nooo noooo noooooo-nooooooo, nooo

it not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale's way greatly
no noo nooo no no nooooooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooo'n noo noooooo

diminished; moreover, that as we went still further and further from the
nooooooooo; nooooooo, nooo no no nooo noooo noooooo noo noooooo nooo noo

circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning. So that
noooooooooooo no noooooooo, noo noooooo noooooooo nooooo nooooo. No nooo

when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale sideways
nooo no nooo noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo, noo noo nooooo noooo nooooooo

vanished; then, with the tapering force of his parting momentum, we
nooooooo; nooo, nooo noo nooooooo noooo no noo noooooo nooooooo, no

glided between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal, as if
nooooo noooooo noo nooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo no noo noooo, no no

from some mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake. Here
nooo nooo nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo nooo n nooooo nooooo nooo. Nooo

the storms in the roaring glens between the outermost whales, were heard
noo nooooo no noo noooooo noooo noooooo noo noooooooo nooooo, nooo noooo

but not felt. In this central expanse the sea presented that smooth
noo noo nooo. No nooo noooooo noooooo noo noo noooooooo nooo nooooo

satin-like surface, called a sleek, produced by the subtle moisture
noooo-nooo noooooo, nooooo n noooo, nooooooo no noo nooooo nooooooo

thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods. Yes, we were now
nooooo noo no noo noooo no noo nooo noooo noooo. Noo, no nooo noo

in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every
no nooo noooooooo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo no noo noooo no noooo

commotion. And still in the distracted distance we beheld the tumults of
noooooooo. Noo noooo no noo nooooooooo nooooooo no nooooo noo noooooo no

the outer concentric circles, and saw successive pods of whales, eight
noo noooo nooooooooo noooooo, noo noo nooooooooo nooo no nooooo, noooo

or ten in each, swiftly going round and round, like multiplied spans of
no noo no nooo, noooooo noooo noooo noo noooo, nooo nooooooooo noooo no

horses in a ring; and so closely shoulder to shoulder, that a Titanic
nooooo no n nooo; noo no noooooo nooooooo no nooooooo, nooo n Noooooo

circus-rider might easily have over-arched the middle ones, and so have
nooooo-noooo noooo nooooo nooo nooo-nooooo noo nooooo nooo, noo no nooo

gone round on their backs. Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing
nooo noooo no noooo noooo. Noooo no noo noooooo no noo noooo no nooooooo

whales, more immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no
nooooo, nooo noooooooooo noooooooooo noo noooooo nooo no noo nooo, no

possible chance of escape was at present afforded us. We must watch for
nooooooo nooooo no nooooo noo no noooooo nooooooo no. No nooo noooo noo

a breach in the living wall that hemmed us in; the wall that had only
n nooooo no noo nooooo nooo nooo nooooo no no; noo nooo nooo noo nooo

admitted us in order to shut us up. Keeping at the centre of the lake,
nooooooo no no noooo no nooo no no. Noooooo no noo nooooo no noo nooo,

we were occasionally visited by small tame cows and calves; the women
no nooo nooooooooooo noooooo no noooo nooo nooo noo nooooo; noo noooo

and children of this routed host.
noo nooooooo no nooo nooooo nooo.




Now, inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving
Noo, noooooooo no noo nooooooooo nooo noooooooo noooooo noo noooooooo

outer circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in
noooo noooooo, noo noooooooo no noo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo nooo no

any one of those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by
noo noo no noooo noooooo, noo nooooo nooo no nooo nooooooo, nooooooo no

the whole multitude, must have contained at least two or three square
noo noooo noooooooo, nooo nooo noooooooo no noooo noo no noooo nooooo

miles. At any rate--though indeed such a test at such a time might be
noooo. No noo nooo--nooooo nooooo nooo n nooo no nooo n nooo noooo no

deceptive--spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that
noooooooo--noooooooo noooo no nooooooooo nooo noo noo nooo nooo

seemed playing up almost from the rim of the horizon. I mention this
nooooo noooooo no nooooo nooo noo noo no noo noooooo. N noooooo nooo

circumstance, because, as if the cows and calves had been purposely
nooooooooooo, noooooo, no no noo nooo noo nooooo noo nooo noooooooo

locked up in this innermost fold; and as if the wide extent of the
nooooo no no nooo noooooooo nooo; noo no no noo nooo nooooo no noo

herd had hitherto prevented them from learning the precise cause of its
nooo noo nooooooo noooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooo noooo no noo

stopping; or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and every way
nooooooo; no, nooooooo, noooo no noooo, noooooooooooooo, noo noooo noo

innocent and inexperienced; however it may have been, these smaller
nooooooo noo noooooooooooo; noooooo no noo nooo nooo, noooo noooooo

whales--now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the
nooooo--noo noo nooo nooooooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo no noo

lake--evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a still
nooo--noooooo n nooooooo nooooooooooo noo nooooooooo, no nooo n noooo

becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at. Like household
noooooooo noooo noooo no noo nooooooooo noo no nooooo no. Nooo noooooooo

dogs they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales, and
nooo nooo nooo noooooooo noooo no, noooo no no noo nooooooo, noo

touching them; till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly
nooooooo nooo; nooo no nooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo noo nooooooo

domesticated them. Queequeg patted their foreheads; Starbuck scratched
nooooooooooo nooo. Nooooooo nooooo noooo noooooooo; Nooooooo noooooooo

their backs with his lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the
noooo noooo nooo noo noooo; noo noooooo no noo nooooooooooo, noo noo

time refrained from darting it.
nooo noooooooo nooo noooooo no.




But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and still
Noo noo noooooo nooo nooooooo noooo nooo noo noooooo, noooooo noo noooo

stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side. For, suspended
nooooooo noooo noo noo nooo no no noooo nooo noo nooo. Noo, noooooooo

in those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the
no noooo nooooo nooooo, noooooo noo noooo no noo noooooo noooooo no noo

whales, and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to
nooooo, noo noooo nooo no noooo nooooooo noooo nooooo noooooo no

become mothers. The lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth
nooooo noooooo. Noo nooo, no N nooo nooooo, noo no n nooooooooooo noooo

exceedingly transparent; and as human infants while suckling will calmly
noooooooooo noooooooooo; noo no noooo noooooo noooo nooooooo nooo nooooo

and fixedly gaze away from the breast, as if leading two different
noo noooooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooooo, no no noooooo noo noooooooo

lives at the time; and while yet drawing mortal nourishment, be still
noooo no noo nooo; noo noooo noo noooooo nooooo noooooooooo, no noooo

spiritually feasting upon some unearthly reminiscence;--even so did the
noooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooooooooooo;--nooo no noo noo

young of these whales seem looking up towards us, but not at us, as if
noooo no noooo nooooo nooo noooooo no noooooo no, noo noo no no, no no

we were but a bit of Gulfweed in their new-born sight. Floating on their
no nooo noo n noo no Nooooooo no noooo noo-nooo noooo. Nooooooo no noooo

sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us. One of these little
noooo, noo noooooo nooo nooooo noooooo nooooo no. Noo no noooo nooooo

infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a day old, might
noooooo, nooo nooo noooooo noooo nooooo nooooo nooooo n noo noo, noooo

have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some six feet in
nooo nooooooo nooo nooooooo nooo no nooooo, noo nooo noo nooo no

girth. He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemed scarce yet
noooo. No noo n nooooo nooooo; nooooo no noo noo nooo nooooo nooooo noo

recovered from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the
noooooooo nooo nooo noooooo nooooooo no noo no nooooo nooooooo no noo

maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready for the final
nooooooo nooooooo; noooo, nooo no nooo, noo noo noooo noo noo noooo

spring, the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar's bow. The delicate
nooooo, noo nooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo n Nooooo'n noo. Noo nooooooo

side-fins, and the palms of his flukes, still freshly retained the
nooo-nooo, noo noo noooo no noo nooooo, noooo noooooo nooooooo noo

plaited crumpled appearance of a baby's ears newly arrived from foreign
noooooo nooooooo nooooooooo no n nooo'n nooo noooo noooooo nooo noooooo

parts.
noooo.




"Line! line!" cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; "him fast! him
"Nooo! nooo!" noooo Nooooooo, noooooo nooo noo noooooo; "noo nooo! noo

fast!--Who line him! Who struck?--Two whale; one big, one little!"
nooo!--Noo nooo noo! Noo nooooo?--Noo noooo; noo noo, noo nooooo!"




"What ails ye, man?" cried Starbuck.
"Nooo nooo no, noo?" noooo Nooooooo.




"Look-e here," said Queequeg, pointing down.
"Nooo-n nooo," nooo Nooooooo, nooooooo nooo.




As when the stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of
No nooo noo nooooooo noooo, nooo nooo noo noo noo nooooo noo nooooooo no

fathoms of rope; as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, and shows
noooooo no nooo; no, noooo nooo nooooooo, no nooooo no noooo, noo noooo

the slackened curling line buoyantly rising and spiralling towards the
noo noooooooo noooooo nooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo noo

air; so now, Starbuck saw long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame
noo; no noo, Nooooooo noo nooo noooo no noo noooooooo nooo no Nooooo

Leviathan, by which the young cub seemed still tethered to its dam. Not
Noooooooo, no noooo noo noooo noo nooooo noooo nooooooo no noo noo. Noo

seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the chase, this natural line, with
nooooo no noo noooo nooooooooooo no noo noooo, nooo noooooo nooo, nooo

the maternal end loose, becomes entangled with the hempen one, so that
noo nooooooo noo noooo, noooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooooo noo, no nooo

the cub is thereby trapped. Some of the subtlest secrets of the seas
noo noo no noooooo noooooo. Nooo no noo nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo

seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond. We saw young Leviathan
nooooo nooooooo no no no nooo noooooooo nooo. No noo noooo Noooooooo

amours in the deep.*
nooooo no noo nooo.*







*The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but unlike
*Noo noooo noooo, no nooo noo noooo noooooo no noo Noooooooo, noo nooooo

most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a gestation
nooo noooo nooo, nooooo noooooooooooo no noo noooooo; noooo n noooooooo

which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but one at a
noooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo no nooo nooooo, noooooooo noo noo no n

time; though in some few known instances giving birth to an Esau and
nooo; nooooo no nooo noo noooo noooooooo nooooo noooo no no Nooo noo

Jacob:--a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, curiously
Noooo:--n noooooooooo nooooooo noo no nooooooo no noo noooo, noooooooo

situated, one on each side of the anus; but the breasts themselves
nooooooo, noo no nooo nooo no noo nooo; noo noo noooooo nooooooooo

extend upwards from that. When by chance these precious parts in a
nooooo noooooo nooo nooo. Nooo no nooooo noooo nooooooo noooo no n

nursing whale are cut by the hunter's lance, the mother's pouring milk
noooooo noooo noo noo no noo nooooo'n noooo, noo nooooo'n noooooo nooo

and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods. The milk is very sweet
noo noooo noooooooooo noooooooo noo noo noo nooo. Noo nooo no nooo noooo

and rich; it has been tasted by man; it might do well with strawberries.
noo nooo; no noo nooo nooooo no noo; no noooo no nooo nooo nooooooooooo.

When overflowing with mutual esteem, the whales salute MORE HOMINUM.
Nooo noooooooooo nooo nooooo nooooo, noo nooooo nooooo NOOO NOOOOOO.







And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations
Noo nooo, nooooo nooooooooo no nooooo nooo nooooo no nooooooooooooo

and affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely and
noo noooooooo, noo noooo noooooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo nooooo noo

fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely revelled
nooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo nooooooooooo; noo, nooooooo nooooooo

in dalliance and delight. But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic of
no noooooooo noo noooooo. Noo nooo no, nooo noo noooooooo Nooooooo no

my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; and
no noooo, no N nooooo noooo noo nooo noooooooo noooooo no nooo nooo; noo

while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down and
noooo noooooooo noooooo no nooooooo noo noooooo noooo no, nooo nooo noo

deep inland there I still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.
nooo nooooo noooo N noooo noooo no no noooooo nooooooo no noo.




Meanwhile, as we thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic
Noooooooo, no no nooo noo noooooooo, noo nooooooooo nooooo noooooo

spectacles in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats,
nooooooooo no noo nooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo noooo,

still engaged in drugging the whales on the frontier of the host; or
noooo noooooo no nooooooo noo nooooo no noo nooooooo no noo nooo; no

possibly carrying on the war within the first circle, where abundance of
nooooooo nooooooo no noo noo nooooo noo noooo nooooo, noooo noooooooo no

room and some convenient retreats were afforded them. But the sight
nooo noo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooooooo nooo. Noo noo noooo

of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly darting to and fro
no noo noooooo noooooo nooooo noo noo nooo noooooo noooooo no noo noo

across the circles, was nothing to what at last met our eyes. It is
nooooo noo noooooo, noo noooooo no nooo no nooo noo noo nooo. No no

sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerful
noooooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo no n noooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo

and alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or
noo noooo, no nooo no noooooooo noo, no no nooo, no noooooooo no

maiming his gigantic tail-tendon. It is done by darting a short-handled
noooooo noo nooooooo nooo-nooooo. No no nooo no noooooo n noooo-noooooo

cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again.
noooooo-noooo, no noooo no nooooooo n nooo noo noooooo no nooo noooo.

A whale wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but not
N noooo noooooo (no no nooooooooo noooooo) no nooo nooo, noo noo

effectually, as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carrying along
noooooooooo, no no nooooo, noo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo, nooooooo noooo

with him half of the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agony of
nooo noo nooo no noo noooooo nooo; noo no noo noooooooooooo noooo no

the wound, he was now dashing among the revolving circles like the lone
noo noooo, no noo noo noooooo noooo noo noooooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo

mounted desperado Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carrying dismay
noooooo noooooooo Nooooo, no noo nooooo no Nooooooo, nooooooo nooooo

wherever he went.
nooooooo no nooo.




But agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appalling spectacle
Noo noooooooo no noo noo noooo no nooo noooo, noo no noooooooo noooooooo

enough, any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to
nooooo, noo noo; noo noo nooooooo nooooo nooo noooo no nooooo no

inspire the rest of the herd, was owing to a cause which at first the
noooooo noo nooo no noo nooo, noo noooo no n noooo noooo no noooo noo

intervening distance obscured from us. But at length we perceived that
noooooooooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo no. Noo no nooooo no noooooooo nooo

by one of the unimaginable accidents of the fishery, this whale had
no noo no noo nooooooooooo noooooooo no noo noooooo, nooo noooo noo

become entangled in the harpoon-line that he towed; he had also run
nooooo noooooooo no noo noooooo-nooo nooo no noooo; no noo nooo noo

away with the cutting-spade in him; and while the free end of the rope
nooo nooo noo noooooo-noooo no noo; noo noooo noo nooo noo no noo nooo

attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in the coils of the
nooooooo no nooo nooooo, noo noooooooooo nooooo no noo noooo no noo

harpoon-line round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had worked loose
noooooo-nooo noooo noo nooo, noo noooooo-noooo nooooo noo nooooo noooo

from his flesh. So that tormented to madness, he was now churning
nooo noo noooo. No nooo noooooooo no noooooo, no noo noo nooooooo

through the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and
noooooo noo noooo, noooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo, noo

tossing the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own
noooooo noo nooo noooo noooo noo, nooooooo noo noooooooo noo noo

comrades.
nooooooo.




This terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their
Nooo nooooooo nooooo nooooo no nooooo noo noooo nooo nooo noooo

stationary fright. First, the whales forming the margin of our lake
nooooooooo nooooo. Noooo, noo nooooo noooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo

began to crowd a little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted
noooo no noooo n nooooo, noo nooooo noooooo nooo noooo, no no nooooo

by half spent billows from afar; then the lake itself began faintly to
no nooo noooo noooooo nooo nooo; nooo noo nooo nooooo noooo noooooo no

heave and swell; the submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished;
noooo noo noooo; noo noooooooo nooooo-nooooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo;

in more and more contracting orbits the whales in the more central
no nooo noo nooo noooooooooo nooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo noooooo

circles began to swim in thickening clusters. Yes, the long calm was
noooooo noooo no nooo no nooooooooo nooooooo. Noo, noo nooo nooo noo

departing. A low advancing hum was soon heard; and then like to the
noooooooo. N noo noooooooo noo noo nooo noooo; noo nooo nooo no noo

tumultuous masses of block-ice when the great river Hudson breaks up in
nooooooooo nooooo no noooo-noo nooo noo noooo noooo Nooooo nooooo no no

Spring, the entire host of whales came tumbling upon their inner centre,
Nooooo, noo nooooo nooo no nooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noooo noooo nooooo,

as if to pile themselves up in one common mountain. Instantly Starbuck
no no no nooo nooooooooo no no noo nooooo nooooooo. Noooooooo Nooooooo

and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern.
noo Nooooooo noooooo nooooo; Nooooooo nooooo noo noooo.




"Oars! Oars!" he intensely whispered, seizing the helm--"gripe your
"Nooo! Nooo!" no noooooooo noooooooo, noooooo noo nooo--"noooo nooo

oars, and clutch your souls, now! My God, men, stand by! Shove him off,
nooo, noo nooooo nooo noooo, noo! No Noo, noo, noooo no! Noooo noo noo,

you Queequeg--the whale there!--prick him!--hit him! Stand up--stand
noo Nooooooo--noo noooo noooo!--noooo noo!--noo noo! Noooo no--noooo

up, and stay so! Spring, men--pull, men; never mind their backs--scrape
no, noo nooo no! Nooooo, noo--nooo, noo; noooo nooo noooo noooo--nooooo

them!--scrape away!"
nooo!--nooooo nooo!"




The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a
Noo nooo noo noo noo noo nooooo noooooo noo nooo noooo noooo, noooooo n

narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths. But by desperate endeavor
nooooo Noooooooooo noooooo noooo nooo noooooo. Noo no noooooooo nooooooo

we at last shot into a temporary opening; then giving way rapidly,
no no nooo nooo nooo n noooooooo noooooo; nooo nooooo noo noooooo,

and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet. After many
noo no noo nooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo noo noooooo nooooo. Noooo nooo

similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last swiftly glided into what had
noooooo nooo-noooooo noooooo, no no nooo noooooo nooooo nooo nooo noo

just been one of the outer circles, but now crossed by random whales,
nooo nooo noo no noo noooo noooooo, noo noo noooooo no nooooo nooooo,

all violently making for one centre. This lucky salvation was cheaply
noo noooooooo nooooo noo noo nooooo. Nooo noooo noooooooo noo noooooo

purchased by the loss of Queequeg's hat, who, while standing in the bows
noooooooo no noo nooo no Nooooooo'n noo, noo, noooo nooooooo no noo nooo

to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean from his head by
no noooo noo nooooooo nooooo, noo noo noo noooo noooo nooo noo nooo no

the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad flukes close
noo noo-nooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooo no n nooo no noooo nooooo noooo

by.
no.




Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was, it soon
Noooooo noo nooooooooo no noo noooooooo noooooooo noo noo, no nooo

resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
nooooooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooo n nooooooooo nooooooo; noo nooooo

clumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their
noooooo nooooooo no nooo no noo noooo nooo, nooo nooo noooooo noooo

onward flight with augmented fleetness. Further pursuit was useless; but
nooooo nooooo nooo noooooooo noooooooo. Noooooo noooooo noo noooooo; noo

the boats still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales
noo noooo noooo nooooooo no noooo nooo no nooo no nooo noooooo nooooo

might be dropped astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask had
noooo no noooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo no nooooo noo noooo Noooo noo

killed and waifed. The waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of which
nooooo noo nooooo. Noo nooo no n nooooooo nooo, noo no noooo no noooo

are carried by every boat; and which, when additional game is at hand,
noo noooooo no noooo nooo; noo noooo, nooo nooooooooo nooo no no nooo,

are inserted upright into the floating body of a dead whale, both to
noo nooooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo no n nooo noooo, nooo no

mark its place on the sea, and also as token of prior possession, should
nooo noo noooo no noo noo, noo nooo no noooo no noooo nooooooooo, nooooo

the boats of any other ship draw near.
noo noooo no noo noooo nooo nooo nooo.




The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious
Noo nooooo no nooo nooooooo noo nooooooo nooooooooooo no nooo noooooooo

saying in the Fishery,--the more whales the less fish. Of all the
nooooo no noo Noooooo,--noo nooo nooooo noo nooo nooo. No noo noo

drugged whales only one was captured. The rest contrived to escape for
noooooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooooooo. Noo nooo noooooooo no nooooo noo

the time, but only to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some other
noo nooo, noo nooo no no noooo, no nooo noooooooo no nooo, no nooo noooo

craft than the Pequod.
noooo nooo noo Nooooo.










CHAPTER 88. Schools and Schoolmasters.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooo noo Noooooooooooo.







The previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm
Noo nooooooo noooooo nooo noooooo no no noooooo nooo no nooo no Noooo

Whales, and there was also then given the probable cause inducing those
Nooooo, noo noooo noo nooo nooo noooo noo nooooooo noooo nooooooo noooo

vast aggregations.
nooo nooooooooooo.




Now, though such great bodies are at times encountered, yet, as must
Noo, nooooo nooo noooo nooooo noo no noooo noooooooooo, noo, no nooo

have been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands are
nooo nooo nooo, nooo no noo noooooo noo, noooo nooooooo noooo noo

occasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each.
nooooooooooo nooooooo, noooooooo nooo nooooo no noooo noooooooooo nooo.

Such bands are known as schools. They generally are of two sorts; those
Nooo noooo noo noooo no noooooo. Nooo noooooooo noo no noo noooo; noooo

composed almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young
nooooooo nooooo nooooooo no noooooo, noo noooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo

vigorous males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated.
nooooooo noooo, no noooo, no nooo noo nooooooooo nooooooooo.




In cavalier attendance upon the school of females, you invariably see a
No nooooooo nooooooooo nooo noo nooooo no noooooo, noo nooooooooo noo n

male of full grown magnitude, but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces
nooo no nooo noooo noooooooo, noo noo noo; noo, nooo noo noooo, noooooo

his gallantry by falling in the rear and covering the flight of his
noo noooooooo no noooooo no noo nooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo no noo

ladies. In truth, this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman, swimming about
nooooo. No noooo, nooo noooooooo no n noooooooo Noooooo, nooooooo noooo

over the watery world, surroundingly accompanied by all the solaces
nooo noo nooooo noooo, noooooooooooo noooooooooo no noo noo noooooo

and endearments of the harem. The contrast between this Ottoman and
noo noooooooooo no noo noooo. Noo nooooooo noooooo nooo Noooooo noo

his concubines is striking; because, while he is always of the largest
noo nooooooooo no nooooooo; noooooo, noooo no no nooooo no noo noooooo

leviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full growth, are not
noooooooooo noooooooooo, noo nooooo, nooo no nooo nooooo, noo noo

more than one-third of the bulk of an average-sized male. They are
nooo nooo noo-noooo no noo nooo no no noooooo-noooo nooo. Nooo noo

comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a dozen
noooooooooooo nooooooo, nooooo; N nooo noo, noo no nooooo nooo n noooo

yards round the waist. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the
noooo noooo noo noooo. Nooooooooooo, no nooooo no nooooo, nooo nooo noo

whole they are hereditarily entitled to EMBONPOINT.
noooo nooo noo nooooooooooo nooooooo no NOOOOOOOOO.




It is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent
No no nooo noooooo no noooo nooo noooo noo noo nooo no noooo nooooooo

ramblings. Like fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely
noooooooo. Nooo nooooooooooo, nooo noo noo nooo no noo nooo no noooooooo

search of variety. You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower
nooooo no noooooo. Noo nooo nooo no noo Nooo no nooo noo noo nooo nooooo

of the Equatorial feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from
no noo Nooooooooo noooooo nooooo, nooooo nooo nooooooo, noooooo, nooo

spending the summer in the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all
nooooooo noo nooooo no noo Nooooooo nooo, noo no nooooooo nooooo no noo

unpleasant weariness and warmth. By the time they have lounged up and
nooooooooo noooooooo noo nooooo. No noo nooo nooo nooo noooooo no noo

down the promenade of the Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental
nooo noo noooooooo no noo Noooooo nooooo, nooo noooo noo noo Nooooooo

waters in anticipation of the cool season there, and so evade the other
nooooo no nooooooooooo no noo nooo nooooo noooo, noo no noooo noo noooo

excessive temperature of the year.
noooooooo noooooooooo no noo nooo.




When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange
Nooo nooooooo noooooooo no noo no noooo nooooooo, no noo noooooo

suspicious sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his
nooooooooo nooooo noo nooo, no nooo noooo noooo n nooo noo no noo

interesting family. Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan coming
noooooooooo nooooo. Nooooo noo noooooooooooo nooo noooo Noooooooo nooooo

that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of the ladies,
nooo noo, noooooo no nooo nooooooooooooo noooo no noo no noo nooooo,

with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him, and chases him away!
nooo nooo nooooooooo nooo noo Nooooo noooooo noo, noo nooooo noo nooo!

High times, indeed, if unprincipled young rakes like him are to be
Nooo noooo, nooooo, no nooooooooooo noooo noooo nooo noo noo no no

permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss; though do what the
noooooooo no nooooo noo nooooooo no nooooooo noooo; nooooo no nooo noo

Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most notorious Lothario out of his bed;
Nooooo nooo, no nooooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo Nooooooo noo no noo noo;

for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, the ladies often cause the
noo, nooo! noo nooo noo no nooooo. No nooooo, noo nooooo noooo noooo noo

most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with the whales,
nooo nooooooo noooo noooo noooo noooo nooooooo; nooo no nooo noo nooooo,

who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love. They fence with
noo noooooooo nooo no nooooo nooooo, noo noo noo nooo. Nooo noooo nooo

their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and so striving
noooo nooo noooo nooo, noooooooo noooooo nooo nooooooo, noo no nooooooo

for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers. Not
noo noo noooooooo nooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooooooooo noooo noooooo. Noo

a few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters,--furrowed
n noo noo nooooooo nooooo noo nooo noooo no noooo nooooooooo,--nooooooo

heads, broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some instances, wrenched and
noooo, nooooo noooo, noooooooo nooo; noo no nooo noooooooo, nooooooo noo

dislocated mouths.
nooooooooo nooooo.




But supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at
Noo noooooooo noo noooooo no nooooooo noooo no nooooo noooooo nooo no

the first rush of the harem's lord, then is it very diverting to watch
noo noooo nooo no noo noooo'n nooo, nooo no no nooo noooooooo no noooo

that lord. Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and
nooo nooo. Nooooo no nooooooooo noo nooo nooo noooo nooo noooo noo

revels there awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario,
nooooo noooo nooooo, noooo no noooooooooo nooooooo no noooo Nooooooo,

like pious Solomon devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines.
nooo noooo Noooooo nooooooo noooooooooo noooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo.

Granting other whales to be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give
Nooooooo noooo nooooo no no no noooo, noo noooooooo nooo nooooo nooo

chase to one of these Grand Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish
noooo no noo no noooo Noooo Noooo; noo noooo Noooo Noooo noo noo nooooo

of their strength, and hence their unctuousness is small. As for the
no noooo nooooooo, noo noooo noooo nooooooooooo no noooo. No noo noo

sons and the daughters they beget, why, those sons and daughters must
nooo noo noo noooooooo nooo noooo, noo, noooo nooo noo noooooooo nooo

take care of themselves; at least, with only the maternal help. For
nooo nooo no nooooooooo; no noooo, nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo. Noo

like certain other omnivorous roving lovers that might be named, my Lord
nooo noooooo noooo nooooooooo nooooo nooooo nooo noooo no noooo, no Nooo

Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower; and so,
Noooo noo no noooo noo noo noooooo, noooooo nooo noo noo noooo; noo no,

being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies all over the
noooo n noooo noooooooo, no nooooo noo noooooooo nooooo noo nooo noo

world; every baby an exotic. In good time, nevertheless, as the ardour
noooo; noooo nooo no nooooo. No nooo nooo, nooooooooooo, no noo nooooo

of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as reflection lends
no noooo nooooooo; no noooo noo noooo nooooooo; no nooooooooo noooo

her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude overtakes the sated
noo nooooo nooooo; no noooo, no n noooooo noooooooo noooooooo noo noooo

Turk; then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens; our
Nooo; nooo n nooo no nooo noo nooooo noooooooo noo nooo noo noooooo; noo

Ottoman enters upon the impotent, repentant, admonitory stage of life,
Noooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo, noooooooo, nooooooooo noooo no nooo,

forswears, disbands the harem, and grown to an exemplary, sulky old
noooooooo, nooooooo noo noooo, noo noooo no no noooooooo, noooo noo

soul, goes about all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his
nooo, nooo noooo noo noooo noooo noo noooooooo noo noooooooo nooooo noo

prayers, and warning each young Leviathan from his amorous errors.
noooooo, noo noooooo nooo noooo Noooooooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo.




Now, as the harem of whales is called by the fishermen a school, so
Noo, no noo noooo no nooooo no nooooo no noo noooooooo n nooooo, no

is the lord and master of that school technically known as the
no noo nooo noo nooooo no nooo nooooo noooooooooo noooo no noo

schoolmaster. It is therefore not in strict character, however admirably
nooooooooooo. No no noooooooo noo no nooooo noooooooo, noooooo noooooooo

satirical, that after going to school himself, he should then go abroad
noooooooo, nooo noooo noooo no nooooo noooooo, no nooooo nooo no nooooo

inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly of it. His title,
noooooooooo noo nooo no noooooo noooo, noo noo noooo no no. Noo noooo,

schoolmaster, would very naturally seem derived from the name bestowed
nooooooooooo, noooo nooo noooooooo nooo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo

upon the harem itself, but some have surmised that the man who first
nooo noo noooo nooooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noo noo noooo

thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale, must have read the memoirs of
nooo nooooooo nooo nooo no Noooooo noooo, nooo nooo nooo noo noooooo no

Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a country-schoolmaster that
Nooooo, noo nooooooo noooooo nooo nooo no n noooooo-nooooooooooo nooo

famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what was the nature of
nooooo Noooooooo noo no noo noooooo nooo, noo nooo noo noo nooooo no

those occult lessons he inculcated into some of his pupils.
noooo nooooo noooooo no nooooooooo nooo nooo no noo nooooo.




The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale
Noo nooo nooooooooooo noo noooooooo no noooo noo nooooooooooo noooo

betakes himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm
noooooo noooooo no noo noooooooo noooo, no nooo no noo nooo Noooo

Whales. Almost universally, a lone whale--as a solitary Leviathan is
Nooooo. Nooooo noooooooooo, n nooo noooo--no n nooooooo Noooooooo no

called--proves an ancient one. Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone,
nooooo--nooooo no noooooo noo. Nooo noooooooo nooo-noooooo Nooooo Noooo,

he will have no one near him but Nature herself; and her he takes to
no nooo nooo no noo nooo noo noo Nooooo noooooo; noo noo no noooo no

wife in the wilderness of waters, and the best of wives she is, though
nooo no noo nooooooooo no nooooo, noo noo nooo no noooo noo no, nooooo

she keeps so many moody secrets.
noo noooo no nooo noooo noooooo.




The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously
Noo noooooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo noo nooooooo noooo, nooooooooo

mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools. For while
noooooooo, noooo n nooooo nooooooo no noo noooo noooooo. Noo noooo

those female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, or
noooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooooooooooooooo noooo, noo noooo noooo, no

forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious
noooo-nooooo-noooo, no nooo nooo nooo, noo no noo noo nooo nooooooooo

of all Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter;
no noo Nooooooooo, noo nooooooooooo noo nooo noooooooo no noooooooo;

excepting those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met,
noooooooo noooo nooooooo nooo-nooooo, nooooooo nooooo, noooooooo noo,

and these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.
noo noooo nooo noooo noo nooo nooo nooooo noooooooooo no n noooo nooo.




The Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than the harem schools. Like
Noo Noooo-nooooo-nooo noooooo noo nooooo nooo noo noooo noooooo. Nooo

a mob of young collegians, they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness,
n noo no noooo nooooooooo, nooo noo nooo no noooo, noo, noo nooooooooo,

tumbling round the world at such a reckless, rollicking rate, that no
nooooooo noooo noo noooo no nooo n nooooooo, nooooooooo nooo, nooo no

prudent underwriter would insure them any more than he would a riotous
noooooo noooooooooo noooo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooo no noooo n noooooo

lad at Yale or Harvard. They soon relinquish this turbulence though,
noo no Nooo no Noooooo. Nooo nooo nooooooooo nooo nooooooooo nooooo,

and when about three-fourths grown, break up, and separately go about in
noo nooo noooo noooo-noooooo noooo, noooo no, noo nooooooooo no noooo no

quest of settlements, that is, harems.
noooo no noooooooooo, nooo no, nooooo.




Another point of difference between the male and female schools is
Noooooo noooo no nooooooooo noooooo noo nooo noo nooooo noooooo no

still more characteristic of the sexes. Say you strike a
noooo nooo nooooooooooooo no noo noooo. Noo noo nooooo n

Forty-barrel-bull--poor devil! all his comrades quit him. But strike
Noooo-nooooo-nooo--nooo noooo! noo noo nooooooo nooo noo. Noo nooooo

a member of the harem school, and her companions swim around her with
n nooooo no noo noooo nooooo, noo noo nooooooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo

every token of concern, sometimes lingering so near her and so long, as
noooo noooo no noooooo, noooooooo noooooooo no nooo noo noo no nooo, no

themselves to fall a prey.
nooooooooo no nooo n nooo.










CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.
NOOOOOO no. Nooo-Nooo noo Noooo-Nooo.







The allusion to the waif and waif-poles in the last chapter but one,
Noo nooooooo no noo nooo noo nooo-noooo no noo nooo noooooo noo noo,

necessitates some account of the laws and regulations of the whale
nooooooooooo nooo noooooo no noo nooo noo noooooooooo no noo noooo

fishery, of which the waif may be deemed the grand symbol and badge.
noooooo, no noooo noo nooo noo no nooooo noo noooo nooooo noo noooo.




It frequently happens that when several ships are cruising in company,
No nooooooooo noooooo nooo nooo noooooo noooo noo nooooooo no noooooo,

a whale may be struck by one vessel, then escape, and be finally killed
n noooo noo no nooooo no noo nooooo, nooo nooooo, noo no noooooo nooooo

and captured by another vessel; and herein are indirectly comprised
noo nooooooo no noooooo nooooo; noo nooooo noo nooooooooo noooooooo

many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature. For
nooo noooo noooooooooooo, noo noooooooo no nooo noo noooo noooooo. Noo

example,--after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale,
noooooo,--noooo n noooo noo nooooooo noooo noo noooooo no n noooo,

the body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and
noo nooo noo noo noooo nooo noo nooo no nooooo no n noooooo noooo; noo

drifting far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in a
nooooooo noo nooo no noooooo, no noooooo no n nooooo nooooo, noo, no n

calm, snugly tows it alongside, without risk of life or line. Thus
nooo, nooooo nooo no noooooooo, noooooo nooo no nooo no nooo. Nooo

the most vexatious and violent disputes would often arise between
noo nooo noooooooo noo noooooo nooooooo noooo noooo noooo noooooo

the fishermen, were there not some written or unwritten, universal,
noo noooooooo, nooo noooo noo nooo noooooo no noooooooo, noooooooo,

undisputed law applicable to all cases.
nooooooooo noo nooooooooo no noo noooo.




Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative
Noooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooo nooo nooooooooo no noooooooooo

enactment, was that of Holland. It was decreed by the States-General in
noooooooo, noo nooo no Noooooo. No noo noooooo no noo Nooooo-Noooooo no

A.D. 1695. But though no other nation has ever had any written whaling
N.N. nooo. Noo nooooo no noooo nooooo noo nooo noo noo noooooo noooooo

law, yet the American fishermen have been their own legislators and
noo, noo noo Nooooooo noooooooo nooo nooo noooo noo noooooooooo noo

lawyers in this matter. They have provided a system which for terse
noooooo no nooo nooooo. Nooo nooo nooooooo n nooooo noooo noo noooo

comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian's Pandects and the By-laws of
noooooooooooooooo noooooooo Noooooooo'n Nooooooo noo noo No-nooo no

the Chinese Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other People's
noo Noooooo Noooooo noo noo Noooooooooo no Nooooooo nooo noooo Nooooo'n

Business. Yes; these laws might be engraven on a Queen Anne's farthing,
Nooooooo. Noo; noooo nooo noooo no nooooooo no n Noooo Nooo'n nooooooo,

or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so small are they.
no noo nooo no n noooooo, noo nooo noooo noo nooo, no noooo noo nooo.




I. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it.
N. N Nooo-Nooo noooooo no noo noooo nooo no no.




II. A Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.
NO. N Noooo-Nooo no nooo nooo noo noooooo noo noo noooooo noooo no.




But what plays the mischief with this masterly code is the admirable
Noo nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo no noo noooooooo

brevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to
noooooo no no, noooo nooooooooooo n nooo nooooo no nooooooooooo no

expound it.
noooooo no.




First: What is a Fast-Fish? Alive or dead a fish is technically fast,
Noooo: Nooo no n Nooo-Nooo? Noooo no nooo n nooo no noooooooooo nooo,

when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at all
nooo no no noooooooo nooo no nooooooo nooo no nooo, no noo nooooo no noo

controllable by the occupant or occupants,--a mast, an oar, a nine-inch
nooooooooooo no noo nooooooo no noooooooo,--n nooo, no noo, n nooo-nooo

cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all the same.
noooo, n noooooooo nooo, no n nooooo no nooooo, no no noo noo nooo.

Likewise a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any other
Nooooooo n nooo no noooooooooo nooo nooo no noooo n nooo, no noo noooo

recognised symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing it plainly
nooooooooo nooooo no nooooooooo; no nooo no noo noooo noooooo no noooooo

evince their ability at any time to take it alongside, as well as their
nooooo noooo noooooo no noo nooo no nooo no noooooooo, no nooo no noooo

intention so to do.
noooooooo no no no.




These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen
Noooo noo nooooooooo nooooooooooo; noo noo nooooooooooo no noo nooooooo

themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks--the
nooooooooo noooooooo noooooo no nooo noooo noo nooooo nooooo--noo

Coke-upon-Littleton of the fist. True, among the more upright and
Nooo-nooo-Noooooooo no noo nooo. Nooo, noooo noo nooo noooooo noo

honourable whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases,
nooooooooo nooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo,

where it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim
noooo no noooo no no nooooooooo noooo noooooooo noo noo noooo no noooo

possession of a whale previously chased or killed by another party. But
nooooooooo no n noooo nooooooooo nooooo no nooooo no noooooo noooo. Noo

others are by no means so scrupulous.
nooooo noo no no noooo no nooooooooo.




Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover litigated
Nooo noooo noooo noo noooo noo n noooooo nooo no noooo-nooooo noooooooo

in England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase of
no Noooooo, noooooo noo nooooooooo noo noooo nooo noooo n nooo noooo no

a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs) had
n noooo no noo Nooooooo nooo; noo nooo nooooo nooo (noo nooooooooo) noo

succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of
noooooooo no nooooooooo noo nooo; nooo nooo no nooo, noooooo noooo no

their lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat
noooo noooo, noooooo no noooooo noo nooo noooo noooo, noo noooo nooo

itself. Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up
nooooo. Nooooooooo noo nooooooooo (noo nooo no noooooo nooo) nooo no

with the whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it
nooo noo noooo, nooooo, nooooo, nooooo, noo noooooo nooooooooooo no

before the very eyes of the plaintiffs. And when those defendants were
nooooo noo nooo nooo no noo nooooooooo. Noo nooo noooo nooooooooo nooo

remonstrated with, their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs'
nooooooooooo nooo, noooo noooooo noooooo noo noooooo no noo nooooooooo'

teeth, and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he had done,
noooo, noo noooooo nooo nooo no noo no nooooooo no noo nooo no noo nooo,

he would now retain their line, harpoons, and boat, which had remained
no noooo noo nooooo noooo nooo, nooooooo, noo nooo, noooo noo nooooooo

attached to the whale at the time of the seizure. Wherefore the
nooooooo no noo noooo no noo nooo no noo noooooo. Noooooooo noo

plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale, line,
nooooooooo noo nooo noo noo nooooooo no noo noooo no noooo noooo, nooo,

harpoons, and boat.
nooooooo, noo nooo.




Mr. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was
No. Noooooo noo noooooo noo noo nooooooooo; Nooo Nooooooooooo noo

the judge. In the course of the defence, the witty Erskine went on
noo noooo. No noo nooooo no noo noooooo, noo noooo Noooooo nooo no

to illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent crim. con.
no nooooooooo noo nooooooo, no nooooooo no n nooooo nooo. noo.

case, wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his wife's
nooo, noooooo n noooooooo, noooo no nooo nooooo no nooooo noo nooo'n

viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life; but in
noooooooooo, noo no nooo noooooooo noo nooo noo nooo no nooo; noo no

the course of years, repenting of that step, he instituted an action to
noo nooooo no noooo, noooooooo no nooo nooo, no nooooooooo no nooooo no

recover possession of her. Erskine was on the other side; and he
noooooo nooooooooo no noo. Noooooo noo no noo noooo nooo; noo no

then supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had originally
nooo noooooooo no no nooooo, nooo nooooo noo noooooooo noo nooooooooo

harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason of the
noooooooo noo nooo, noo noo nooo noo noo nooo, noo nooo no nooooo no noo

great stress of her plunging viciousness, had at last abandoned her; yet
noooo nooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooooo, noo no nooo noooooooo noo; noo

abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and therefore
noooooo noo no noo, no nooo noo nooooo n noooo-nooo; noo noooooooo

when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then became that
nooo n nooooooooo noooooooo no-noooooooo noo, noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo

subsequent gentleman's property, along with whatever harpoon might have
nooooooooo noooooooo'n nooooooo, noooo nooo nooooooo noooooo noooo nooo

been found sticking in her.
nooo noooo nooooooo no noo.




Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples of the whale
Noo no noo noooooo nooo Noooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo

and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other.
noo noo nooo nooo nooooooooooo nooooooooooo no nooo noooo.




These pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very
Noooo noooooooo, noo noo noooooo noooooooo, noooo nooo noooo, noo nooo

learned Judge in set terms decided, to wit,--That as for the boat, he
noooooo Noooo no noo noooo noooooo, no noo,--Nooo no noo noo nooo, no

awarded it to the plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it
noooooo no no noo nooooooooo, noooooo nooo noo nooooo noooooooo no

to save their lives; but that with regard to the controverted whale,
no nooo noooo noooo; noo nooo nooo nooooo no noo nooooooooooo noooo,

harpoons, and line, they belonged to the defendants; the whale, because
nooooooo, noo nooo, nooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooo; noo noooo, noooooo

it was a Loose-Fish at the time of the final capture; and the harpoons
no noo n Noooo-Nooo no noo nooo no noo noooo noooooo; noo noo nooooooo

and line because when the fish made off with them, it (the fish)
noo nooo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo nooo, no (noo nooo)

acquired a property in those articles; and hence anybody who afterwards
nooooooo n nooooooo no noooo nooooooo; noo noooo noooooo noo nooooooooo

took the fish had a right to them. Now the defendants afterwards took
nooo noo nooo noo n noooo no nooo. Noo noo nooooooooo nooooooooo nooo

the fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs.
noo nooo; nooo, noo noooooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo.




A common man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might
N nooooo noo noooooo no nooo nooooooo no noo nooo noooooo Noooo, noooo

possibly object to it. But ploughed up to the primary rock of the
nooooooo nooooo no no. Noo nooooooo no no noo noooooo nooo no noo

matter, the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling laws
nooooo, noo noo noooo nooooooooo nooo nooo no noo nooo noooooo nooo

previously quoted, and applied and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in
nooooooooo nooooo, noo noooooo noo nooooooooo no Nooo Nooooooooooo no

the above cited case; these two laws touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish,
noo noooo noooo nooo; noooo noo nooo nooooooo Nooo-Nooo noo Noooo-Nooo,

I say, will, on reflection, be found the fundamentals of all human
N noo, nooo, no nooooooooo, no noooo noo nooooooooooo no noo noooo

jurisprudence; for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of sculpture,
noooooooooooo; noo noooooooooooooo noo noooooooooo noooooo no noooooooo,

the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the Philistines, has but two
noo Nooooo no noo Noo, nooo noo Nooooo no noo Noooooooooo, noo noo noo

props to stand on.
noooo no noooo no.




Is it not a saying in every one's mouth, Possession is half of the law:
No no noo n nooooo no noooo noo'n noooo, Nooooooooo no nooo no noo noo:

that is, regardless of how the thing came into possession? But often
nooo no, nooooooooo no noo noo noooo nooo nooo nooooooooo? Noo noooo

possession is the whole of the law. What are the sinews and souls of
nooooooooo no noo noooo no noo noo. Nooo noo noo nooooo noo noooo no

Russian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is
Noooooo noooo noo Nooooooooo nooooo noo Nooo-Nooo, noooooo nooooooooo no

the whole of the law? What to the rapacious landlord is the widow's last
noo noooo no noo noo? Nooo no noo noooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo'n nooo

mite but a Fast-Fish? What is yonder undetected villain's marble mansion
nooo noo n Nooo-Nooo? Nooo no nooooo nooooooooo noooooo'n nooooo noooooo

with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish? What is the
nooo n nooo-noooo noo n nooo; nooo no nooo noo n Nooo-Nooo? Nooo no noo

ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker, gets from poor Woebegone,
noooooo nooooooo noooo Nooooooo, noo nooooo, nooo nooo nooo Noooooooo,

the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family from starvation;
noo nooooooo, no n nooo no nooo Noooooooo'n nooooo nooo nooooooooo;

what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish? What is the Archbishop of
nooo no nooo noooooo nooooooo noo n Nooo-Nooo? Nooo no noo Nooooooooo no

Savesoul's income of L100,000 seized from the scant bread and cheese
Nooooooo'n nooooo no NOOO,noo nooooo nooo noo noooo noooo noo nooooo

of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure of heaven
no nooooooo no noooooooo no nooooo-nooooo nooooooo (noo nooo no nooooo

without any of Savesoul's help) what is that globular L100,000 but a
noooooo noo no Nooooooo'n nooo) nooo no nooo nooooooo NOOO,noo noo n

Fast-Fish? What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets
Nooo-Nooo? Nooo noo noo Nooo no Nooooo'n nooooooooo noooo noo noooooo

but Fast-Fish? What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor
noo Nooo-Nooo? Nooo no nooo noooooooo nooooooooo, Nooo Nooo, no nooo

Ireland, but a Fast-Fish? What to that apostolic lancer, Brother
Noooooo, noo n Nooo-Nooo? Nooo no nooo noooooooo nooooo, Noooooo

Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish? And concerning all these, is not
Nooooooo, no Noooo noo n Nooo-Nooo? Noo nooooooooo noo noooo, no noo

Possession the whole of the law?
Nooooooooo noo noooo no noo noo?




But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable,
Noo no noo nooooooo no Nooo-Nooo no nooooo noooooooo nooooooooo,

the kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so. That is
noo noooooo nooooooo no Noooo-Nooo no noooo nooo nooooo no. Nooo no

internationally and universally applicable.
noooooooooooooo noo noooooooooo nooooooooo.




What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the
Nooo noo Noooooo no nooo noo n Noooo-Nooo, no noooo Nooooooo nooooo noo

Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and mistress?
Noooooo nooooooo no noo no noooooo no noo noo noooo nooooo noo nooooooo?

What was Poland to the Czar? What Greece to the Turk? What India
Nooo noo Nooooo no noo Nooo? Nooo Nooooo no noo Nooo? Nooo Noooo

to England? What at last will Mexico be to the United States? All
no Noooooo? Nooo no nooo nooo Nooooo no no noo Nooooo Nooooo? Noo

Loose-Fish.
Noooo-Nooo.




What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but
Nooo noo noo Nooooo no Noo noo noo Noooooooo no noo Noooo noo

Loose-Fish? What all men's minds and opinions but Loose-Fish? What is
Noooo-Nooo? Nooo noo noo'n noooo noo nooooooo noo Noooo-Nooo? Nooo no

the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish? What to
noo noooooooo no noooooooo nooooo no nooo noo n Noooo-Nooo? Nooo no

the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but
noo nooooooooooo noooooooo nooooooooo noo noo nooooooo no nooooooo noo

Loose-Fish? What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish? And what
Noooo-Nooo? Nooo no noo noooo noooo nooooo noo n Noooo-Nooo? Noo nooo

are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?
noo noo, nooooo, noo n Noooo-Nooo noo n Nooo-Nooo, noo?










CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.
NOOOOOO no. Noooo no Noooo.







"De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam."
"No nooooo nooo nooooooo, no noo nooooo noooo, no nooooo nooooo."

BRACTON, L. 3, C. 3.
NOOOOOO, N. n, N. n.







Latin from the books of the Laws of England, which taken along with the
Noooo nooo noo noooo no noo Nooo no Noooooo, noooo noooo noooo nooo noo

context, means, that of all whales captured by anybody on the coast of
noooooo, noooo, nooo no noo nooooo nooooooo no noooooo no noo noooo no

that land, the King, as Honourary Grand Harpooneer, must have the head,
nooo nooo, noo Nooo, no Noooooooo Noooo Nooooooooo, nooo nooo noo nooo,

and the Queen be respectfully presented with the tail. A division which,
noo noo Noooo no nooooooooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooo. N nooooooo noooo,

in the whale, is much like halving an apple; there is no intermediate
no noo noooo, no nooo nooo noooooo no noooo; noooo no no nooooooooooo

remainder. Now as this law, under a modified form, is to this day in
noooooooo. Noo no nooo noo, noooo n nooooooo nooo, no no nooo noo no

force in England; and as it offers in various respects a strange anomaly
noooo no Noooooo; noo no no nooooo no noooooo nooooooo n noooooo noooooo

touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is here treated of
nooooooo noo noooooo noo no Nooo noo Noooo-Nooo, no no nooo noooooo no

in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle that prompts
no n nooooooo noooooo, no noo nooo noooooooo noooooooo nooo noooooo

the English railways to be at the expense of a separate car, specially
noo Noooooo nooooooo no no no noo noooooo no n nooooooo noo, noooooooo

reserved for the accommodation of royalty. In the first place, in
nooooooo noo noo noooooooooooo no noooooo. No noo noooo noooo, no

curious proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is still in
noooooo noooo no noo nooo nooo noo noooo-noooooooo noo no noooo no

force, I proceed to lay before you a circumstance that happened within
noooo, N noooooo no noo nooooo noo n nooooooooooo nooo nooooooo nooooo

the last two years.
noo nooo noo noooo.




It seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some one
No noooo nooo nooo nooooo nooooooo no Noooo, no Nooooooo, no nooo noo

of the Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and
no noo Nooooo Noooo, noo noooo n nooo noooo noooooooo no noooooo noo

beaching a fine whale which they had originally descried afar off from
nooooooo n nooo noooo noooo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo

the shore. Now the Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the
noo noooo. Noo noo Nooooo Noooo noo noooooooo no noooooo noooo noo

jurisdiction of a sort of policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.
nooooooooooo no n nooo no noooooooo no nooooo, nooooo n Nooo Nooooo.

Holding the office directly from the crown, I believe, all the royal
Noooooo noo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo, N noooooo, noo noo noooo

emoluments incident to the Cinque Port territories become by assignment
nooooooooo nooooooo no noo Nooooo Nooo noooooooooo nooooo no nooooooooo

his. By some writers this office is called a sinecure. But not so.
noo. No nooo noooooo nooo nooooo no nooooo n nooooooo. Noo noo no.

Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times in fobbing his
Noooooo noo Nooo Nooooo no nooooo nooooooo no noooo no noooooo noo

perquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing of
noooooooooo; noooo noo noo noooooo no nooooo no nooo nooo noooooo no

them.
nooo.




Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and with their
Noo nooo noooo nooo noo-noooo nooooooo, nooo-nooooo, noo nooo noooo

trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled their fat
nooooooo nooooo nooo no no noooo nooo nooo, noo noooooo nooooo noooo noo

fish high and dry, promising themselves a good L150 from the precious
nooo nooo noo noo, noooooooo nooooooooo n nooo NOOO nooo noo nooooooo

oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their wives, and good
noo noo nooo; noo no noooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo noooo noooo, noo nooo

ale with their cronies, upon the strength of their respective shares; up
noo nooo noooo noooooo, nooo noo nooooooo no noooo nooooooooo nooooo; no

steps a very learned and most Christian and charitable gentleman, with
noooo n nooo noooooo noo nooo Noooooooo noo nooooooooo noooooooo, nooo

a copy of Blackstone under his arm; and laying it upon the whale's head,
n nooo no Nooooooooo noooo noo noo; noo nooooo no nooo noo noooo'n nooo,

he says--"Hands off! this fish, my masters, is a Fast-Fish. I seize it
no nooo--"Noooo noo! nooo nooo, no noooooo, no n Nooo-Nooo. N noooo no

as the Lord Warden's." Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful
no noo Nooo Nooooo'n." Nooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo no noooo nooooooooo

consternation--so truly English--knowing not what to say, fall to
noooooooooooo--no noooo Noooooo--noooooo noo nooo no noo, nooo no

vigorously scratching their heads all round; meanwhile ruefully glancing
nooooooooo nooooooooo noooo noooo noo noooo; noooooooo nooooooo nooooooo

from the whale to the stranger. But that did in nowise mend the matter,
nooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo. Noo nooo noo no nooooo nooo noo nooooo,

or at all soften the hard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy
no no noo nooooo noo nooo noooo no noo noooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooo

of Blackstone. At length one of them, after long scratching about for
no Nooooooooo. No nooooo noo no nooo, noooo nooo nooooooooo noooo noo

his ideas, made bold to speak,
noo noooo, nooo nooo no noooo,




"Please, sir, who is the Lord Warden?"
"Nooooo, noo, noo no noo Nooo Nooooo?"




"The Duke."
"Noo Nooo."




"But the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish?"
"Noo noo nooo noo noooooo no no nooo nooooo nooo nooo?"




"It is his."
"No no noo."




"We have been at great trouble, and peril, and some expense, and is
"No nooo nooo no noooo noooooo, noo noooo, noo nooo noooooo, noo no

all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we getting nothing at all for our
noo nooo no no no noo Nooo'n noooooo; no noooooo noooooo no noo noo noo

pains but our blisters?"
noooo noo noo nooooooo?"




"It is his."
"No no noo."




"Is the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of
"No noo Nooo no nooo nooo no no no nooooo no nooo noooooooo nooo no

getting a livelihood?"
noooooo n nooooooooo?"




"It is his."
"No no noo."




"I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by part of my share of
"N noooooo no noooooo no noo noo-nooooo nooooo no nooo no no noooo no

this whale."
nooo noooo."




"It is his."
"No no noo."




"Won't the Duke be content with a quarter or a half?"
"Noo'n noo Nooo no noooooo nooo n noooooo no n nooo?"




"It is his."
"No no noo."




In a word, the whale was seized and sold, and his Grace the Duke of
No n nooo, noo noooo noo nooooo noo nooo, noo noo Noooo noo Nooo no

Wellington received the money. Thinking that viewed in some particular
Nooooooooo nooooooo noo noooo. Nooooooo nooo nooooo no nooo nooooooooo

lights, the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be
nooooo, noo nooo noooo no n nooo noooooooooo no nooo noooo nooooo no

deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an honest clergyman
nooooo, noooo noo noooooooooooo, n nooooo nooo noo, no nooooo noooooooo

of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace, begging him to
no noo nooo nooooooooooo noooooooo n nooo no noo Noooo, noooooo noo no

take the case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration. To
nooo noo nooo no noooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo noooooooooooo. No

which my Lord Duke in substance replied (both letters were published)
noooo no Nooo Nooo no noooooooo noooooo (nooo noooooo nooo noooooooo)

that he had already done so, and received the money, and would be
nooo no noo noooooo nooo no, noo nooooooo noo noooo, noo noooo no

obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverend
noooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo no noo noo nooooo no (noo nooooooo

gentleman) would decline meddling with other people's business. Is
noooooooo) noooo noooooo nooooooo nooo noooo nooooo'n nooooooo. No

this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
nooo noo noooo nooooooo noo noo, nooooooo no noo noooooo no noo noooo

kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?
nooooooo, no noo noooo nooooooo nooo no noooooo?




It will readily be seen that in this case the alleged right of the
No nooo noooooo no nooo nooo no nooo nooo noo noooooo noooo no noo

Duke to the whale was a delegated one from the Sovereign. We must needs
Nooo no noo noooo noo n noooooooo noo nooo noo Noooooooo. No nooo noooo

inquire then on what principle the Sovereign is originally invested with
noooooo nooo no nooo noooooooo noo Noooooooo no nooooooooo nooooooo nooo

that right. The law itself has already been set forth. But Plowdon gives
nooo noooo. Noo noo nooooo noo noooooo nooo noo noooo. Noo Noooooo noooo

us the reason for it. Says Plowdon, the whale so caught belongs to
no noo nooooo noo no. Nooo Noooooo, noo noooo no nooooo noooooo no

the King and Queen, "because of its superior excellence." And by the
noo Nooo noo Noooo, "noooooo no noo nooooooo nooooooooo." Noo no noo

soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument in such
nooooooo nooooooooooo nooo noo nooo nooo nooo n nooooo nooooooo no nooo

matters.
noooooo.




But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the tail? A reason
Noo noo nooooo noo Nooo nooo noo nooo, noo noo Noooo noo nooo? N nooooo

for that, ye lawyers!
noo nooo, no noooooo!




In his treatise on "Queen-Gold," or Queen-pinmoney, an old King's Bench
No noo nooooooo no "Noooo-Nooo," no Noooo-nooooooo, no noo Nooo'n Noooo

author, one William Prynne, thus discourseth: "Ye tail is ye Queen's,
nooooo, noo Noooooo Nooooo, nooo noooooooooo: "No nooo no no Noooo'n,

that ye Queen's wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone." Now this
nooo no Noooo'n nooooooo noo no nooooooo nooo no noooooooo." Noo nooo

was written at a time when the black limber bone of the Greenland or
noo noooooo no n nooo nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo no noo Noooooooo no

Right whale was largely used in ladies' bodices. But this same bone
Noooo noooo noo noooooo nooo no nooooo' noooooo. Noo nooo nooo nooo

is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for
no noo no noo nooo; no no no noo nooo, noooo no n noo noooooo noo

a sagacious lawyer like Prynne. But is the Queen a mermaid, to be
n noooooooo nooooo nooo Nooooo. Noo no noo Noooo n noooooo, no no

presented with a tail? An allegorical meaning may lurk here.
noooooooo nooo n nooo? No noooooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooo.




There are two royal fish so styled by the English law writers--the whale
Noooo noo noo noooo nooo no nooooo no noo Noooooo noo noooooo--noo noooo

and the sturgeon; both royal property under certain limitations, and
noo noo nooooooo; nooo noooo nooooooo noooo noooooo noooooooooo, noo

nominally supplying the tenth branch of the crown's ordinary revenue.
noooooooo noooooooo noo noooo nooooo no noo noooo'n nooooooo noooooo.

I know not that any other author has hinted of the matter; but by
N nooo noo nooo noo noooo nooooo noo nooooo no noo nooooo; noo no

inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be divided in the same
noooooooo no noooo no no nooo noo nooooooo nooo no noooooo no noo nooo

way as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and elastic head
noo no noo noooo, noo Nooo noooooooo noo nooooo noooo noo noooooo nooo

peculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may possibly be
nooooooo no nooo nooo, noooo, nooooooooooo nooooooo, noo nooooooo no

humorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality. And thus there
nooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooooooooooo. Noo nooo noooo

seems a reason in all things, even in law.
noooo n nooooo no noo nooooo, nooo no noo.










CHAPTER 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooo Noooo Noo Nooo-Noo.







"In vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan,
"No nooo no noo no nooo noo Noooooooooo no noo nooooo no nooo Noooooooo,

insufferable fetor denying not inquiry." SIR T. BROWNE, V.E.
nooooooooooo noooo noooooo noo noooooo." NOO N. NOOOOO, N.N.







It was a week or two after the last whaling scene recounted, and when we
No noo n nooo no noo noooo noo nooo noooooo noooo noooooooo, noo nooo no

were slowly sailing over a sleepy, vapoury, mid-day sea, that the many
nooo nooooo noooooo nooo n nooooo, noooooo, noo-noo noo, nooo noo nooo

noses on the Pequod's deck proved more vigilant discoverers than the
noooo no noo Nooooo'n nooo nooooo nooo nooooooo noooooooooo nooo noo

three pairs of eyes aloft. A peculiar and not very pleasant smell was
noooo noooo no nooo noooo. N nooooooo noo noo nooo nooooooo noooo noo

smelt in the sea.
noooo no noo noo.




"I will bet something now," said Stubb, "that somewhere hereabouts are
"N nooo noo noooooooo noo," nooo Noooo, "nooo noooooooo nooooooooo noo

some of those drugged whales we tickled the other day. I thought they
nooo no noooo noooooo nooooo no noooooo noo noooo noo. N noooooo nooo

would keel up before long."
noooo nooo no nooooo nooo."




Presently, the vapours in advance slid aside; and there in the distance
Noooooooo, noo noooooo no noooooo nooo noooo; noo noooo no noo nooooooo

lay a ship, whose furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be
noo n nooo, noooo nooooo noooo noooooooo nooo nooo nooo no noooo nooo no

alongside. As we glided nearer, the stranger showed French colours from
noooooooo. No no nooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo nooooo Nooooo noooooo nooo

his peak; and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that circled, and
noo nooo; noo no noo noooooo noooo no noooooo noo-nooo nooo noooooo, noo

hovered, and swooped around him, it was plain that the whale alongside
noooooo, noo noooooo nooooo noo, no noo noooo nooo noo noooo noooooooo

must be what the fishermen call a blasted whale, that is, a whale that
nooo no nooo noo noooooooo nooo n noooooo noooo, nooo no, n noooo nooo

has died unmolested on the sea, and so floated an unappropriated corpse.
noo nooo nooooooooo no noo noo, noo no noooooo no nooooooooooooo nooooo.

It may well be conceived, what an unsavory odor such a mass must
No noo nooo no noooooooo, nooo no nooooooo nooo nooo n nooo nooo

exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague, when the living are
nooooo; noooo nooo no Nooooooo nooo no noo nooooo, nooo noo nooooo noo

incompetent to bury the departed. So intolerable indeed is it regarded
noooooooooo no nooo noo nooooooo. No noooooooooo nooooo no no nooooooo

by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to moor alongside of it.
no nooo, nooo no nooooooo noooo nooooooo nooo no nooo noooooooo no no.

Yet are there those who will still do it; notwithstanding the fact that
Noo noo noooo noooo noo nooo noooo no no; noooooooooooooo noo nooo nooo

the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior quality, and
noo noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo no no n nooo nooooooo noooooo, noo

by no means of the nature of attar-of-rose.
no no noooo no noo nooooo no noooo-no-nooo.




Coming still nearer with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman
Nooooo noooo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooo, no noo nooo noo Noooooooo

had a second whale alongside; and this second whale seemed even more
noo n nooooo noooo noooooooo; noo nooo nooooo noooo nooooo nooo nooo

of a nosegay than the first. In truth, it turned out to be one of
no n noooooo nooo noo noooo. No noooo, no nooooo noo no no noo no

those problematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort
noooo noooooooooooo nooooo nooo nooo no noo no noo noo nooo n nooo

of prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion; leaving their defunct bodies
no nooooooooo noooooooo, no noooooooooo; noooooo noooo noooooo nooooo

almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. Nevertheless, in the
nooooo nooooooo nooooooo no nooooooo nooo noo. Nooooooooooo, no noo

proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn
nooooo noooo no noooo noo nooo no noooooo noooooooo nooo nooo nooo

up his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun blasted
no noo nooo no nooo n noooo no nooo, noooooo nooo no noo nooo noooooo

whales in general.
nooooo no noooooo.




The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger, that Stubb vowed
Noo Nooooo noo noo noooo no nooo no noo nooooooo, nooo Noooo noooo

he recognised his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines that were
no nooooooooo noo noooooo noooo-nooo noooooooo no noo noooo nooo nooo

knotted round the tail of one of these whales.
noooooo noooo noo nooo no noo no noooo nooooo.




"There's a pretty fellow, now," he banteringly laughed, standing in the
"Noooo'n n nooooo nooooo, noo," no noooooooooo noooooo, nooooooo no noo

ship's bows, "there's a jackal for ye! I well know that these Crappoes
nooo'n nooo, "noooo'n n nooooo noo no! N nooo nooo nooo noooo Nooooooo

of Frenchmen are but poor devils in the fishery; sometimes lowering
no Noooooooo noo noo nooo nooooo no noo noooooo; noooooooo nooooooo

their boats for breakers, mistaking them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes,
noooo noooo noo nooooooo, noooooooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo nooooo; noo,

and sometimes sailing from their port with their hold full of boxes of
noo noooooooo noooooo nooo noooo nooo nooo noooo nooo nooo no noooo no

tallow candles, and cases of snuffers, foreseeing that all the oil they
nooooo noooooo, noo noooo no nooooooo, nooooooooo nooo noo noo noo nooo

will get won't be enough to dip the Captain's wick into; aye, we all
nooo noo noo'n no nooooo no noo noo Noooooo'n nooo nooo; noo, no noo

know these things; but look ye, here's a Crappo that is content with our
nooo noooo nooooo; noo nooo no, nooo'n n Nooooo nooo no noooooo nooo noo

leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and is content too with
nooooooo, noo noooooo noooo noooo, N nooo; noo, noo no noooooo noo nooo

scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has there. Poor
nooooooo noo noo noooo no nooo noooo nooooooo nooo no noo noooo. Nooo

devil! I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let's make him a present
noooo! N noo, nooo noooo n noo, nooo noo, noo noo'n nooo noo n noooooo

of a little oil for dear charity's sake. For what oil he'll get from
no n nooooo noo noo nooo noooooo'n nooo. Noo nooo noo no'no noo nooo

that drugged whale there, wouldn't be fit to burn in a jail; no, not
nooo noooooo noooo noooo, nooooo'n no noo no nooo no n nooo; no, noo

in a condemned cell. And as for the other whale, why, I'll agree to get
no n noooooooo nooo. Noo no noo noo noooo noooo, noo, N'no noooo no noo

more oil by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours, than
nooo noo no nooooooo no noo nooooo noo noooo noooo noooo no nooo, nooo

he'll get from that bundle of bones; though, now that I think of it, it
no'no noo nooo nooo nooooo no noooo; nooooo, noo nooo N noooo no no, no

may contain something worth a good deal more than oil; yes, ambergris.
noo noooooo noooooooo noooo n nooo nooo nooo nooo noo; noo, noooooooo.

I wonder now if our old man has thought of that. It's worth trying. Yes,
N nooooo noo no noo noo noo noo noooooo no nooo. No'n noooo nooooo. Noo,

I'm for it;" and so saying he started for the quarter-deck.
N'n noo no;" noo no nooooo no noooooo noo noo noooooo-nooo.




By this time the faint air had become a complete calm; so that whether
No nooo nooo noo noooo noo noo nooooo n nooooooo nooo; no nooo noooooo

or no, the Pequod was now fairly entrapped in the smell, with no hope of
no no, noo Nooooo noo noo nooooo noooooooo no noo noooo, nooo no nooo no

escaping except by its breezing up again. Issuing from the cabin, Stubb
nooooooo nooooo no noo nooooooo no noooo. Noooooo nooo noo noooo, Noooo

now called his boat's crew, and pulled off for the stranger. Drawing
noo nooooo noo nooo'n nooo, noo nooooo noo noo noo nooooooo. Noooooo

across her bow, he perceived that in accordance with the fanciful French
nooooo noo noo, no noooooooo nooo no nooooooooo nooo noo nooooooo Nooooo

taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved in the likeness of a
noooo, noo noooo nooo no noo nooo-noooo noo nooooo no noo nooooooo no n

huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for thorns had copper
nooo nooooooo noooo, noo noooooo noooo, noo noo nooooo noo nooooo

spikes projecting from it here and there; the whole terminating in a
nooooo nooooooooo nooo no nooo noo noooo; noo noooo noooooooooo no n

symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour. Upon her head boards, in
noooooooooo nooooo nooo no n nooooo noo nooooo. Nooo noo nooo nooooo, no

large gilt letters, he read "Bouton de Rose,"--Rose-button, or Rose-bud;
noooo nooo noooooo, no nooo "Nooooo no Nooo,"--Nooo-nooooo, no Nooo-noo;

and this was the romantic name of this aromatic ship.
noo nooo noo noo nooooooo nooo no nooo nooooooo nooo.




Though Stubb did not understand the BOUTON part of the inscription, yet
Nooooo Noooo noo noo nooooooooo noo NOOOOO nooo no noo noooooooooo, noo

the word ROSE, and the bulbous figure-head put together, sufficiently
noo nooo NOOO, noo noo noooooo nooooo-nooo noo nooooooo, nooooooooooo

explained the whole to him.
noooooooo noo noooo no noo.




"A wooden rose-bud, eh?" he cried with his hand to his nose, "that will
"N nooooo nooo-noo, no?" no noooo nooo noo nooo no noo nooo, "nooo nooo

do very well; but how like all creation it smells!"
no nooo nooo; noo noo nooo noo nooooooo no nooooo!"




Now in order to hold direct communication with the people on deck, he
Noo no noooo no nooo nooooo noooooooooooo nooo noo nooooo no nooo, no

had to pull round the bows to the starboard side, and thus come close to
noo no nooo noooo noo nooo no noo noooooooo nooo, noo nooo nooo noooo no

the blasted whale; and so talk over it.
noo noooooo noooo; noo no nooo nooo no.




Arrived then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he
Noooooo nooo no nooo nooo, nooo noo nooo noooo no noo nooo, no

bawled--"Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy! are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses that
nooooo--"Nooooo-no-Nooo, nooo! noo noooo noo no noo Nooooo-no-Noooo nooo

speak English?"
noooo Noooooo?"




"Yes," rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out to be
"Noo," nooooooo n Nooooooo-noo nooo noo nooooooo, noo nooooo noo no no

the chief-mate.
noo noooo-nooo.




"Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale?"
"Nooo, nooo, no Nooooo-no-Nooo-noo, nooo noo nooo noo Noooo Noooo?"




"WHAT whale?"
"NOOO noooo?"




"The WHITE Whale--a Sperm Whale--Moby Dick, have ye seen him?
"Noo NOOOO Noooo--n Noooo Noooo--Nooo Nooo, nooo no nooo noo?




"Never heard of such a whale. Cachalot Blanche! White Whale--no."
"Noooo noooo no nooo n noooo. Nooooooo Noooooo! Noooo Noooo--no."




"Very good, then; good bye now, and I'll call again in a minute."
"Nooo nooo, nooo; nooo noo noo, noo N'no nooo noooo no n nooooo."




Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab leaning
Nooo noooooo noooooo nooo noooooo noo Nooooo, noo nooooo Nooo noooooo

over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two hands
nooo noo noooooo-nooo nooo nooooooo noo nooooo, no noooooo noo noo noooo

into a trumpet and shouted--"No, Sir! No!" Upon which Ahab retired, and
nooo n noooooo noo noooooo--"No, Noo! No!" Nooo noooo Nooo noooooo, noo

Stubb returned to the Frenchman.
Noooo nooooooo no noo Noooooooo.




He now perceived that the Guernsey-man, who had just got into the
No noo noooooooo nooo noo Nooooooo-noo, noo noo nooo noo nooo noo

chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his nose in a sort of
nooooo, noo noo noooo n noooooo-noooo, noo noooo noo nooo no n nooo no

bag.
noo.




"What's the matter with your nose, there?" said Stubb. "Broke it?"
"Nooo'n noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo, noooo?" nooo Noooo. "Noooo no?"




"I wish it was broken, or that I didn't have any nose at all!" answered
"N nooo no noo nooooo, no nooo N nooo'n nooo noo nooo no noo!" nooooooo

the Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very
noo Nooooooo-noo, noo noo noo nooo no nooooo noo noo no noo no nooo

much. "But what are you holding YOURS for?"
nooo. "Noo nooo noo noo noooooo NOOOO noo?"




"Oh, nothing! It's a wax nose; I have to hold it on. Fine day, ain't it?
"No, noooooo! No'n n noo nooo; N nooo no nooo no no. Nooo noo, noo'n no?

Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us a bunch of posies, will ye,
Noo nooooo nooooooo, N nooooo noo; noooo no n noooo no nooooo, nooo no,

Bouton-de-Rose?"
Nooooo-no-Nooo?"




"What in the devil's name do you want here?" roared the Guernseyman,
"Nooo no noo noooo'n nooo no noo nooo nooo?" nooooo noo Noooooooooo,

flying into a sudden passion.
nooooo nooo n nooooo noooooo.




"Oh! keep cool--cool? yes, that's the word! why don't you pack those
"No! nooo nooo--nooo? noo, nooo'n noo nooo! noo noo'n noo nooo noooo

whales in ice while you're working at 'em? But joking aside, though; do
nooooo no noo noooo noo'no noooooo no 'no? Noo nooooo noooo, nooooo; no

you know, Rose-bud, that it's all nonsense trying to get any oil out of
noo nooo, Nooo-noo, nooo no'n noo nooooooo nooooo no noo noo noo noo no

such whales? As for that dried up one, there, he hasn't a gill in his
nooo nooooo? No noo nooo noooo no noo, noooo, no nooo'n n nooo no noo

whole carcase."
noooo noooooo."




"I know that well enough; but, d'ye see, the Captain here won't believe
"N nooo nooo nooo nooooo; noo, n'no noo, noo Noooooo nooo noo'n noooooo

it; this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before. But
no; nooo no noo noooo nooooo; no noo n Noooooo nooooooooooo nooooo. Noo

come aboard, and mayhap he'll believe you, if he won't me; and so I'll
nooo nooooo, noo nooooo no'no noooooo noo, no no noo'n no; noo no N'no

get out of this dirty scrape."
noo noo no nooo noooo nooooo."




"Anything to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow," rejoined Stubb,
"Nooooooo no nooooo no, no noooo noo nooooooo nooooo," nooooooo Noooo,

and with that he soon mounted to the deck. There a queer scene presented
noo nooo nooo no nooo noooooo no noo nooo. Noooo n noooo noooo noooooooo

itself. The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were getting the
nooooo. Noo noooooo, no noooooooo nooo no noo noooooo, nooo noooooo noo

heavy tackles in readiness for the whales. But they worked rather slow
noooo noooooo no noooooooo noo noo nooooo. Noo nooo nooooo nooooo nooo

and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good humor. All their
noo nooooo nooo nooo, noo nooooo no nooooooo noo n nooo noooo. Noo noooo

noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms.
noooo nooooooo noooooooo nooo noooo noooo nooo no nooo noo-noooo.

Now and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up to the
Noo noo nooo noooo no nooo noooo nooo noooo nooo, noo noo no no noo

mast-head to get some fresh air. Some thinking they would catch the
nooo-nooo no noo nooo noooo noo. Nooo nooooooo nooo noooo noooo noo

plague, dipped oakum in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to their
nooooo, nooooo noooo no nooo-noo, noo no noooooooo nooo no no noooo

nostrils. Others having broken the stems of their pipes almost short
nooooooo. Nooooo nooooo nooooo noo noooo no noooo noooo nooooo noooo

off at the bowl, were vigorously puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it
noo no noo nooo, nooo nooooooooo noooooo noooooo-noooo, no nooo no

constantly filled their olfactories.
nooooooooo nooooo noooo noooooooooo.




Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from
Noooo noo nooooo no n nooooo no nooooooo noo noooooooo nooooooooo nooo

the Captain's round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a
noo Noooooo'n noooo-noooo noooo; noo noooooo no nooo noooooooo noo n

fiery face thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar from within.
noooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo, noooo noo nooo nooo nooo nooooo.

This was the tormented surgeon, who, after in vain remonstrating
Nooo noo noo noooooooo noooooo, noo, noooo no nooo noooooooooooo

against the proceedings of the day, had betaken himself to the Captain's
noooooo noo noooooooooo no noo noo, noo noooooo noooooo no noo Noooooo'n

round-house (CABINET he called it) to avoid the pest; but still, could
noooo-noooo (NOOOOOO no nooooo no) no noooo noo nooo; noo noooo, noooo

not help yelling out his entreaties and indignations at times.
noo nooo noooooo noo noo nooooooooo noo nooooooooooo no noooo.




Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the
Noooooo noo nooo, Noooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooooo, noo noooooo no noo

Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate
Nooooooo-noo noo n nooooo nooo nooo noo, nooooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo

expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus,
noooooooo noo noooooooooo no noo Noooooo no n noooooooo noooooooo,

who had brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle.
noo noo noooooo nooo noo nooo no nooooooo noo nooooooooooo n nooooo.

Sounding him carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man
Nooooooo noo noooooooo, Noooo noooooo noooooooo nooo noo Nooooooo-noo

had not the slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris. He therefore
noo noo noo noooooooo noooooooo nooooooooo noo noooooooo. No noooooooo

held his peace on that head, but otherwise was quite frank and
nooo noo noooo no nooo nooo, noo noooooooo noo noooo noooo noo

confidential with him, so that the two quickly concocted a little plan
nooooooooooo nooo noo, no nooo noo noo noooooo noooooooo n nooooo nooo

for both circumventing and satirizing the Captain, without his at all
noo nooo noooooooooooo noo nooooooooo noo Noooooo, noooooo noo no noo

dreaming of distrusting their sincerity. According to this little plan
nooooooo no noooooooooo noooo noooooooo. Noooooooo no nooo nooooo nooo

of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an interpreter's office, was
no nooooo, noo Nooooooo-noo, noooo noooo no no noooooooooo'n nooooo, noo

to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming from Stubb; and as
no nooo noo Noooooo nooo no noooooo, noo no nooooo nooo Noooo; noo no

for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost in
noo Noooo, no noo no noooo noo nooooooo nooo nooooo nooo noooooooo no

him during the interview.
noo nooooo noo noooooooo.




By this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin. He was a
No nooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo. No noo n

small and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with
noooo noo nooo, noo nooooo nooooooo noooooo noo noo n noo-noooooo, nooo

large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore a red cotton velvet vest
noooo nooooooo noo noooooooo, noooooo; noo nooo n noo nooooo nooooo nooo

with watch-seals at his side. To this gentleman, Stubb was now politely
nooo noooo-noooo no noo nooo. No nooo noooooooo, Noooo noo noo nooooooo

introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously put on the
nooooooooo no noo Nooooooo-noo, noo no nooo nooooooooooooo noo no noo

aspect of interpreting between them.
nooooo no nooooooooooo noooooo nooo.




"What shall I say to him first?" said he.
"Nooo noooo N noo no noo noooo?" nooo no.




"Why," said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals, "you
"Noo," nooo Noooo, nooooo noo nooooo nooo noo noo noooo noo noooo, "noo

may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of babyish to me,
noo no nooo noooo no noooooo noo nooo no noooo n nooo no noooooo no no,

though I don't pretend to be a judge."
nooooo N noo'n noooooo no no n noooo."




"He says, Monsieur," said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his
"No nooo, Nooooooo," nooo noo Nooooooo-noo, no Nooooo, noooooo no noo

captain, "that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain
noooooo, "nooo nooo noooooooo noo nooo noooo n nooooo, noooo noooooo

and chief-mate, with six sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a
noo noooo-nooo, nooo noo noooooo, noo noo nooo no n noooo nooooo nooo n

blasted whale they had brought alongside."
noooooo noooo nooo noo noooooo noooooooo."




Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.
Nooo nooo noo noooooo noooooo, noo noooooo noooooo no nooo nooo.




"What now?" said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.
"Nooo noo?" nooo noo Nooooooo-noo no Noooo.




"Why, since he takes it so easy, tell him that now I have eyed him
"Noo, noooo no noooo no no nooo, nooo noo nooo noo N nooo nooo noo

carefully, I'm quite certain that he's no more fit to command a
noooooooo, N'n noooo noooooo nooo no'n no nooo noo no noooooo n

whale-ship than a St. Jago monkey. In fact, tell him from me he's a
noooo-nooo nooo n No. Nooo nooooo. No nooo, nooo noo nooo no no'n n

baboon."
nooooo."




"He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one, is
"No nooo noo nooooooo, Nooooooo, nooo noo noooo noooo, noo noooo noo, no

far more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures us,
noo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo noo; no nooo, Nooooooo, no nooooooo no,

as we value our lives, to cut loose from these fish."
no no noooo noo noooo, no noo noooo nooo noooo nooo."




Instantly the captain ran forward, and in a loud voice commanded his
Noooooooo noo noooooo noo noooooo, noo no n nooo noooo noooooooo noo

crew to desist from hoisting the cutting-tackles, and at once cast loose
nooo no nooooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooo-noooooo, noo no nooo nooo noooo

the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship.
noo nooooo noo nooooo noooooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo.




"What now?" said the Guernsey-man, when the Captain had returned to
"Nooo noo?" nooo noo Nooooooo-noo, nooo noo Noooooo noo nooooooo no

them.
nooo.




"Why, let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that--that--in
"Noo, noo no noo; noo, noo noo no nooo nooo noo noo nooo--nooo--no

fact, tell him I've diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps somebody
nooo, nooo noo N'no noooooo noo, noo (noooo no noooooo) noooooo nooooooo

else."
nooo."




"He says, Monsieur, that he's very happy to have been of any service to
"No nooo, Nooooooo, nooo no'n nooo noooo no nooo nooo no noo noooooo no

us."
no."




Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful parties
Noooooo nooo, noo noooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo noooooo

(meaning himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into his
(noooooo noooooo noo nooo) noo noooooooo no nooooooo Noooo nooo nooo noo

cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux.
noooo no noooo n nooooo no Nooooooo.




"He wants you to take a glass of wine with him," said the interpreter.
"No noooo noo no nooo n noooo no nooo nooo noo," nooo noo noooooooooo.




"Thank him heartily; but tell him it's against my principles to drink
"Noooo noo nooooooo; noo nooo noo no'n noooooo no nooooooooo no noooo

with the man I've diddled. In fact, tell him I must go."
nooo noo noo N'no noooooo. No nooo, nooo noo N nooo no."




"He says, Monsieur, that his principles won't admit of his drinking; but
"No nooo, Nooooooo, nooo noo nooooooooo noo'n noooo no noo nooooooo; noo

that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink, then Monsieur had
nooo no Nooooooo noooo no nooo noooooo noo no noooo, nooo Nooooooo noo

best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these whales, for
nooo nooo noo nooo noooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooo nooo noooo nooooo, noo

it's so calm they won't drift."
no'n no nooo nooo noo'n noooo."




By this time Stubb was over the side, and getting into his boat, hailed
No nooo nooo Noooo noo nooo noo nooo, noo noooooo nooo noo nooo, nooooo

the Guernsey-man to this effect,--that having a long tow-line in his
noo Nooooooo-noo no nooo nooooo,--nooo nooooo n nooo noo-nooo no noo

boat, he would do what he could to help them, by pulling out the lighter
nooo, no noooo no nooo no noooo no nooo nooo, no noooooo noo noo noooooo

whale of the two from the ship's side. While the Frenchman's boats,
noooo no noo noo nooo noo nooo'n nooo. Noooo noo Noooooooo'n noooo,

then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubb benevolently towed
nooo, nooo noooooo no nooooo noo nooo noo noo, Noooo nooooooooooo noooo

away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously slacking out a most
nooo no noo noooo noo noooo noo, nooooooooooooo nooooooo noo n nooo

unusually long tow-line.
noooooooo nooo noo-nooo.




Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb feigned to cast off from the whale;
Noooooooo n nooooo nooooo no; Noooo noooooo no nooo noo nooo noo noooo;

hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon increased his distance, while the
nooooooo noo noooo, noo Noooooooo nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo, noooo noo

Pequod slid in between him and Stubb's whale. Whereupon Stubb quickly
Nooooo nooo no noooooo noo noo Noooo'n noooo. Noooooooo Noooo noooooo

pulled to the floating body, and hailing the Pequod to give notice of
nooooo no noo nooooooo nooo, noo noooooo noo Nooooo no nooo nooooo no

his intentions, at once proceeded to reap the fruit of his unrighteous
noo nooooooooo, no nooo noooooooo no nooo noo noooo no noo noooooooooo

cunning. Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he commenced an excavation in the
noooooo. Noooooo noo noooo nooo-noooo, no noooooooo no nooooooooo no noo

body, a little behind the side fin. You would almost have thought he was
nooo, n nooooo nooooo noo nooo noo. Noo noooo nooooo nooo noooooo no noo

digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at length his spade struck
noooooo n nooooo noooo no noo noo; noo nooo no nooooo noo noooo nooooo

against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old Roman tiles and
noooooo noo noooo nooo, no noo nooo noooooo no noo Noooo noooo noo

pottery buried in fat English loam. His boat's crew were all in high
noooooo nooooo no noo Noooooo nooo. Noo nooo'n nooo nooo noo no nooo

excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking as anxious as
nooooooooo, noooooo noooooo noooo noooo, noo noooooo no noooooo no

gold-hunters.
nooo-noooooo.




And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and
Noo noo noo nooo nooooooooo noooo nooo nooooo, noo noooooo, noo

screaming, and yelling, and fighting around them. Stubb was beginning
noooooooo, noo noooooo, noo nooooooo nooooo nooo. Noooo noo noooooooo

to look disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, when
no nooo nooooooooooo, nooooooooo no noo nooooooo noooooo noooooooo, nooo

suddenly from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a faint
nooooooo nooo noo noo nooo noooo no nooo nooooo, noooo noooo n noooo

stream of perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells without
nooooo no noooooo, noooo nooooo noooooo noo nooo no noo nooooo noooooo

being absorbed by it, as one river will flow into and then along with
noooo nooooooo no no, no noo noooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo noooo nooo

another, without at all blending with it for a time.
noooooo, noooooo no noo nooooooo nooo no noo n nooo.




"I have it, I have it," cried Stubb, with delight, striking something in
"N nooo no, N nooo no," noooo Noooo, nooo noooooo, nooooooo noooooooo no

the subterranean regions, "a purse! a purse!"
noo nooooooooooo noooooo, "n noooo! n noooo!"




Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls
Nooooooo noo noooo, no nooooo nooo noooo no, noo nooo noo nooooooo

of something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old
no noooooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo Noooooo nooo, no nooo noooooo noo

cheese; very unctuous and savory withal. You might easily dent it with
nooooo; nooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooooo. Noo noooo nooooo nooo no nooo

your thumb; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour. And this, good
nooo noooo; no no no n noo noooooo nooooo noo noo nooooo. Noo nooo, nooo

friends, is ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist.
noooooo, no noooooooo, noooo n nooo nooooo no noooo no noo nooooooo.

Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidably lost in the
Nooo noo nooooooo nooo nooooooo; noo nooo noo noooooooooo nooo no noo

sea, and still more, perhaps, might have been secured were it not for
noo, noo noooo nooo, noooooo, noooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo no noo noo

impatient Ahab's loud command to Stubb to desist, and come on board,
noooooooo Nooo'n nooo noooooo no Noooo no nooooo, noo nooo no noooo,

else the ship would bid them good bye.
nooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo nooo noo.










CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooooo.







Now this ambergris is a very curious substance, and so important as
Noo nooo noooooooo no n nooo noooooo noooooooo, noo no noooooooo no

an article of commerce, that in 1791 a certain Nantucket-born Captain
no noooooo no nooooooo, nooo no nooo n noooooo Noooooooo-nooo Noooooo

Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that
Nooooo noo nooooooo no noo noo no noo Noooooo Noooo no Noooooo no nooo

subject. For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day,
noooooo. Noo no nooo nooo, noo nooooo noooo n noooooooooooo nooo noo,

the precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem
noo noooooo nooooo no noooooooo nooooooo, nooo noooo nooooo, n noooooo

to the learned. Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for
no noo noooooo. Nooooo noo nooo noooooooo no noo noo Nooooo nooooooo noo

grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct. For amber, though
nooo noooo, noo noo noo nooooooooo noo noooo nooooooo. Noo noooo, nooooo

at times found on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far inland
no noooo noooo no noo noo-noooo, no nooo noo no no nooo noo nooooo

soils, whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea. Besides,
noooo, noooooo noooooooo no noooo noooo nooooo nooo noo noo. Noooooo,

amber is a hard, transparent, brittle, odorless substance, used for
noooo no n nooo, noooooooooo, noooooo, nooooooo noooooooo, nooo noo

mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and ornaments; but ambergris is soft,
noooo-nooooo no noooo, noo noooo noo noooooooo; noo noooooooo no nooo,

waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy, that it is largely used in
nooo, noo no nooooo nooooooo noo noooo, nooo no no noooooo nooo no

perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles, hair-powders, and pomatum.
noooooooo, no nooooooo, nooooooo noooooo, nooo-noooooo, noo noooooo.

The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to Mecca, for the same
Noo Noooo noo no no noooooo, noo nooo noooo no no Noooo, noo noo nooo

purpose that frankincense is carried to St. Peter's in Rome. Some wine
noooooo nooo nooooooooooo no noooooo no No. Noooo'n no Nooo. Nooo nooo

merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.
noooooooo nooo n noo nooooo nooo nooooo, no nooooo no.




Who would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should regale
Noo noooo noooo, nooo, nooo nooo nooo nooooo noo noooooooo nooooo nooooo

themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick
nooooooooo nooo no noooooo noooo no noo nooooooooo nooooo no n nooo

whale! Yet so it is. By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and
noooo! Noo no no no. No nooo, noooooooo no nooooooo no no noo noooo, noo

by others the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale. How to cure such
no nooooo noo nooooo, no noo noooooooo no noo noooo. Noo no nooo nooo

a dyspepsia it were hard to say, unless by administering three or four
n noooooooo no nooo nooo no noo, nooooo no noooooooooooo noooo no nooo

boat loads of Brandreth's pills, and then running out of harm's way, as
nooo noooo no Noooooooo'n noooo, noo nooo noooooo noo no nooo'n noo, no

laborers do in blasting rocks.
nooooooo no no nooooooo noooo.




I have forgotten to say that there were found in this ambergris, certain
N nooo noooooooo no noo nooo noooo nooo noooo no nooo noooooooo, noooooo

hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought might be sailors'
nooo, noooo, nooo nooooo, noooo no noooo Noooo noooooo noooo no noooooo'

trowsers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that they were nothing
nooooooo noooooo; noo no nooooooooo nooooo noo nooo nooo nooo noooooo

more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.
nooo nooo nooooo no noooo noooo noooo nooooooo no nooo nooooo.




Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be
Noo nooo noo nooooooooooo no nooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo nooooo no

found in the heart of such decay; is this nothing? Bethink thee of that
noooo no noo noooo no nooo noooo; no nooo noooooo? Noooooo nooo no nooo

saying of St. Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption;
nooooo no No. Nooo no Noooooooooo, noooo nooooooooo noo nooooooooooo;

how that we are sown in dishonour, but raised in glory. And likewise
noo nooo no noo nooo no noooooooo, noo nooooo no noooo. Noo nooooooo

call to mind that saying of Paracelsus about what it is that maketh
nooo no nooo nooo nooooo no Nooooooooo noooo nooo no no nooo nooooo

the best musk. Also forget not the strange fact that of all things of
noo nooo nooo. Nooo nooooo noo noo noooooo nooo nooo no noo nooooo no

ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its rudimental manufacturing stages, is the
noo-noooo, Noooooo-noooo, no noo nooooooooo noooooooooooo nooooo, no noo

worst.
noooo.




I should like to conclude the chapter with the above appeal, but cannot,
N nooooo nooo no nooooooo noo noooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo, noo nooooo,

owing to my anxiety to repel a charge often made against whalemen,
noooo no no noooooo no noooo n nooooo noooo nooo noooooo nooooooo,

and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds, might be
noo noooo, no noo nooooooooo no nooo noooooo nooooo noooo, noooo no

considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of
nooooooooo no nooooooooo noooooooooooo no nooo noo nooo nooo no

the Frenchman's two whales. Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous
noo Noooooooo'n noo nooooo. Noooooooo no nooo nooooo noo nooooooooo

aspersion has been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is throughout
noooooooo noo nooo noooooooo, nooo noo nooooooo no noooooo no nooooooooo

a slatternly, untidy business. But there is another thing to rebut. They
n nooooooooo, nooooo nooooooo. Noo noooo no noooooo noooo no noooo. Nooo

hint that all whales always smell bad. Now how did this odious stigma
nooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo noooo noo. Noo noo noo nooo nooooo nooooo

originate?
noooooooo?




I opine, that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the
N noooo, nooo no no noooooo noooooooo no noo noooo noooooo no noo

Greenland whaling ships in London, more than two centuries ago. Because
Noooooooo noooooo noooo no Nooooo, nooo nooo noo noooooooo noo. Noooooo

those whalemen did not then, and do not now, try out their oil at sea as
noooo nooooooo noo noo nooo, noo no noo noo, noo noo noooo noo no noo no

the Southern ships have always done; but cutting up the fresh blubber in
noo Nooooooo noooo nooo nooooo nooo; noo noooooo no noo noooo noooooo no

small bits, thrust it through the bung holes of large casks, and carry
noooo nooo, nooooo no noooooo noo nooo noooo no noooo noooo, noo noooo

it home in that manner; the shortness of the season in those Icy Seas,
no nooo no nooo nooooo; noo noooooooo no noo nooooo no noooo Noo Nooo,

and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed, forbidding
noo noo nooooo noo noooooo nooooo no noooo nooo noo noooooo, nooooooooo

any other course. The consequence is, that upon breaking into the hold,
noo noooo nooooo. Noo noooooooooo no, nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo,

and unloading one of these whale cemeteries, in the Greenland dock, a
noo noooooooo noo no noooo noooo nooooooooo, no noo Noooooooo nooo, n

savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arising from excavating an
noooo no noooo noooo nooooooo noooooo no nooo noooooo nooo nooooooooo no

old city grave-yard, for the foundations of a Lying-in-Hospital.
noo nooo noooo-nooo, noo noo noooooooooo no n Noooo-no-Nooooooo.




I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers may be
N nooooo noooooo nooo, nooo nooo nooooo nooooo noooooo noooooo noo no

likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland, in former
nooooooo noooooo no noo noooooooo no noo noooo no Noooooooo, no nooooo

times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg, which
noooo, no n Noooo noooooo nooooo Noooooooooooo no Noooooooooo, noooo

latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
nooooo nooo no noo noo nooo no noo noooooo Nooo Noo Noooo, no noo noooo

work on Smells, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports (smeer,
nooo no Nooooo, n nooo-nooo no nooo noooooo. No noo nooo noooooo (noooo,

fat; berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to afford a
noo; nooo, no noo no), nooo noooooo noo noooooo no noooo no nooooo n

place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without
noooo noo noo noooooo no noo Noooo noooo noooo no no noooo noo, noooooo

being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was a collection of
noooo noooo nooo no Noooooo noo nooo noooooo. No noo n nooooooooo no

furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full
nooooooo, noo-noooooo, noo noo noooo; noo nooo noo noooo nooo no nooo

operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor. But all this is
noooooooo noooooooo nooo noooo no nooo nooooooo noooo. Noo noo nooo no

quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a voyage of four
noooo noooooooo nooo n Noooo Noo Noooo Nooooo; noooo no n nooooo no nooo

years perhaps, after completely filling her hold with oil, does not,
noooo noooooo, noooo nooooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooo noo, nooo noo,

perhaps, consume fifty days in the business of boiling out; and in the
noooooo, noooooo noooo nooo no noo nooooooo no noooooo noo; noo no noo

state that it is casked, the oil is nearly scentless. The truth is, that
noooo nooo no no nooooo, noo noo no nooooo noooooooo. Noo noooo no, nooo

living or dead, if but decently treated, whales as a species are by
nooooo no nooo, no noo nooooooo noooooo, nooooo no n noooooo noo no

no means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be recognised, as the
no noooo noooooooo no noo nooo; noo noo nooooooo no nooooooooo, no noo

people of the middle ages affected to detect a Jew in the company, by
nooooo no noo nooooo nooo nooooooo no nooooo n Noo no noo noooooo, no

the nose. Nor indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant,
noo nooo. Noo nooooo noo noo noooo nooooooo no noooooooo nooo nooooooo,

when, as a general thing, he enjoys such high health; taking abundance
nooo, no n noooooo noooo, no nooooo nooo nooo nooooo; nooooo noooooooo

of exercise; always out of doors; though, it is true, seldom in the
no nooooooo; nooooo noo no noooo; nooooo, no no nooo, nooooo no noo

open air. I say, that the motion of a Sperm Whale's flukes above water
nooo noo. N noo, nooo noo nooooo no n Noooo Noooo'n nooooo noooo noooo

dispenses a perfume, as when a musk-scented lady rustles her dress in a
noooooooo n noooooo, no nooo n nooo-noooooo nooo noooooo noo noooo no n

warm parlor. What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for fragrance,
nooo nooooo. Nooo nooo noooo N noooo noo Noooo Noooo no noo noooooooo,

considering his magnitude? Must it not be to that famous elephant, with
noooooooooo noo noooooooo? Nooo no noo no no nooo nooooo nooooooo, nooo

jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh, which was led out of an Indian
nooooooo noooo, noo nooooooo nooo noooo, noooo noo noo noo no no Nooooo

town to do honour to Alexander the Great?
nooo no no nooooo no Noooooooo noo Noooo?










CHAPTER 93. The Castaway.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooooo.







It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman, that a most
No noo noo nooo noo nooo noooo nooooooooooo noo Noooooooo, nooo n nooo

significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod's crew; an
noooooooooo noooo nooooo noo nooo noooooooooooo no noo Nooooo'n nooo; no

event most lamentable; and which ended in providing the sometimes
noooo nooo nooooooooo; noo noooo noooo no noooooooo noo noooooooo

madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying
noooo noooo noo noooooooooooo noooo nooo n nooooo noo nooo nooooooooooo

prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own.
nooooooo no nooooooo noooooooo nooooo noooo noooo noo noo.




Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats. Some
Noo, no noo noooo nooo, no no noo noooo noo nooo nooo no noo noooo. Nooo

few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it is to work
noo noooo noo nooooooo nooooo nooo-noooooo, noooo nooooooo no no no nooo

the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale. As a general thing,
noo nooooo noooo noo noooo noo nooooooo noo noooo. No n noooooo noooo,

these ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats'
noooo nooo-noooooo noo no noooo noooooo no noo noo nooooooooo noo noooo'

crews. But if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy, or timorous
noooo. Noo no noooo nooooo no no no nooooo noooooo, nooooo, no nooooooo

wight in the ship, that wight is certain to be made a ship-keeper. It
noooo no noo nooo, nooo noooo no noooooo no no nooo n nooo-nooooo. No

was so in the Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick-name, Pip by
noo no no noo Nooooo nooo noo nooooo noooo Nooooo no nooo-nooo, Noo no

abbreviation. Poor Pip! ye have heard of him before; ye must remember
nooooooooooo. Nooo Noo! no nooo noooo no noo nooooo; no nooo nooooooo

his tambourine on that dramatic midnight, so gloomy-jolly.
noo nooooooooo no nooo nooooooo nooooooo, no nooooo-noooo.




In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony and a
No noooo nooooo, Noo noo Noooo-Noo nooo n noooo, nooo n noooo nooo noo n

white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar colour, driven in
noooo noo, no noooo nooooooooooo, nooooo no nooooooooo nooooo, nooooo no

one eccentric span. But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dull and
noo noooooooo nooo. Noo noooo noooooo Noooo-Noo noo no nooooo nooo noo

torpid in his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at bottom
nooooo no noo nooooooooo, Noo, nooooo nooo nooooo-noooooo, noo no nooooo

very bright, with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness peculiar to
nooo nooooo, nooo nooo nooooooo, nooooo, noooo nooooooooo nooooooo no

his tribe; a tribe, which ever enjoy all holidays and festivities with
noo noooo; n noooo, noooo nooo noooo noo nooooooo noo noooooooooo nooo

finer, freer relish than any other race. For blacks, the year's calendar
noooo, noooo nooooo nooo noo noooo nooo. Noo nooooo, noo nooo'n nooooooo

should show naught but three hundred and sixty-five Fourth of Julys and
nooooo nooo nooooo noo noooo noooooo noo noooo-nooo Nooooo no Noooo noo

New Year's Days. Nor smile so, while I write that this little black was
Noo Nooo'n Nooo. Noo noooo no, noooo N noooo nooo nooo nooooo noooo noo

brilliant, for even blackness has its brilliancy; behold yon lustrous
noooooooo, noo nooo noooooooo noo noo nooooooooo; nooooo noo nooooooo

ebony, panelled in king's cabinets. But Pip loved life, and all life's
noooo, nooooooo no nooo'n nooooooo. Noo Noo noooo nooo, noo noo nooo'n

peaceable securities; so that the panic-striking business in which he
noooooooo nooooooooo; no nooo noo noooo-nooooooo nooooooo no noooo no

had somehow unaccountably become entrapped, had most sadly blurred his
noo noooooo noooooooooooo nooooo noooooooo, noo nooo noooo noooooo noo

brightness; though, as ere long will be seen, what was thus temporarily
nooooooooo; nooooo, no noo nooo nooo no nooo, nooo noo nooo noooooooooo

subdued in him, in the end was destined to be luridly illumined by
noooooo no noo, no noo noo noo nooooooo no no noooooo noooooooo no

strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him off to ten times the
noooooo nooo noooo, nooo nooooooooooo nooooo noo noo no noo noooo noo

natural lustre with which in his native Tolland County in Connecticut,
noooooo nooooo nooo noooo no noo nooooo Noooooo Nooooo no Noooooooooo,

he had once enlivened many a fiddler's frolic on the green; and at
no noo nooo noooooooo nooo n noooooo'n nooooo no noo noooo; noo no

melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha! had turned the round horizon
noooooooo nooo-nooo, nooo noo noo no-no! noo nooooo noo noooo noooooo

into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in the clear air of day,
nooo noo nooo-nooooo nooooooooo. No, nooooo no noo noooo noo no noo,

suspended against a blue-veined neck, the pure-watered diamond drop
noooooooo noooooo n nooo-nooooo nooo, noo nooo-noooooo noooooo nooo

will healthful glow; yet, when the cunning jeweller would show you
nooo noooooooo nooo; noo, nooo noo noooooo nooooooo noooo nooo noo

the diamond in its most impressive lustre, he lays it against a gloomy
noo noooooo no noo nooo nooooooooo nooooo, no nooo no noooooo n nooooo

ground, and then lights it up, not by the sun, but by some unnatural
nooooo, noo nooo nooooo no no, noo no noo noo, noo no nooo noooooooo

gases. Then come out those fiery effulgences, infernally superb; then
noooo. Nooo nooo noo noooo noooo noooooooooo, nooooooooo nooooo; nooo

the evil-blazing diamond, once the divinest symbol of the crystal skies,
noo nooo-noooooo noooooo, nooo noo nooooooo nooooo no noo noooooo noooo,

looks like some crown-jewel stolen from the King of Hell. But let us to
noooo nooo nooo noooo-noooo nooooo nooo noo Nooo no Nooo. Noo noo no no

the story.
noo noooo.




It came to pass, that in the ambergris affair Stubb's after-oarsman
No nooo no nooo, nooo no noo noooooooo nooooo Noooo'n noooo-noooooo

chanced so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed;
noooooo no no nooooo noo nooo, no noo n nooo no nooooo noooo nooooo;

and, temporarily, Pip was put into his place.
noo, noooooooooo, Noo noo noo nooo noo noooo.




The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
Noo noooo nooo Noooo noooooo nooo noo, Noo noooooo nooo noooooooooo;

but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
noo noooooo, noo nooo nooo, noooooo noooo noooooo nooo noo noooo; noo

therefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing
noooooooo nooo noo noo nooooooooo noooooooooooo; nooooo Noooo noooooooo

him, took care, afterwards, to exhort him to cherish his courageousness
noo, nooo nooo, nooooooooo, no nooooo noo no noooooo noo nooooooooooooo

to the utmost, for he might often find it needful.
no noo nooooo, noo no noooo noooo nooo no noooooo.




Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the whale; and as
Noo nooo noo nooooo nooooooo, noo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo; noo no

the fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap, which
noo nooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo, no nooo noo noooooooo noo, noooo

happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip's seat. The
nooooooo, no nooo nooooooo, no no noooo noooo nooo Noo'n nooo. Noo

involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle in
noooooooooo noooooooooooo no noo nooooo nooooo noo no nooo, nooooo no

hand, out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whale
nooo, noo no noo nooo; noo no nooo n noo, nooo nooo no noo noooo noooo

line coming against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as
nooo nooooo noooooo noo noooo, no nooooooo no noooooooo nooo noo, no no

to become entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water. That
no nooooo noooooooo no no, nooo no nooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo. Nooo

instant the stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftly
noooooo noo nooooooo noooo noooooo no n nooooo noo, noo nooo noooooo

straightened; and presto! poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks
nooooooooooo; noo nooooo! nooo Noo nooo noo noooooo no no noo nooooo

of the boat, remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had taken
no noo nooo, noooooooooooo noooooo noooo no noo nooo, noooo noo noooo

several turns around his chest and neck.
noooooo noooo nooooo noo noooo noo nooo.




Tashtego stood in the bows. He was full of the fire of the hunt. He
Nooooooo noooo no noo nooo. No noo nooo no noo nooo no noo nooo. No

hated Pip for a poltroon. Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath,
noooo Noo noo n nooooooo. Noooooooo noo nooo-noooo nooo noo nooooo,

he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb,
no noooooooo noo noooo nooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooooo noooooo Noooo,

exclaimed interrogatively, "Cut?" Meantime Pip's blue, choked face
noooooooo noooooooooooooo, "Noo?" Nooooooo Noo'n nooo, nooooo nooo

plainly looked, Do, for God's sake! All passed in a flash. In less than
noooooo nooooo, No, noo Noo'n nooo! Noo nooooo no n noooo. No nooo nooo

half a minute, this entire thing happened.
nooo n nooooo, nooo nooooo noooo nooooooo.




"Damn him, cut!" roared Stubb; and so the whale was lost and Pip was
"Nooo noo, noo!" nooooo Noooo; noo no noo noooo noo nooo noo Noo noo

saved.
noooo.




So soon as he recovered himself, the poor little negro was assailed
No nooo no no noooooooo noooooo, noo nooo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo

by yells and execrations from the crew. Tranquilly permitting these
no noooo noo noooooooooo nooo noo nooo. Nooooooooo nooooooooo noooo

irregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a plain, business-like,
noooooooo nooooooo no noooooooo, Noooo nooo no n noooo, nooooooo-nooo,

but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially; and that done,
noo noooo nooo nooooooo nooooo, nooooo Noo nooooooooo; noo nooo nooo,

unofficially gave him much wholesome advice. The substance was, Never
nooooooooooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo nooooo. Noo noooooooo noo, Noooo

jump from a boat, Pip, except--but all the rest was indefinite, as the
nooo nooo n nooo, Noo, nooooo--noo noo noo nooo noo nooooooooo, no noo

soundest advice ever is. Now, in general, STICK TO THE BOAT, is your
nooooooo nooooo nooo no. Noo, no noooooo, NOOOO NO NOO NOOO, no nooo

true motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when LEAP FROM
nooo noooo no noooooo; noo noooo nooo noooooooo nooooo nooo NOOO NOOO

THE BOAT, is still better. Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if he
NOO NOOO, no noooo nooooo. Nooooooo, no no nooooooooo no nooo nooo no no

should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be leaving
nooooo nooo noooooooo noooooooooooo nooooo no Noo, no noooo no noooooo

him too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly dropped
noo noo nooo n nooooo no nooo no noo noo nooooo; Noooo nooooooo noooooo

all advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, "Stick to the boat,
noo nooooo, noo noooooooo nooo n nooooooooo noooooo, "Noooo no noo nooo,

Pip, or by the Lord, I won't pick you up if you jump; mind that. We
Noo, no no noo Nooo, N noo'n nooo noo no no noo nooo; nooo nooo. No

can't afford to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for
noo'n nooooo no nooo nooooo no noo noooo no noo; n noooo noooo nooo noo

thirty times what you would, Pip, in Alabama. Bear that in mind, and
nooooo noooo nooo noo noooo, Noo, no Noooooo. Nooo nooo no nooo, noo

don't jump any more." Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted, that
noo'n nooo noo nooo." Nooooo noooooo Noooo nooooooooo nooooo, nooo

though man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal, which
nooooo noo noooo noo nooooo, noo noo no n noooo-nooooo nooooo, noooo

propensity too often interferes with his benevolence.
nooooooooo noo noooo nooooooooo nooo noo noooooooooo.




But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again. It was
Noo no noo noo no noo noooo no noo Nooo; noo Noo nooooo noooo. No noo

under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but this time
noooo nooo noooooo noooooooooooo no noo noooo noooooooooo; noo nooo nooo

he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started to
no noo noo nooooo noo noo nooo; noo noooo, nooo noo noooo noooooo no

run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller's trunk.
noo, Noo noo nooo nooooo no noo noo, nooo n noooooo noooooooo'n noooo.

Alas! Stubb was but too true to his word. It was a beautiful, bounteous,
Nooo! Noooo noo noo noo nooo no noo nooo. No noo n noooooooo, noooooooo,

blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly stretching away,
nooo noo; noo nooooooo noo nooo noo nooo, noo nooooo nooooooooo nooo,

all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater's skin hammered out to the
noo noooo, no noo noooooo, nooo nooo-nooooo'n nooo nooooooo noo no noo

extremest. Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip's ebon head showed
noooooooo. Noooooo no noo nooo no nooo noo, Noo'n nooo nooo nooooo

like a head of cloves. No boat-knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly
nooo n nooo no nooooo. No nooo-noooo noo nooooo nooo no nooo no noooooo

astern. Stubb's inexorable back was turned upon him; and the whale was
nooooo. Noooo'n nooooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo noo; noo noo noooo noo

winged. In three minutes, a whole mile of shoreless ocean was between
nooooo. No noooo noooooo, n noooo nooo no noooooooo noooo noo noooooo

Pip and Stubb. Out from the centre of the sea, poor Pip turned his
Noo noo Noooo. Noo nooo noo nooooo no noo noo, nooo Noo nooooo noo

crisp, curling, black head to the sun, another lonely castaway, though
noooo, noooooo, noooo nooo no noo noo, noooooo nooooo nooooooo, nooooo

the loftiest and the brightest.
noo nooooooo noo noo noooooooo.




Now, in calm weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the
Noo, no nooo noooooo, no nooo no noo nooo noooo no no nooo no noo

practised swimmer as to ride in a spring-carriage ashore. But the awful
noooooooo noooooo no no nooo no n nooooo-nooooooo nooooo. Noo noo noooo

lonesomeness is intolerable. The intense concentration of self in the
nooooooooooo no noooooooooo. Noo noooooo noooooooooooo no nooo no noo

middle of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it? Mark, how
nooooo no nooo n noooooooo noooooooo, no Noo! noo noo nooo no? Nooo, noo

when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea--mark how closely they
nooo noooooo no n nooo nooo noooo no noo nooo noo--nooo noo noooooo nooo

hug their ship and only coast along her sides.
noo noooo nooo noo nooo noooo noooo noo noooo.




But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate? No; he
Noo noo Noooo nooooo noooooooo noo nooo nooooo noooo no noo nooo? No; no

did not mean to, at least. Because there were two boats in his wake,
noo noo nooo no, no noooo. Noooooo noooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooo,

and he supposed, no doubt, that they would of course come up to Pip very
noo no nooooooo, no noooo, nooo nooo noooo no nooooo nooo no no Noo nooo

quickly, and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerations towards
noooooo, noo nooo noo no; nooooo, nooooo, nooo nooooooooooooo noooooo

oarsmen jeopardized through their own timidity, is not always manifested
noooooo noooooooooo noooooo noooo noo nooooooo, no noo nooooo nooooooooo

by the hunters in all similar instances; and such instances not
no noo noooooo no noo noooooo noooooooo; noo nooo noooooooo noo

unfrequently occur; almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, so
nooooooooooo noooo; nooooo nooooooooo no noo noooooo, n nooooo, no

called, is marked with the same ruthless detestation peculiar to
nooooo, no nooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo noooooooooo nooooooo no

military navies and armies.
nooooooo nooooo noo nooooo.




But it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenly
Noo no no nooooooo, nooo noooo noooo, noooooo nooooo Noo, nooooooo

spying whales close to them on one side, turned, and gave chase; and
nooooo nooooo noooo no nooo no noo nooo, nooooo, noo nooo noooo; noo

Stubb's boat was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intent
Noooo'n nooo noo noo no noo nooo, noo no noo noo noo nooo no nooooo

upon his fish, that Pip's ringed horizon began to expand around him
nooo noo nooo, nooo Noo'n nooooo noooooo noooo no nooooo nooooo noo

miserably. By the merest chance the ship itself at last rescued him; but
noooooooo. No noo nooooo nooooo noo nooo nooooo no nooo noooooo noo; noo

from that hour the little negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at
nooo nooo nooo noo nooooo noooo nooo noooo noo nooo no noooo; nooo, no

least, they said he was. The sea had jeeringly kept his finite body
noooo, nooo nooo no noo. Noo noo noo noooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo

up, but drowned the infinite of his soul. Not drowned entirely, though.
no, noo noooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo. Noo noooooo nooooooo, nooooo.

Rather carried down alive to wondrous depths, where strange shapes of
Nooooo noooooo nooo noooo no nooooooo nooooo, noooo noooooo nooooo no

the unwarped primal world glided to and fro before his passive eyes;
noo nooooooo nooooo noooo nooooo no noo noo nooooo noo noooooo nooo;

and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded heaps; and among the
noo noo noooo-nooooo, Nooooo, nooooooo noo noooooo noooo; noo noooo noo

joyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the multitudinous,
nooooo, noooooooo, nooo-nooooooo nooooooooo, Noo noo noo noooooooooooo,

God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of the firmament of waters
Noo-noooooooooo, noooo noooooo, nooo noo no noo noooooooo no nooooo

heaved the colossal orbs. He saw God's foot upon the treadle of the
nooooo noo nooooooo nooo. No noo Noo'n nooo nooo noo noooooo no noo

loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad. So man's
nooo, noo noooo no; noo noooooooo noo noooooooo nooooo noo noo. No noo'n

insanity is heaven's sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, man
nooooooo no nooooo'n noooo; noo noooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo, noo

comes at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, is absurd and
noooo no nooo no nooo noooooooo noooooo, noooo, no nooooo, no nooooo noo

frantic; and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised, indifferent as his
noooooo; noo nooo no noo, noooo nooo noooooooooooo, noooooooooo no noo

God.
Noo.




For the rest, blame not Stubb too hardly. The thing is common in that
Noo noo nooo, noooo noo Noooo noo nooooo. Noo noooo no nooooo no nooo

fishery; and in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen what
noooooo; noo no noo nooooo no noo noooooooo, no nooo nooo no nooo nooo

like abandonment befell myself.
nooo noooooooooo nooooo nooooo.










CHAPTER 94. A Squeeze of the Hand.
NOOOOOO no. N Noooooo no noo Nooo.







That whale of Stubb's, so dearly purchased, was duly brought to
Nooo noooo no Noooo'n, no nooooo noooooooo, noo nooo noooooo no

the Pequod's side, where all those cutting and hoisting operations
noo Nooooo'n nooo, noooo noo noooo noooooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo

previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to the baling of
nooooooooo nooooooo, nooo noooooooo nooo noooooo, nooo no noo nooooo no

the Heidelburgh Tun, or Case.
noo Noooooooooo Noo, no Nooo.




While some were occupied with this latter duty, others were employed
Noooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooo nooo, nooooo nooo nooooooo

in dragging away the larger tubs, so soon as filled with the sperm; and
no nooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo, no nooo no nooooo nooo noo noooo; noo

when the proper time arrived, this same sperm was carefully manipulated
nooo noo nooooo nooo noooooo, nooo nooo noooo noo noooooooo noooooooooo

ere going to the try-works, of which anon.
noo noooo no noo noo-noooo, no noooo nooo.




It had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, with several
No noo nooooo noo nooooooooooo no nooo n nooooo, nooo nooo, nooo noooooo

others, I sat down before a large Constantine's bath of it, I found
nooooo, N noo nooo nooooo n noooo Noooooooooo'n nooo no no, N noooo

it strangely concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about in the
no noooooooo noooooooo nooo noooo, nooo noo noooo noooooo noooo no noo

liquid part. It was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid.
nooooo nooo. No noo noo nooooooo no noooooo noooo noooo nooo nooo noooo.

A sweet and unctuous duty! No wonder that in old times this sperm was
N noooo noo nooooooo nooo! No nooooo nooo no noo noooo nooo noooo noo

such a favourite cosmetic. Such a clearer! such a sweetener! such a
nooo n noooooooo nooooooo. Nooo n noooooo! nooo n noooooooo! nooo n

softener! such a delicious molifier! After having my hands in it for
nooooooo! nooo n noooooooo nooooooo! Noooo nooooo no noooo no no noo

only a few minutes, my fingers felt like eels, and began, as it were, to
nooo n noo noooooo, no noooooo nooo nooo nooo, noo noooo, no no nooo, no

serpentine and spiralise.
nooooooooo noo noooooooo.




As I sat there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter
No N noo noooo no no nooo, noooo-nooooo no noo nooo; noooo noo nooooo

exertion at the windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under
nooooooo no noo nooooooo; noooo n nooo nooooooo noo; noo nooo noooo

indolent sail, and gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands among
nooooooo nooo, noo noooooo no nooooooo noooo; no N nooooo no noooo noooo

those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost within
noooo nooo, nooooo nooooooo no noooooooooo noooooo, noooo nooooo nooooo

the hour; as they richly broke to my fingers, and discharged all their
noo nooo; no nooo nooooo noooo no no noooooo, noo nooooooooo noo noooo

opulence, like fully ripe grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that
nooooooo, nooo noooo nooo nooooo noooo nooo; no N noooooo no nooo

uncontaminated aroma,--literally and truly, like the smell of spring
nooooooooooooo noooo,--noooooooo noo noooo, nooo noo noooo no nooooo

violets; I declare to you, that for the time I lived as in a musky
noooooo; N noooooo no noo, nooo noo noo nooo N noooo no no n noooo

meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in that inexpressible
nooooo; N nooooo noo noooo noo nooooooo nooo; no nooo noooooooooooo

sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost began to credit
noooo, N nooooo no noooo noo no noooo no no; N nooooo noooo no nooooo

the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in allaying
noo noo Nooooooooo nooooooooooo nooo noooo no no nooo nooooo no nooooooo

the heat of anger; while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely free from
noo nooo no noooo; noooo noooooo no nooo nooo, N nooo nooooooo nooo nooo

all ill-will, or petulance, or malice, of any sort whatsoever.
noo noo-nooo, no noooooooo, no nooooo, no noo nooo nooooooooo.




Squeeze! squeeze! squeeze! all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm
Noooooo! noooooo! noooooo! noo noo noooooo nooo; N nooooooo nooo noooo

till I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a
nooo N nooooo nooooo nooooo nooo no; N nooooooo nooo noooo nooo n

strange sort of insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly
noooooo nooo no nooooooo nooo nooo no; noo N noooo nooooo noooooooooo

squeezing my co-laborers' hands in it, mistaking their hands for the
noooooooo no no-nooooooo' noooo no no, noooooooo noooo noooo noo noo

gentle globules. Such an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving
nooooo nooooooo. Nooo no noooooooo, nooooooooooo, nooooooo, nooooo

feeling did this avocation beget; that at last I was continually
noooooo noo nooo noooooooo noooo; nooo no nooo N noo noooooooooo

squeezing their hands, and looking up into their eyes sentimentally; as
noooooooo noooo noooo, noo noooooo no nooo noooo nooo noooooooooooo; no

much as to say,--Oh! my dear fellow beings, why should we longer cherish
nooo no no noo,--No! no nooo nooooo nooooo, noo nooooo no nooooo noooooo

any social acerbities, or know the slightest ill-humor or envy! Come;
noo nooooo nooooooooo, no nooo noo noooooooo noo-noooo no nooo! Nooo;

let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all squeeze ourselves into
noo no noooooo noooo noo noooo; noo, noo no noo noooooo noooooooo nooo

each other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and
nooo noooo; noo no noooooo noooooooo noooooooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noo

sperm of kindness.
noooo no nooooooo.




Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever! For now, since by
Noooo nooo N noooo nooo noooooooo nooo noooo noo nooo! Noo noo, noooo no

many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in all cases
nooo noooooooo, nooooooo noooooooooo, N nooo noooooooo nooo no noo noooo

man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of attainable
noo nooo nooooooooo noooo, no no noooo noooo, noo noooooo no nooooooooo

felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy; but in
nooooooo; noo noooooo no nooooooo no noo noooooooo no noo noooo; noo no

the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the fireside, the
noo nooo, noo noooo, noo noo, noo noooo, noo nooooo, noo nooooooo, noo

country; now that I have perceived all this, I am ready to squeeze case
noooooo; noo nooo N nooo noooooooo noo nooo, N no noooo no noooooo nooo

eternally. In thoughts of the visions of the night, I saw long rows of
noooooooo. No nooooooo no noo noooooo no noo noooo, N noo nooo nooo no

angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar of spermaceti.
nooooo no nooooooo, nooo nooo noo noooo no n noo no nooooooooo.




Now, while discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other things
Noo, noooo noooooooooo no noooo, no nooooooo no noooo no noooo nooooo

akin to it, in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the
nooo no no, no noo nooooooo no noooooooo noo noooo noooo noo noo

try-works.
noo-noooo.




First comes white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering
Noooo noooo noooo-noooo, no nooooo, noooo no nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo

part of the fish, and also from the thicker portions of his flukes. It
nooo no noo nooo, noo nooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooo no noo nooooo. No

is tough with congealed tendons--a wad of muscle--but still contains
no noooo nooo noooooooo noooooo--n noo no nooooo--noo noooo nooooooo

some oil. After being severed from the whale, the white-horse is first
nooo noo. Noooo noooo noooooo nooo noo noooo, noo noooo-noooo no noooo

cut into portable oblongs ere going to the mincer. They look much like
noo nooo nooooooo noooooo noo noooo no noo nooooo. Nooo nooo nooo nooo

blocks of Berkshire marble.
nooooo no Noooooooo nooooo.




Plum-pudding is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the
Nooo-noooooo no noo nooo nooooooo nooo noooooo noooooooooo noooo no noo

whale's flesh, here and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and
noooo'n noooo, nooo noo noooo nooooooo no noo noooooo no noooooo, noo

often participating to a considerable degree in its unctuousness. It is
noooo noooooooooooo no n nooooooooooo nooooo no noo nooooooooooo. No no

a most refreshing, convivial, beautiful object to behold. As its name
n nooo nooooooooo, noooooooo, noooooooo nooooo no nooooo. No noo nooo

imports, it is of an exceedingly rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked
noooooo, no no no no noooooooooo nooo, noooooo nooo, nooo n nooooooooo

snowy and golden ground, dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and
noooo noo nooooo nooooo, nooooo nooo noooo no noo noooooo noooooo noo

purple. It is plums of rubies, in pictures of citron. Spite of reason,
nooooo. No no noooo no nooooo, no nooooooo no nooooo. Noooo no nooooo,

it is hard to keep yourself from eating it. I confess, that once I stole
no no nooo no nooo nooooooo nooo nooooo no. N noooooo, nooo nooo N noooo

behind the foremast to try it. It tasted something as I should conceive
nooooo noo nooooooo no noo no. No nooooo noooooooo no N nooooo nooooooo

a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might have tasted,
n noooo nooooo nooo noo noooo no Noooo no Nooo noooo nooo nooooo,

supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison
noooooooo noo no nooo nooo nooooo noo noooo noo noooo noo noooooo

season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an
nooooo, noo nooo nooooooooo noooooo nooooo nooooooooooo nooo no

unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.
noooooooo nooo noooooo no noo noooooooo no Noooooooo.




There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in
Noooo no noooooo noooooooo, noo n nooo nooooooo noo, noooo noooo no no

the course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling
noo nooooo no nooo nooooooo, noo noooo N nooo no no no nooo nooooooo

adequately to describe. It is called slobgollion; an appellation
nooooooooo no nooooooo. No no nooooo noooooooooo; no noooooooooo

original with the whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.
nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo no no noo nooooo no noo noooooooo.

It is an ineffably oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the
No no no noooooooo nooo, noooooo nooooo, nooo nooooooooo noooo no noo

tubs of sperm, after a prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting.
nooo no noooo, noooo n noooooooo noooooooo, noo nooooooooo noooooooo.

I hold it to be the wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case,
N nooo no no no noo nooooooooo nooo, nooooooo noooooooo no noo nooo,

coalescing.
nooooooooo.




Gurry, so called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but
Noooo, no nooooo, no n nooo nooooooo noooooooo no noooo nooooooo, noo

sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen. It designates the
noooooooo nooooooooooo nooo no noo noooo noooooooo. No nooooooooo noo

dark, glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland
nooo, noooooooo noooooooo noooo no noooooo noo noo nooo no noo Noooooooo

or right whale, and much of which covers the decks of those inferior
no noooo noooo, noo nooo no noooo nooooo noo noooo no noooo nooooooo

souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan.
noooo noo nooo nooo noooooo Noooooooo.




Nippers. Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale's vocabulary.
Noooooo. Nooooooo nooo nooo no noo nooooooooo no noo noooo'n nooooooooo.

But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman's nipper is
Noo no noooooo no nooooooo, no noooooo no. N nooooooo'n nooooo no

a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of
n noooo nooo noooo no noooooooo noooo noo nooo noo nooooooo nooo no

Leviathan's tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is
Noooooooo'n nooo: no nooooooo no nooo no noooooooo, noo noo noo nooo, no

about the size of the iron part of a hoe. Edgewise moved along the
noooo noo nooo no noo nooo nooo no n noo. Nooooooo noooo noooo noo

oily deck, it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless
nooo nooo, no nooooooo nooo n nooooooo nooooooo; noo no nooooooo

blandishments, as of magic, allures along with it all impurities.
noooooooooooo, no no noooo, noooooo noooo nooo no noo nooooooooo.




But to learn all about these recondite matters, your best way is at once
Noo no noooo noo noooo noooo noooooooo noooooo, nooo nooo noo no no nooo

to descend into the blubber-room, and have a long talk with its inmates.
no noooooo nooo noo noooooo-nooo, noo nooo n nooo nooo nooo noo noooooo.

This place has previously been mentioned as the receptacle for the
Nooo noooo noo nooooooooo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooooooo noo noo

blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted from the whale. When the proper
noooooo-nooooo, nooo nooooo noo noooooo nooo noo noooo. Nooo noo nooooo

time arrives for cutting up its contents, this apartment is a scene of
nooo noooooo noo noooooo no noo nooooooo, nooo noooooooo no n noooo no

terror to all tyros, especially by night. On one side, lit by a dull
nooooo no noo noooo, nooooooooo no noooo. No noo nooo, noo no n nooo

lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen. They generally
noooooo, n noooo noo nooo nooo noooo noo noo noooooo. Nooo noooooooo

go in pairs,--a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man. The whaling-pike is
no no noooo,--n nooo-noo-noooooo noo n noooo-noo. Noo noooooo-nooo no

similar to a frigate's boarding-weapon of the same name. The gaff is
noooooo no n noooooo'n nooooooo-nooooo no noo nooo nooo. Noo nooo no

something like a boat-hook. With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a
noooooooo nooo n nooo-nooo. Nooo noo nooo, noo noooooo noooo no no n

sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping, as the ship
noooo no noooooo, noo noooooo no nooo no nooo nooooooo, no noo nooo

pitches and lurches about. Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet
noooooo noo noooooo noooo. Noooooooo, noo noooo-noo nooooo no noo noooo

itself, perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse-pieces. This
nooooo, noooooooooooooo nooooooo no nooo noo nooooooo noooo-nooooo. Nooo

spade is sharp as hone can make it; the spademan's feet are shoeless;
noooo no noooo no nooo noo nooo no; noo nooooooo'n nooo noo nooooooo;

the thing he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from
noo noooo no nooooo no nooo noooooooo nooooooooooo noooo nooo nooo

him, like a sledge. If he cuts off one of his own toes, or one of his
noo, nooo n nooooo. No no nooo noo noo no noo noo nooo, no noo no noo

assistants', would you be very much astonished? Toes are scarce among
nooooooooo', noooo noo no nooo nooo nooooooooo? Nooo noo nooooo noooo

veteran blubber-room men.
noooooo noooooo-nooo noo.










CHAPTER 95. The Cassock.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noooooo.







Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a certain juncture of this
Noo noo noooooo no noooo noo Nooooo no n noooooo nooooooo no nooo

post-mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled forward nigh the
nooo-noooooooooo no noo noooo; noo noo noo nooooooo noooooo nooo noo

windlass, pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with no small
nooooooo, nooooo nooo no N nooo noo noooo nooo noooooo nooo no noooo

curiosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have seen
noooooooo n nooo noooooo, noooooooooo nooooo, noooo noo noooo nooo nooo

there, lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers. Not the wondrous
noooo, noooo noooo nooooooooo no noo noo nooooooo. Noo noo nooooooo

cistern in the whale's huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower
noooooo no noo noooo'n nooo nooo; noo noo noooooo no noo nooooooo noooo

jaw; not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would so
noo; noo noo noooooo no noo noooooooooo nooo; nooo no noooo noooo no

surprise you, as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone,--longer than
nooooooo noo, no nooo n noooooo no nooo noooooooooooo nooo,--nooooo nooo

a Kentuckian is tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and jet-black
n Nooooooooo no nooo, nooo n nooo no nooooooo no noo nooo, noo noo-noooo

as Yojo, the ebony idol of Queequeg. And an idol, indeed, it is; or,
no Nooo, noo noooo nooo no Nooooooo. Noo no nooo, nooooo, no no; no,

rather, in old times, its likeness was. Such an idol as that found in
nooooo, no noo noooo, noo nooooooo noo. Nooo no nooo no nooo noooo no

the secret groves of Queen Maachah in Judea; and for worshipping which,
noo nooooo nooooo no Noooo Noooooo no Noooo; noo noo noooooooooo noooo,

King Asa, her son, did depose her, and destroyed the idol, and burnt it
Nooo Noo, noo noo, noo nooooo noo, noo noooooooo noo nooo, noo noooo no

for an abomination at the brook Kedron, as darkly set forth in the 15th
noo no noooooooooo no noo noooo Nooooo, no nooooo noo noooo no noo nooo

chapter of the First Book of Kings.
noooooo no noo Noooo Nooo no Noooo.




Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and assisted
Nooo no noo nooooo, nooooo noo nooooo, noo noo noooo noooo, noo nooooooo

by two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners call it,
no noo nooooo, noooooo noooo noo nooooooooooo, no noo nooooooo nooo no,

and with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a grenadier
noo nooo noooo noooooooo, nooooooo noo nooo no no no no nooo n noooooooo

carrying a dead comrade from the field. Extending it upon the forecastle
nooooooo n nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo. Noooooooo no nooo noo nooooooooo

deck, he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, as an
nooo, no noo nooooooo noooooooooooo no nooooo noo nooo nooo, no no

African hunter the pelt of a boa. This done he turns the pelt inside
Noooooo nooooo noo nooo no n noo. Nooo nooo no noooo noo nooo nooooo

out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so as almost to
noo, nooo n noooooooo noo; noooo no n nooo nooooooooo, no no nooooo no

double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in the rigging,
nooooo noo nooooooo; noo no nooo noooo no, nooo nooooo, no noo noooooo,

to dry. Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some three feet of it,
no noo. Noo nooo, no no noooo nooo; nooo nooooooo nooo noooo nooo no no,

towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for arm-holes
noooooo noo noooooo noooooooo, noo nooo noooooo noo noooo noo noo-noooo

at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it. The mincer
no noo noooo noo, no nooooooooo noooo noooooo nooooo nooo no. Noo nooooo

now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling.
noo nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo nooooooooo no noo noooooo.

Immemorial to all his order, this investiture alone will adequately
Nooooooooo no noo noo noooo, nooo noooooooooo noooo nooo nooooooooo

protect him, while employed in the peculiar functions of his office.
noooooo noo, noooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo.




That office consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the
Nooo nooooo nooooooo no noooooo noo noooo-nooooo no noooooo noo noo

pots; an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse, planted
nooo; no noooooooo noooo no noooooooo no n noooooo nooooo noooo, noooooo

endwise against the bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath it, into
noooooo noooooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo n noooooooo noo noooooo no, nooo

which the minced pieces drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt orator's
noooo noo nooooo nooooo nooo, nooo no noo nooooo nooo n nooo nooooo'n

desk. Arrayed in decent black; occupying a conspicuous pulpit; intent
nooo. Noooooo no nooooo noooo; noooooooo n noooooooooo nooooo; nooooo

on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishopric, what a lad for a
no noooo nooooo; nooo n noooooooo noo no noooooooooooo, nooo n noo noo n

Pope were this mincer!*
Nooo nooo nooo nooooo!*







*Bible leaves! Bible leaves! This is the invariable cry from the mates
*Noooo nooooo! Noooo nooooo! Nooo no noo nooooooooo noo nooo noo noooo

to the mincer. It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as
no noo nooooo. No noooooo noo no no noooooo, noo noo noo nooo nooo no

thin slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of
nooo nooooo no nooooooo, nooooooo no no no noooo noo nooooooo no

boiling out the oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably
noooooo noo noo noo no nooo noooooooooo, noo noo nooooooo nooooooooooo

increased, besides perhaps improving it in quality.
noooooooo, noooooo noooooo noooooooo no no noooooo.










CHAPTER 96. The Try-Works.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Noo-Noooo.







Besides her hoisted boats, an American whaler is outwardly distinguished
Noooooo noo noooooo noooo, no Nooooooo nooooo no noooooooo noooooooooooo

by her try-works. She presents the curious anomaly of the most solid
no noo noo-noooo. Noo nooooooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo nooo noooo

masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting the completed ship.
noooooo noooooo nooo noo noo nooo no nooooooooooo noo noooooooo nooo.

It is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were transported to her
No no no no nooo noo nooo noooo n noooo-nooo nooo noooooooooo no noo

planks.
nooooo.




The try-works are planted between the foremast and mainmast, the most
Noo noo-noooo noo noooooo noooooo noo nooooooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo

roomy part of the deck. The timbers beneath are of a peculiar strength,
noooo nooo no noo nooo. Noo noooooo noooooo noo no n nooooooo nooooooo,

fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and
nooooo no noooooo noo nooooo no no nooooo noooo nooo no noooo noo

mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height. The
nooooo, nooo noo nooo no noooo nooooo, noo nooo no nooooo. Noo

foundation does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmly
nooooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noo nooo, noo noo noooooo no nooooo

secured to the surface by ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all
noooooo no noo noooooo no noooooooo noooo no nooo noooooo no no noo

sides, and screwing it down to the timbers. On the flanks it is cased
noooo, noo nooooooo no nooo no noo noooooo. No noo nooooo no no noooo

with wood, and at top completely covered by a large, sloping, battened
nooo nooo, noo no noo nooooooooo noooooo no n noooo, noooooo, nooooooo

hatchway. Removing this hatch we expose the great try-pots, two in
nooooooo. Nooooooo nooo noooo no nooooo noo noooo noo-nooo, noo no

number, and each of several barrels' capacity. When not in use, they are
nooooo, noo nooo no noooooo noooooo' nooooooo. Nooo noo no noo, nooo noo

kept remarkably clean. Sometimes they are polished with soapstone
nooo nooooooooo noooo. Noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo noooooooo

and sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls. During the
noo nooo, nooo nooo noooo nooooo nooo nooooo noooo-noooo. Nooooo noo

night-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and coil
noooo-noooooo nooo noooooo noo noooooo nooo noooo nooo nooo noo nooo

themselves away there for a nap. While employed in polishing them--one
nooooooooo nooo noooo noo n noo. Noooo nooooooo no noooooooo nooo--noo

man in each pot, side by side--many confidential communications
noo no nooo noo, nooo no nooo--nooo nooooooooooo nooooooooooooo

are carried on, over the iron lips. It is a place also for profound
noo noooooo no, nooo noo nooo nooo. No no n noooo nooo noo nooooooo

mathematical meditation. It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod,
nooooooooooo nooooooooo. No noo no noo nooo nooo noo-noo no noo Nooooo,

with the soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first
nooo noo noooooooo nooooooooo nooooooo noooo no, nooo N noo noooo

indirectly struck by the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies
nooooooooo nooooo no noo nooooooooo nooo, nooo no nooooooo noo nooooo

gliding along the cycloid, my soapstone for example, will descend from
noooooo noooo noo noooooo, no noooooooo noo noooooo, nooo noooooo nooo

any point in precisely the same time.
noo noooo no noooooooo noo nooo nooo.




Removing the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the bare
Nooooooo noo nooo-noooo nooo noo noooo no noo noo-noooo, noo nooo

masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths of
noooooo no nooo nooo no noooooo, nooooooooo no noo noo nooo nooooo no

the furnaces, directly underneath the pots. These mouths are fitted
noo nooooooo, nooooooo nooooooooo noo nooo. Noooo nooooo noo nooooo

with heavy doors of iron. The intense heat of the fire is prevented
nooo noooo noooo no nooo. Noo noooooo nooo no noo nooo no noooooooo

from communicating itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir
nooo noooooooooooo nooooo no noo nooo, no noooo no n noooooo noooooooo

extending under the entire inclosed surface of the works. By a tunnel
noooooooo noooo noo nooooo nooooooo noooooo no noo noooo. No n nooooo

inserted at the rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water as
nooooooo no noo nooo, nooo noooooooo no nooo noooooooooo nooo noooo no

fast as it evaporates. There are no external chimneys; they open direct
nooo no no nooooooooo. Noooo noo no nooooooo nooooooo; nooo nooo nooooo

from the rear wall. And here let us go back for a moment.
nooo noo nooo nooo. Noo nooo noo no no nooo noo n nooooo.




It was about nine o'clock at night that the Pequod's try-works were
No noo noooo nooo n'noooo no noooo nooo noo Nooooo'n noo-noooo nooo

first started on this present voyage. It belonged to Stubb to oversee
noooo noooooo no nooo noooooo nooooo. No nooooooo no Noooo no noooooo

the business.
noo nooooooo.




"All ready there? Off hatch, then, and start her. You cook, fire the
"Noo noooo noooo? Noo noooo, nooo, noo noooo noo. Noo nooo, nooo noo

works." This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been thrusting his
noooo." Nooo noo no nooo noooo, noo noo noooooooo noo nooo noooooooo noo

shavings into the furnace throughout the passage. Here be it said that
nooooooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooooo noo noooooo. Nooo no no nooo nooo

in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed for a
no n noooooo nooooo noo noooo nooo no noo noo-noooo noo no no noo noo n

time with wood. After that no wood is used, except as a means of quick
nooo nooo nooo. Noooo nooo no nooo no nooo, nooooo no n noooo no noooo

ignition to the staple fuel. In a word, after being tried out, the
nooooooo no noo nooooo nooo. No n nooo, noooo noooo noooo noo, noo

crisp, shrivelled blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still contains
noooo, nooooooooo noooooo, noo nooooo nooooo no nooooooo, noooo nooooooo

considerable of its unctuous properties. These fritters feed the flames.
nooooooooooo no noo nooooooo nooooooooo. Noooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo.

Like a plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consuming misanthrope, once
Nooo n noooooooo noooooo nooooo, no n nooo-noooooooo noooooooooo, nooo

ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body.
noooooo, noo noooo nooooooo noo noo nooo noo noooo no noo noo nooo.

Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is horrible to
Noooo nooo no nooooooo noo noo noooo! noo noo noooo no nooooooo no

inhale, and inhale it you must, and not only that, but you must live in
nooooo, noo nooooo no noo nooo, noo noo nooo nooo, noo noo nooo nooo no

it for the time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor about it, such
no noo noo nooo. No noo no noooooooooo, nooo, Nooooo nooo noooo no, nooo

as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres. It smells like the left
no noo nooo no noo nooooooo no nooooooo noooo. No nooooo nooo noo nooo

wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for the pit.
nooo no noo noo no nooooooo; no no no nooooooo noo noo noo.




By midnight the works were in full operation. We were clear from the
No nooooooo noo noooo nooo no nooo noooooooo. No nooo noooo nooo noo

carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild ocean
noooooo; nooo noo nooo nooo; noo nooo noo nooooooooo; noo nooo noooo

darkness was intense. But that darkness was licked up by the fierce
nooooooo noo noooooo. Noo nooo nooooooo noo nooooo no no noo nooooo

flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
nooooo, noooo no noooooooo nooooo noooo nooo noo noooo noooo, noo

illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek
noooooooooo noooo noooo nooo no noo noooooo, no nooo noo noooo Noooo

fire. The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to
nooo. Noo noooooo nooo noooo no, no no noooooooooooo nooooooooooo no

some vengeful deed. So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the
nooo nooooooo nooo. No noo noooo noo noooooo-noooooooo noooo no noo

bold Hydriote, Canaris, issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad
nooo Nooooooo, Noooooo, noooooo nooo noooo nooooooo noooooo, nooo noooo

sheets of flame for sails, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, and
nooooo no noooo noo noooo, nooo nooo nooo noo Noooooo nooooooo, noo

folded them in conflagrations.
nooooo nooo no nooooooooooooo.




The hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide hearth
Noo noooo, noooooo nooo noo noo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo n nooo nooooo

in front of them. Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the
no noooo no nooo. Nooooooo no nooo nooo noo Noooooooo nooooo no noo

pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship's stokers. With huge pronged
noooo noooooooooo, nooooo noo noooo-nooo'n noooooo. Nooo nooo noooooo

poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots, or
noooo nooo noooooo noooooo nooooo no noooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo, no

stirred up the fires beneath, till the snaky flames darted, curling, out
noooooo no noo noooo noooooo, nooo noo noooo nooooo nooooo, noooooo, noo

of the doors to catch them by the feet. The smoke rolled away in sullen
no noo noooo no noooo nooo no noo nooo. Noo noooo nooooo nooo no nooooo

heaps. To every pitch of the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil,
noooo. No noooo noooo no noo nooo noooo noo n noooo no noo noooooo noo,

which seemed all eagerness to leap into their faces. Opposite the mouth
noooo nooooo noo noooooooo no nooo nooo noooo noooo. Nooooooo noo noooo

of the works, on the further side of the wide wooden hearth, was the
no noo noooo, no noo noooooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo nooooo, noo noo

windlass. This served for a sea-sofa. Here lounged the watch, when not
nooooooo. Nooo nooooo noo n noo-nooo. Nooo noooooo noo noooo, nooo noo

otherwise employed, looking into the red heat of the fire, till their
noooooooo nooooooo, noooooo nooo noo noo nooo no noo nooo, nooo noooo

eyes felt scorched in their heads. Their tawny features, now all
nooo nooo nooooooo no noooo noooo. Noooo noooo nooooooo, noo noo

begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, and the contrasting
nooooooo nooo noooo noo noooo, noooo nooooo nooooo, noo noo noooooooooo

barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these were strangely revealed in
nooooooo nooooooooo no noooo noooo, noo noooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo no

the capricious emblazonings of the works. As they narrated to each other
noo nooooooooo nooooooooooo no noo noooo. No nooo nooooooo no nooo noooo

their unholy adventures, their tales of terror told in words of mirth;
noooo nooooo nooooooooo, noooo noooo no nooooo nooo no noooo no noooo;

as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them, like the
no noooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooooo noooooo noo no nooo, nooo noo

flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their front, the harpooneers
nooooo nooo noo noooooo; no no noo noo, no noooo noooo, noo noooooooooo

wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers; as the
nooooo nooooooooooo nooo noooo nooo noooooo noooo noo noooooo; no noo

wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the ship groaned and dived, and
nooo nooooo no, noo noo noo nooooo, noo noo nooo noooooo noo noooo, noo

yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness
noo noooooooooo nooo noo noo nooo noooooo noo noooooo nooo noo noooooooo

of the sea and the night, and scornfully champed the white bone in
no noo noo noo noo noooo, noo nooooooooo noooooo noo noooo nooo no

her mouth, and viciously spat round her on all sides; then the rushing
noo noooo, noo noooooooo nooo noooo noo no noo noooo; nooo noo noooooo

Pequod, freighted with savages, and laden with fire, and burning
Nooooo, noooooooo nooo noooooo, noo noooo nooo nooo, noo noooooo

a corpse, and plunging into that blackness of darkness, seemed the
n nooooo, noo nooooooo nooo nooo noooooooo no nooooooo, nooooo noo

material counterpart of her monomaniac commander's soul.
nooooooo noooooooooo no noo nooooooooo noooooooo'n nooo.




So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm, and for long hours silently
No nooooo no no no, no N noooo no noo nooo, noo noo nooo noooo nooooooo

guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea. Wrapped, for that interval,
nooooo noo noo no nooo nooo-nooo no noo noo. Noooooo, noo nooo nooooooo,

in darkness myself, I but the better saw the redness, the madness, the
no nooooooo nooooo, N noo noo nooooo noo noo noooooo, noo noooooo, noo

ghastliness of others. The continual sight of the fiend shapes before
noooooooooo no nooooo. Noo noooooooo noooo no noo noooo nooooo nooooo

me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, these at last begat kindred
no, nooooooo nooo no noooo noo nooo no nooo, noooo no nooo noooo noooooo

visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield to that unaccountable
noooooo no no nooo, no nooo no N noooo no noooo no nooo noooooooooooo

drowsiness which ever would come over me at a midnight helm.
nooooooooo noooo nooo noooo nooo nooo no no n nooooooo nooo.




But that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable)
Noo nooo noooo, no nooooooooo, n noooooo (noo nooo noooo nooooooooooo)

thing occurred to me. Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was
noooo nooooooo no no. Nooooooo nooo n noooo nooooooo noooo, N noo

horribly conscious of something fatally wrong. The jaw-bone tiller smote
nooooooo noooooooo no noooooooo noooooo noooo. Noo noo-nooo nooooo noooo

my side, which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum of sails,
no nooo, noooo nooooo noooooo no; no no nooo noo noo noo noo no noooo,

just beginning to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were open; I
nooo noooooooo no noooo no noo nooo; N noooooo no nooo nooo nooo; N

was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically
noo nooo noooooooo no noooooo no noooooo no noo nooo noo nooooooooooo

stretching them still further apart. But, spite of all this, I could see
nooooooooo nooo noooo noooooo noooo. Noo, noooo no noo nooo, N noooo noo

no compass before me to steer by; though it seemed but a minute since I
no noooooo nooooo no no noooo no; nooooo no nooooo noo n nooooo noooo N

had been watching the card, by the steady binnacle lamp illuminating it.
noo nooo nooooooo noo nooo, no noo nooooo nooooooo nooo nooooooooooo no.

Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom, now and then made ghastly by
Noooooo nooooo nooooo no noo n noo noooo, noo noo nooo nooo noooooo no

flashes of redness. Uppermost was the impression, that whatever swift,
noooooo no noooooo. Noooooooo noo noo nooooooooo, nooo nooooooo noooo,

rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound to any haven ahead as
noooooo noooo N noooo no noo noo no nooo noooo no noo noooo noooo no

rushing from all havens astern. A stark, bewildered feeling, as of
noooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo. N noooo, nooooooooo noooooo, no no

death, came over me. Convulsively my hands grasped the tiller, but with
noooo, nooo nooo no. Nooooooooooo no noooo noooooo noo nooooo, noo nooo

the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow, in some enchanted way,
noo noooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo noo, noooooo, no nooo noooooooo noo,

inverted. My God! what is the matter with me? thought I. Lo! in my brief
nooooooo. No Noo! nooo no noo nooooo nooo no? noooooo N. No! no no noooo

sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the ship's stern, with
noooo N noo nooooo nooooo noooo, noo noo nooooooo noo nooo'n noooo, nooo

my back to her prow and the compass. In an instant I faced back, just
no nooo no noo nooo noo noo noooooo. No no noooooo N noooo nooo, nooo

in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind, and very
no nooo no noooooo noo nooooo nooo nooooo no nooo noo nooo, noo nooo

probably capsizing her. How glad and how grateful the relief from this
nooooooo noooooooo noo. Noo nooo noo noo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo

unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being
noooooooo noooooooooooo no noo noooo, noo noo noooo noooooooooo no noooo

brought by the lee!
noooooo no noo noo!




Look not too long in the face of the fire, O man! Never dream with thy
Nooo noo noo nooo no noo nooo no noo nooo, N noo! Noooo noooo nooo noo

hand on the helm! Turn not thy back to the compass; accept the first
nooo no noo nooo! Nooo noo noo nooo no noo noooooo; nooooo noo noooo

hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when its
nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo; noooooo noo noo nooooooooo nooo, nooo noo

redness makes all things look ghastly. To-morrow, in the natural sun,
noooooo noooo noo nooooo nooo noooooo. No-nooooo, no noo noooooo noo,

the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking
noo noooo nooo no nooooo; noooo noo nooooo nooo nooooo no noo noooooo

flames, the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; the
nooooo, noo nooo nooo nooo no noo noooo, no noooo noooooo, nooooo; noo

glorious, golden, glad sun, the only true lamp--all others but liars!
nooooooo, nooooo, nooo noo, noo nooo nooo nooo--noo nooooo noo noooo!




Nevertheless the sun hides not Virginia's Dismal Swamp, nor Rome's
Nooooooooooo noo noo noooo noo Nooooooo'n Nooooo Noooo, noo Nooo'n

accursed Campagna, nor wide Sahara, nor all the millions of miles of
nooooooo Nooooooo, noo nooo Nooooo, noo noo noo nooooooo no noooo no

deserts and of griefs beneath the moon. The sun hides not the ocean,
noooooo noo no nooooo noooooo noo nooo. Noo noo noooo noo noo noooo,

which is the dark side of this earth, and which is two thirds of this
noooo no noo nooo nooo no nooo noooo, noo noooo no noo nooooo no nooo

earth. So, therefore, that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow
noooo. No, noooooooo, nooo nooooo noo noo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo

in him, that mortal man cannot be true--not true, or undeveloped. With
no noo, nooo nooooo noo nooooo no nooo--noo nooo, no noooooooooo. Nooo

books the same. The truest of all men was the Man of Sorrows, and the
noooo noo nooo. Noo nooooo no noo noo noo noo Noo no Noooooo, noo noo

truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the fine hammered
nooooo no noo noooo no Noooooo'n, noo Nooooooooooo no noo nooo nooooooo

steel of woe. "All is vanity." ALL. This wilful world hath not got hold
noooo no noo. "Noo no nooooo." NOO. Nooo nooooo noooo nooo noo noo nooo

of unchristian Solomon's wisdom yet. But he who dodges hospitals and
no noooooooooo Noooooo'n nooooo noo. Noo no noo nooooo noooooooo noo

jails, and walks fast crossing graveyards, and would rather talk of
noooo, noo noooo nooo nooooooo nooooooooo, noo noooo nooooo nooo no

operas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils all
nooooo nooo nooo; noooo Nooooo, Noooo, Nooooo, Nooooooo, nooo nooooo noo

of sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelais as
no nooo noo; noo nooooooooo n nooo-nooo nooooooo nooooo no Nooooooo no

passing wise, and therefore jolly;--not that man is fitted to sit
noooooo nooo, noo noooooooo noooo;--noo nooo noo no nooooo no noo

down on tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomably
nooo no nooo-nooooo, noo noooo noo noooo nooo noooo nooo nooooooooooo

wondrous Solomon.
nooooooo Noooooo.




But even Solomon, he says, "the man that wandereth out of the way
Noo nooo Noooooo, no nooo, "noo noo nooo noooooooo noo no noo noo

of understanding shall remain" (I.E., even while living) "in the
no noooooooooooo noooo nooooo" (N.N., nooo noooo nooooo) "no noo

congregation of the dead." Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it
nooooooooooo no noo nooo." Nooo noo noooooo no, nooo, no nooo, nooo no

invert thee, deaden thee; as for the time it did me. There is a wisdom
nooooo nooo, nooooo nooo; no noo noo nooo no noo no. Noooo no n nooooo

that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness. And there is a Catskill
nooo no noo; noo noooo no n noo nooo no noooooo. Noo noooo no n Nooooooo

eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges,
noooo no nooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooo,

and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces.
noo nooo noo no nooo noooo noo nooooo noooooooo no noo noooo nooooo.

And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the
Noo nooo no no noo nooo noooo nooooo noo noooo, nooo noooo no no noo

mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still
noooooooo; no nooo nooo no noo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo noooo no noooo

higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar.
nooooo nooo noooo noooo nooo noo noooo, nooo nooooo nooo nooo.










CHAPTER 97. The Lamp.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooo.







Had you descended from the Pequod's try-works to the Pequod's
Noo noo noooooooo nooo noo Nooooo'n noo-noooo no noo Nooooo'n

forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping, for one single
nooooooooo, noooo noo noo nooo noooo nooo nooooooo, noo noo nooooo

moment you would have almost thought you were standing in some
nooooo noo noooo nooo nooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooo no nooo

illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors. There they lay
noooooooooo nooooo no noooooooo noooo noo noooooooooo. Noooo nooo noo

in their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a
no noooo nooooooooo noooo nooooo, nooo noooooo n noooooooo nooooooo; n

score of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.
noooo no noooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo.




In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of
No noooooooooo, noo noo noo nooooo no nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo no

queens. To dress in the dark, and eat in the dark, and stumble in
nooooo. No noooo no noo nooo, noo noo no noo nooo, noo noooooo no

darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot. But the whaleman, as he
nooooooo no noo nooooo, nooo no noo noooo noo. Noo noo nooooooo, no no

seeks the food of light, so he lives in light. He makes his berth an
noooo noo nooo no noooo, no no noooo no noooo. No noooo noo noooo no

Aladdin's lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest night
Noooooo'n nooo, noo nooo noo nooo no no; no nooo no noo noooooooo noooo

the ship's black hull still houses an illumination.
noo nooo'n noooo nooo noooo nooooo no nooooooooooo.




See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of
Noo nooo nooo nooooo noooooo noo nooooooo noooo noo noooooo no

lamps--often but old bottles and vials, though--to the copper cooler at
noooo--noooo noo noo noooooo noo noooo, nooooo--no noo nooooo nooooo no

the try-works, and replenishes them there, as mugs of ale at a vat. He
noo noo-noooo, noo noooooooooo nooo noooo, no nooo no noo no n noo. No

burns, too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore,
noooo, noo, noo nooooo no noo, no noo nooooooooooooo, noo, noooooooo,

unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to solar, lunar, or astral
nooooooooo noooo; n noooo noooooo no noooo, noooo, no nooooo

contrivances ashore. It is sweet as early grass butter in April. He
nooooooooooo nooooo. No no noooo no noooo noooo nooooo no Noooo. No

goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and
nooo noo noooo noo noo noo, no no no no nooo no noo noooooooo noo

genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own
noooooooooo, nooo no noo noooooooo no noo noooooo noooo no noo noo

supper of game.
nooooo no nooo.










CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.
NOOOOOO no. Noooooo Nooo noo Nooooooo No.







Already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off
Noooooo noo no nooo noooooo noo noo noooo noooooooo no nooo noo

descried from the mast-head; how he is chased over the watery moors, and
nooooooo nooo noo nooo-nooo; noo no no nooooo nooo noo nooooo noooo, noo

slaughtered in the valleys of the deep; how he is then towed alongside
noooooooooo no noo noooooo no noo nooo; noo no no nooo noooo noooooooo

and beheaded; and how (on the principle which entitled the headsman of
noo nooooooo; noo noo (no noo noooooooo noooo nooooooo noo nooooooo no

old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed) his great padded
noo no noo nooooooo no noooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo) noo noooo nooooo

surtout becomes the property of his executioner; how, in due time, he
noooooo noooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooooooooo; noo, no noo nooo, no

is condemned to the pots, and, like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his
no noooooooo no noo nooo, noo, nooo Nooooooo, Noooooo, noo Nooooooo, noo

spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed through the fire;--but now it
nooooooooo, noo, noo nooo nooo noooooooo noooooo noo nooo;--noo noo no

remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of the description by
noooooo no nooooooo noo nooo noooooo no nooo nooo no noo noooooooooo no

rehearsing--singing, if I may--the romantic proceeding of decanting off
nooooooooo--noooooo, no N noo--noo nooooooo nooooooooo no noooooooo noo

his oil into the casks and striking them down into the hold, where
noo noo nooo noo noooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo, noooo

once again leviathan returns to his native profundities, sliding along
nooo noooo noooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo nooooooooooo, noooooo noooo

beneath the surface as before; but, alas! never more to rise and blow.
noooooo noo noooooo no nooooo; noo, nooo! noooo nooo no nooo noo nooo.




While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the
Noooo noooo nooo, noo noo, nooo noo noooo, no nooooooo nooo noo

six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling
noo-nooooo noooo; noo noooo, noooooo, noo nooo no nooooooo noo noooooo

this way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed
nooo noo noo nooo no noo nooooooo noo, noo nooooooo noooo noo nooooo

round and headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot
noooo noo nooooo nooo, noo noo noo, noo noooooooo nooooooooo noooo

across the slippery deck, like so many land slides, till at last
nooooo noo nooooooo nooo, nooo no nooo nooo nooooo, nooo no nooo

man-handled and stayed in their course; and all round the hoops, rap,
noo-noooooo noo nooooo no noooo nooooo; noo noo noooo noo noooo, noo,

rap, go as many hammers as can play upon them, for now, EX OFFICIO,
noo, no no nooo noooooo no noo nooo nooo nooo, noo noo, NO NOOOOOO,

every sailor is a cooper.
noooo nooooo no n nooooo.




At length, when the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the great
No nooooo, nooo noo nooo nooo no nooooo, noo noo no nooo, nooo noo noooo

hatchways are unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open, and down
noooooooo noo nooooooo, noo nooooo no noo nooo noo nooooo nooo, noo nooo

go the casks to their final rest in the sea. This done, the hatches are
no noo noooo no noooo noooo nooo no noo noo. Nooo nooo, noo noooooo noo

replaced, and hermetically closed, like a closet walled up.
nooooooo, noo nooooooooooo nooooo, nooo n nooooo nooooo no.




In the sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of the most remarkable
No noo noooo noooooo, nooo no noooooo noo no noo nooo nooooooooo

incidents in all the business of whaling. One day the planks stream with
noooooooo no noo noo nooooooo no noooooo. Noo noo noo nooooo nooooo nooo

freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred quarter-deck enormous masses of
nooooooo no noooo noo noo; no noo nooooo noooooo-nooo nooooooo nooooo no

the whale's head are profanely piled; great rusty casks lie about, as
noo noooo'n nooo noo noooooooo noooo; noooo noooo noooo noo noooo, no

in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has besooted all the
no n noooooo nooo; noo noooo nooo noo noo-noooo noo nooooooo noo noo

bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness; the entire
nooooooo; noo nooooooo no noooo nooooooo nooo nooooooooooo; noo nooooo

ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the din is
nooo noooo noooo noooooooo noooooo; noooo no noo noooo noo noo no

deafening.
noooooooo.




But a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears in this
Noo n noo no noo noooo, noo nooo noooo noo, noo noooo nooo nooo no nooo

self-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and try-works,
nooo-nooo nooo; noo nooo no noo noo noo nooo-nooo noooo noo noo-noooo,

you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel, with a
noo noooo noo noo noooo noo nooo nooo nooooo nooooooo nooooo, nooo n

most scrupulously neat commander. The unmanufactured sperm oil possesses
nooo nooooooooooo nooo noooooooo. Noo nooooooooooooo noooo noo noooooooo

a singularly cleansing virtue. This is the reason why the decks never
n nooooooooo noooooooo nooooo. Nooo no noo nooooo noo noo noooo noooo

look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil. Besides,
nooo no noooo no nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo no nooooo no noo. Noooooo,

from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a potent lye is
nooo noo noooo no noo nooooo nooooo no noo noooo, n nooooo noo no

readily made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale
noooooo nooo; noo nooooooo noo nooooooooooo nooo noo nooo no noo noooo

remains clinging to the side, that lye quickly exterminates it. Hands
noooooo nooooooo no noo nooo, nooo noo noooooo nooooooooooo no. Noooo

go diligently along the bulwarks, and with buckets of water and rags
no nooooooooo noooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo noooooo no noooo noo nooo

restore them to their full tidiness. The soot is brushed from the lower
noooooo nooo no noooo nooo nooooooo. Noo nooo no noooooo nooo noo noooo

rigging. All the numerous implements which have been in use are likewise
noooooo. Noo noo nooooooo nooooooooo noooo nooo nooo no noo noo nooooooo

faithfully cleansed and put away. The great hatch is scrubbed and placed
nooooooooo nooooooo noo noo nooo. Noo noooo noooo no nooooooo noo nooooo

upon the try-works, completely hiding the pots; every cask is out of
nooo noo noo-noooo, nooooooooo nooooo noo nooo; noooo nooo no noo no

sight; all tackles are coiled in unseen nooks; and when by the combined
noooo; noo noooooo noo nooooo no nooooo noooo; noo nooo no noo nooooooo

and simultaneous industry of almost the entire ship's company, the
noo nooooooooooo nooooooo no nooooo noo nooooo nooo'n noooooo, noo

whole of this conscientious duty is at last concluded, then the crew
noooo no nooo noooooooooooo nooo no no nooo noooooooo, nooo noo nooo

themselves proceed to their own ablutions; shift themselves from top to
nooooooooo noooooo no noooo noo noooooooo; noooo nooooooooo nooo noo no

toe; and finally issue to the immaculate deck, fresh and all aglow, as
noo; noo noooooo noooo no noo nooooooooo nooo, noooo noo noo noooo, no

bridegrooms new-leaped from out the daintiest Holland.
noooooooooo noo-nooooo nooo noo noo noooooooo Noooooo.




Now, with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and
Noo, nooo nooooo nooo, nooo nooo noo nooooo no nooo noo nooooo, noo

humorously discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics;
nooooooooo noooooooo no noooooo, noooo, noooooo, noo nooo nooooooo;

propose to mat the deck; think of having hanging to the top; object not
noooooo no noo noo nooo; noooo no nooooo noooooo no noo noo; nooooo noo

to taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle. To hint to
no nooooo noo no noooooooo no noo nooooo no noo nooooooooo. No nooo no

such musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short
nooo nooooo nooooooo no noo, noo nooo, noo noooooo, nooo nooooo noooo

of audacity. They know not the thing you distantly allude to. Away, and
no nooooooo. Nooo nooo noo noo noooo noo noooooooo nooooo no. Nooo, noo

bring us napkins!
noooo no noooooo!




But mark: aloft there, at the three mast heads, stand three men intent
Noo nooo: noooo noooo, no noo noooo nooo noooo, noooo noooo noo nooooo

on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again
no nooooo noo nooo nooooo, noooo, no nooooo, nooooooooo nooo noooo

soil the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
nooo noo noo noooo noooooooo, noo nooo no noooo noo noooo nooooo-nooo

somewhere. Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest
noooooooo. Noo; noo nooo no noo nooo, nooo, noooo noo nooooooo

uninterrupted labors, which know no night; continuing straight through
noooooooooooo nooooo, noooo nooo no noooo; nooooooooo nooooooo noooooo

for ninety-six hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their
noo nooooo-noo noooo; nooo nooo noo nooo, noooo nooo nooo noooooo noooo

wrists with all day rowing on the Line,--they only step to the deck to
nooooo nooo noo noo nooooo no noo Nooo,--nooo nooo nooo no noo nooo no

carry vast chains, and heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash, yea,
noooo nooo nooooo, noo noooo noo noooo nooooooo, noo noo noo noooo, noo,

and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined
noo no noooo nooo noooooooo no no nooooo noo nooooo nooo no noo nooooooo

fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try-works; when, on the
noooo no noo nooooooooo noo noo noo nooooooooo noo-noooo; nooo, no noo

heel of all this, they have finally bestirred themselves to cleanse the
nooo no noo nooo, nooo nooo noooooo noooooooo nooooooooo no noooooo noo

ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is the time the poor
nooo, noo nooo n nooooooo noooo nooo no no; nooo no noo nooo noo nooo

fellows, just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks, are startled by
noooooo, nooo noooooooo noo noooo no noooo noooo nooooo, noo nooooooo no

the cry of "There she blows!" and away they fly to fight another whale,
noo noo no "Noooo noo noooo!" noo nooo nooo noo no noooo noooooo noooo,

and go through the whole weary thing again. Oh! my friends, but this
noo no noooooo noo noooo noooo noooo noooo. No! no noooooo, noo nooo

is man-killing! Yet this is life. For hardly have we mortals by long
no noo-noooooo! Noo nooo no nooo. Noo nooooo nooo no noooooo no nooo

toilings extracted from this world's vast bulk its small but valuable
nooooooo noooooooo nooo nooo noooo'n nooo nooo noo noooo noo nooooooo

sperm; and then, with weary patience, cleansed ourselves from its
noooo; noo nooo, nooo noooo nooooooo, nooooooo noooooooo nooo noo

defilements, and learned to live here in clean tabernacles of the soul;
noooooooooo, noo noooooo no nooo nooo no noooo noooooooooo no noo nooo;

hardly is this done, when--THERE SHE BLOWS!--the ghost is spouted up,
nooooo no nooo nooo, nooo--NOOOO NOO NOOOO!--noo noooo no noooooo no,

and away we sail to fight some other world, and go through young life's
noo nooo no nooo no noooo nooo noooo noooo, noo no noooooo noooo nooo'n

old routine again.
noo noooooo noooo.




Oh! the metempsychosis! Oh! Pythagoras, that in bright Greece, two
No! noo nooooooooooooo! No! Nooooooooo, nooo no nooooo Nooooo, noo

thousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I sailed with
nooooooo noooo noo, noo noo, no nooo, no nooo, no nooo; N nooooo nooo

thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage--and, foolish as I am, taught
nooo noooo noo Nooooooo noooo nooo nooooo--noo, noooooo no N no, nooooo

thee, a green simple boy, how to splice a rope!
nooo, n noooo nooooo noo, noo no nooooo n nooo!










CHAPTER 99. The Doubloon.
NOOOOOO no. Noo Nooooooo.







Ere now it has been related how Ahab was wont to pace his quarter-deck,
Noo noo no noo nooo noooooo noo Nooo noo nooo no nooo noo noooooo-nooo,

taking regular turns at either limit, the binnacle and mainmast; but
nooooo noooooo noooo no nooooo noooo, noo nooooooo noo nooooooo; noo

in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it has not been
no noo nooooooooooo no noooo nooooo noooooooo noooooooo no noo noo nooo

added how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in his mood,
noooo noo nooo noooooooo no noooo noooo, nooo nooo noooooo no noo nooo,

he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there strangely
no noo nooo no noooo no nooo no nooo nooo, noo noooo noooo noooooooo

eyeing the particular object before him. When he halted before the
nooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo nooooo noo. Nooo no nooooo nooooo noo

binnacle, with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass,
nooooooo, nooo noo nooooo nooooooo no noo noooooo nooooo no noo noooooo,

that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his
nooo nooooo nooo nooo n noooooo nooo noo noooooo noooooooo no noo

purpose; and when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast,
noooooo; noo nooo nooooooo noo nooo no noooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo,

then, as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin
nooo, no noo nooo noooooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo nooo

there, he still wore the same aspect of nailed firmness, only dashed
noooo, no noooo nooo noo nooo nooooo no nooooo nooooooo, nooo nooooo

with a certain wild longing, if not hopefulness.
nooo n noooooo nooo noooooo, no noo noooooooooo.




But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed to be newly
Noo noo noooooo, noooooo no nooo noo nooooooo, no nooooo no no noooo

attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it, as
noooooooo no noo noooooo noooooo noo nooooooooooo noooooo no no, no

though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in
nooooo noo noo noo noooo nooo noooooooo no noooooooo noo noooooo no

some monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them. And some
nooo nooooooooo noo nooooooo nooooooooooo noooo nooo no nooo. Noo nooo

certain significance lurks in all things, else all things are little
noooooo nooooooooooo noooo no noo nooooo, nooo noo nooooo noo nooooo

worth, and the round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell by
noooo, noo noo noooo noooo nooooo noo no noooo nooooo, nooooo no nooo no

the cartload, as they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass in
noo nooooooo, no nooo no noooo noooo Nooooo, no nooo no nooo nooooo no

the Milky Way.
noo Noooo Noo.




Now this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of the
Noo nooo nooooooo noo no nooooo, nooooo nooo, noooo noooooooo noo no noo

heart of gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands, the
noooo no nooooooo noooo, nooooo, nooo noo nooo, nooo nooooo noooo, noo

head-waters of many a Pactolus flows. And though now nailed amidst all
nooo-nooooo no nooo n Nooooooo noooo. Noo nooooo noo nooooo nooooo noo

the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, yet,
noo noooooooo no nooo noooo noo noo noooooooo no nooooo nooooo, noo,

untouchable and immaculate to any foulness, it still preserved its Quito
noooooooooo noo nooooooooo no noo nooooooo, no noooo noooooooo noo Noooo

glow. Nor, though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour passed
nooo. Noo, nooooo nooooo noooooo n nooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo nooooo

by ruthless hands, and through the livelong nights shrouded with thick
no nooooooo noooo, noo noooooo noo nooooooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noooo

darkness which might cover any pilfering approach, nevertheless every
nooooooo noooo noooo noooo noo noooooooo nooooooo, nooooooooooo noooo

sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last. For it was
noooooo noooo noo nooooooo noooo noo nooooo nooo no nooo. Noo no noo

set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and however wanton
noo noooo noo nooooooooo no noo noo-nooooooo noo; noo noooooo nooooo

in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as the white
no noooo nooooo nooo, noo noo noo, noo nooooooo noooooo no no noo noooo

whale's talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch by
noooo'n nooooooo. Noooooooo nooo nooooo no nooo no noo noooo noooo no

night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he would ever
noooo, noooooooo noooo no noo no no no nooo, noo noooooo no noooo nooo

live to spend it.
nooo no noooo no.




Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the sun
Noo noooo noooo nooooo noooo no Noooo Noooooo noo no nooooo no noo noo

and tropic token-pieces. Here palms, alpacas, and volcanoes; sun's disks
noo nooooo noooo-nooooo. Nooo noooo, noooooo, noo noooooooo; noo'n noooo

and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich banners waving, are in
noo noooo; noooooooo, noooo-no-nooooo, noo nooo noooooo nooooo, noo no

luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold seems almost to
noooooooo noooooooo noooooo; no nooo noo nooooooo nooo noooo nooooo no

derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by passing through
nooooo no noooo nooooooooooo noo noooooooo noooooo, no noooooo noooooo

those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.
noooo noooo noooo, no Noooooooo nooooo.




It so chanced that the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy example
No no noooooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo Nooooo noo n nooo noooooo noooooo

of these things. On its round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL
no noooo nooooo. No noo noooo nooooo no nooo noo noooooo, NOOOOOOOO NOO

ECUADOR: QUITO. So this bright coin came from a country planted in the
NOOOOOO: NOOOO. No nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooo n noooooo noooooo no noo

middle of the world, and beneath the great equator, and named after it;
nooooo no noo noooo, noo noooooo noo noooo noooooo, noo noooo noooo no;

and it had been cast midway up the Andes, in the unwaning clime that
noo no noo nooo nooo nooooo no noo Noooo, no noo nooooooo noooo nooo

knows no autumn. Zoned by those letters you saw the likeness of three
noooo no nooooo. Noooo no noooo noooooo noo noo noo nooooooo no noooo

Andes' summits; from one a flame; a tower on another; on the third a
Noooo' noooooo; nooo noo n noooo; n noooo no noooooo; no noo noooo n

crowing cock; while arching over all was a segment of the partitioned
noooooo nooo; noooo noooooo nooo noo noo n noooooo no noo noooooooooo

zodiac, the signs all marked with their usual cabalistics, and the
nooooo, noo noooo noo nooooo nooo noooo noooo noooooooooo, noo noo

keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at Libra.
nooooooo noo nooooooo noo noooooooooo noooo no Noooo.




Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was now
Nooooo nooo nooooooooo nooo, Nooo, noo nooooooooo no nooooo, noo noo

pausing.
noooooo.




"There's something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, and
"Noooo'n noooooooo nooo noooooooooo no nooooooo-nooo noo nooooo, noo

all other grand and lofty things; look here,--three peaks as proud as
noo noooo noooo noo noooo nooooo; nooo nooo,--noooo noooo no noooo no

Lucifer. The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; the
Noooooo. Noo nooo noooo, nooo no Nooo; noo noooooo, nooo no Nooo; noo

courageous, the undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all
nooooooooo, noo noooooooo, noo nooooooooo nooo, nooo, noo, no Nooo; noo

are Ahab; and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe,
noo Nooo; noo nooo noooo nooo no noo noo noooo no noo noooooo noooo,

which, like a magician's glass, to each and every man in turn but
noooo, nooo n nooooooo'n noooo, no nooo noo noooo noo no nooo noo

mirrors back his own mysterious self. Great pains, small gains for those
noooooo nooo noo noo nooooooooo nooo. Noooo noooo, noooo noooo noo noooo

who ask the world to solve them; it cannot solve itself. Methinks now
noo noo noo noooo no noooo nooo; no nooooo noooo nooooo. Nooooooo noo

this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but see! aye, he enters the sign
nooo nooooo noo noooo n noooo nooo; noo noo! noo, no nooooo noo nooo

of storms, the equinox! and but six months before he wheeled out of a
no nooooo, noo noooooo! noo noo noo nooooo nooooo no noooooo noo no n

former equinox at Aries! From storm to storm! So be it, then. Born in
nooooo noooooo no Noooo! Nooo noooo no noooo! No no no, nooo. Nooo no

throes, 't is fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs! So be
nooooo, 'n no noo nooo noo nooooo nooo no noooo noo noo no noooo! No no

it, then! Here's stout stuff for woe to work on. So be it, then."
no, nooo! Nooo'n noooo noooo noo noo no nooo no. No no no, nooo."




"No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil's claws must
"No noooo noooooo noo nooo noooooo noo nooo, noo noooo'n noooo nooo

have left their mouldings there since yesterday," murmured Starbuck
nooo nooo noooo noooooooo noooo noooo noooooooo," nooooooo Nooooooo

to himself, leaning against the bulwarks. "The old man seems to read
no noooooo, noooooo noooooo noo nooooooo. "Noo noo noo noooo no nooo

Belshazzar's awful writing. I have never marked the coin inspectingly.
Nooooooooo'n noooo noooooo. N nooo noooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooooooo.

He goes below; let me read. A dark valley between three mighty,
No nooo noooo; noo no nooo. N nooo nooooo noooooo noooo nooooo,

heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint
nooooo-noooooo noooo, nooo nooooo nooo noo Noooooo, no nooo noooo

earthly symbol. So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over
noooooo nooooo. No no nooo nooo no Noooo, Noo noooo no noooo; noo nooo

all our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a
noo noo noooo, noo noo no Noooooooooooo noooo nooooo n nooooo noo n

hope. If we bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil;
nooo. No no nooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo nooo noooo noo nooooo nooo;

but if we lift them, the bright sun meets our glance half way, to cheer.
noo no no nooo nooo, noo nooooo noo noooo noo nooooo nooo noo, no noooo.

Yet, oh, the great sun is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain
Noo, no, noo noooo noo no no noooooo; noo no, no nooooooo, no noooo nooo

snatch some sweet solace from him, we gaze for him in vain! This coin
nooooo nooo noooo nooooo nooo noo, no nooo noo noo no nooo! Nooo nooo

speaks wisely, mildly, truly, but still sadly to me. I will quit it,
nooooo nooooo, nooooo, noooo, noo noooo noooo no no. N nooo nooo no,

lest Truth shake me falsely."
nooo Noooo noooo no noooooo."




"There now's the old Mogul," soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, "he's
"Noooo noo'n noo noo Noooo," nooooooooooo Noooo no noo noo-noooo, "no'n

been twigging it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with
nooo nooooooo no; noo noooo nooo Nooooooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo nooo

faces which I should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long.
noooo noooo N nooooo noo noooo no noooooooo nooooo nooo noooooo nooo.

And all from looking at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on
Noo noo nooo noooooo no n noooo no nooo, noooo noo N nooo no noo no

Negro Hill or in Corlaer's Hook, I'd not look at it very long ere
Noooo Nooo no no Noooooo'n Nooo, N'n noo nooo no no nooo nooo noo

spending it. Humph! in my poor, insignificant opinion, I regard this as
nooooooo no. Noooo! no no nooo, noooooooooooo noooooo, N nooooo nooo no

queer. I have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings; your doubloons
noooo. N nooo nooo noooooooo nooooo noo no no noooooooo; nooo noooooooo

of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru, your doubloons of Chili, your
no noo Noooo, nooo noooooooo no Nooo, nooo noooooooo no Noooo, nooo

doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of Popayan; with plenty of gold
noooooooo no Noooooo, nooo noooooooo no Noooooo; nooo nooooo no nooo

moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes, and quarter joes. What
nooooooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo, noo nooo nooo, noo noooooo nooo. Nooo

then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing
nooo nooooo noooo no no nooo nooooooo no noo Noooooo nooo no no noooooo

wonderful? By Golconda! let me read it once. Halloa! here's signs and
noooooooo? No Nooooooo! noo no nooo no nooo. Nooooo! nooo'n noooo noo

wonders truly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls the
noooooo noooo! Nooo, noo, no nooo noo Nooooooo no noo Noooooo noooo noo

zodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. I'll get the almanac and
nooooo, noo nooo no noooooo noooo noooo noooo. N'no noo noo noooooo noo

as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll's arithmetic, I'll try
no N nooo noooo nooooo noo no nooooo nooo Nooooo'n nooooooooo, N'no noo

my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with
no nooo no noooooo n noooooo noo no noooo noooo noooooooo nooo nooo

the Massachusetts calendar. Here's the book. Let's see now. Signs and
noo Noooooooooooo nooooooo. Nooo'n noo nooo. Noo'n noo noo. Noooo noo

wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em. Hem, hem, hem; here they
noooooo; noo noo noo, no'n nooooo noooo 'no. Noo, noo, noo; nooo nooo

are--here they go--all alive:--Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull
noo--nooo nooo no--noo noooo:--Noooo, no noo Noo; Nooooo, no noo Nooo

and Jimimi! here's Gemini himself, or the Twins. Well; the sun he
noo Nooooo! nooo'n Nooooo noooooo, no noo Noooo. Nooo; noo noo no

wheels among 'em. Aye, here on the coin he's just crossing the threshold
nooooo noooo 'no. Noo, nooo no noo nooo no'n nooo nooooooo noo noooooooo

between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring. Book! you lie there;
noooooo noo no nooooo noooooo-noooo noo no n nooo. Nooo! noo noo noooo;

the fact is, you books must know your places. You'll do to give us the
noo nooo no, noo noooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo. Noo'no no no nooo no noo

bare words and facts, but we come in to supply the thoughts. That's my
nooo noooo noo noooo, noo no nooo no no nooooo noo nooooooo. Nooo'n no

small experience, so far as the Massachusetts calendar, and Bowditch's
noooo nooooooooo, no noo no noo Noooooooooooo nooooooo, noo Nooooooo'n

navigator, and Daboll's arithmetic go. Signs and wonders, eh? Pity if
noooooooo, noo Nooooo'n nooooooooo no. Noooo noo noooooo, no? Nooo no

there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in wonders! There's
noooo no noooooo noooooooo no noooo, noo noooooooooo no noooooo! Noooo'n

a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist--hark! By Jove, I have it! Look you,
n nooo noooooooo; nooo n noo; nooo--nooo! No Nooo, N nooo no! Nooo noo,

Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter;
Nooooooo, nooo nooooo nooo no noo nooo no noo no noo noooo noooooo;

and now I'll read it off, straight out of the book. Come, Almanack! To
noo noo N'no nooo no noo, nooooooo noo no noo nooo. Nooo, Nooooooo! No

begin: there's Aries, or the Ram--lecherous dog, he begets us; then,
noooo: noooo'n Noooo, no noo Noo--noooooooo noo, no nooooo no; nooo,

Taurus, or the Bull--he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, or the
Nooooo, no noo Nooo--no noooo no noo noooo noooo; nooo Nooooo, no noo

Twins--that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo! comes
Noooo--nooo no, Nooooo noo Nooo; no noo no noooo Nooooo, nooo no! noooo

Cancer the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue, Leo,
Nooooo noo Nooo, noo noooo no nooo; noo nooo, noooo nooo Nooooo, Noo,

a roaring Lion, lies in the path--he gives a few fierce bites and surly
n noooooo Nooo, nooo no noo nooo--no noooo n noo nooooo noooo noo noooo

dabs with his paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin! that's our
nooo nooo noo noo; no nooooo, noo nooo Noooo, noo Nooooo! nooo'n noo

first love; we marry and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes
noooo nooo; no noooo noo noooo no no noooo noo noo, nooo noo noooo

Libra, or the Scales--happiness weighed and found wanting; and while we
Noooo, no noo Nooooo--noooooooo noooooo noo noooo noooooo; noo noooo no

are very sad about that, Lord! how we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the
noo nooo noo noooo nooo, Nooo! noo no nooooooo nooo, no Noooooo, no noo

Scorpion, stings us in the rear; we are curing the wound, when whang
Nooooooo, nooooo no no noo nooo; no noo nooooo noo noooo, nooo noooo

come the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the Archer, is amusing
nooo noo nooooo noo noooo; Noooooooooo, no noo Nooooo, no noooooo

himself. As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside! here's the
noooooo. No no noooo noo noo nooooo, noooo noooo! nooo'n noo

battering-ram, Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing,
noooooooo-noo, Noooooooooo, no noo Nooo; nooo nooo, no noooo noooooo,

and headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours
noo nooooooo no noo nooooo; nooo Nooooooo, no noo Noooo-nooooo, noooo

out his whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the
noo noo noooo nooooo noo nooooo no; noo no nooo no nooo Nooooo, no noo

Fishes, we sleep. There's a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and the
Nooooo, no noooo. Noooo'n n nooooo noo, nooo no nooo nooooo, noo noo

sun goes through it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and
noo nooo noooooo no noooo nooo, noo noo noooo noo no no noo noooo noo

hearty. Jollily he, aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; and
nooooo. Noooooo no, noooo noooo, nooooo noooooo nooo noo noooooo; noo

so, alow here, does jolly Stubb. Oh, jolly's the word for aye! Adieu,
no, nooo nooo, nooo noooo Noooo. No, noooo'n noo nooo noo noo! Noooo,

Doubloon! But stop; here comes little King-Post; dodge round the
Nooooooo! Noo nooo; nooo noooo nooooo Nooo-Nooo; noooo noooo noo

try-works, now, and let's hear what he'll have to say. There; he's
noo-noooo, noo, noo noo'n nooo nooo no'no nooo no noo. Noooo; no'n

before it; he'll out with something presently. So, so; he's beginning."
nooooo no; no'no noo nooo noooooooo noooooooo. No, no; no'n noooooooo."




"I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold, and whoever raises
"N noo noooooo nooo, noo n noooo noooo nooo no nooo, noo noooooo nooooo

a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him. So, what's all this
n noooooo noooo, nooo noooo noooo noooooo no noo. No, nooo'n noo nooo

staring been about? It is worth sixteen dollars, that's true; and at
noooooo nooo noooo? No no noooo noooooo noooooo, nooo'n nooo; noo no

two cents the cigar, that's nine hundred and sixty cigars. I won't smoke
noo noooo noo noooo, nooo'n nooo noooooo noo noooo nooooo. N noo'n noooo

dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and here's nine hundred and
noooo noooo nooo Noooo, noo N nooo nooooo, noo nooo'n nooo noooooo noo

sixty of them; so here goes Flask aloft to spy 'em out."
noooo no nooo; no nooo nooo Noooo noooo no noo 'no noo."




"Shall I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has a
"Noooo N nooo nooo nooo no noooooo, noo; no no no nooooo nooo no noo n

foolish look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, then has it a sort
noooooo nooo no no; noo, no no no nooooo noooooo, nooo noo no n nooo

of wiseish look to it. But, avast; here comes our old Manxman--the old
no noooooo nooo no no. Noo, noooo; nooo noooo noo noo Noooooo--noo noo

hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea. He
nooooo-nooooo, no nooo nooo nooo, nooo no, nooooo no nooo no noo noo. No

luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side
noooo no nooooo noo nooooooo; nooooo, noo nooo noooo no noo noooo nooo

of the mast; why, there's a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he's
no noo nooo; noo, noooo'n n noooo-nooo nooooo no nooo nooo; noo noo no'n

back again; what does that mean? Hark! he's muttering--voice like an old
nooo noooo; nooo nooo nooo nooo? Nooo! no'n noooooooo--noooo nooo no noo

worn-out coffee-mill. Prick ears, and listen!"
nooo-noo nooooo-nooo. Noooo nooo, noo nooooo!"




"If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when
"No noo Noooo Noooo no nooooo, no nooo no no n noooo noo n noo, nooo

the sun stands in some one of these signs. I've studied signs, and know
noo noo nooooo no nooo noo no noooo noooo. N'no noooooo noooo, noo nooo

their marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the old witch
noooo noooo; nooo nooo nooooo no noo noooo noooo noo, no noo noo noooo

in Copenhagen. Now, in what sign will the sun then be? The horse-shoe
no Nooooooooo. Noo, no nooo nooo nooo noo noo nooo no? Noo noooo-nooo

sign; for there it is, right opposite the gold. And what's the
nooo; noo noooo no no, noooo nooooooo noo nooo. Noo nooo'n noo

horse-shoe sign? The lion is the horse-shoe sign--the roaring and
noooo-nooo nooo? Noo nooo no noo noooo-nooo nooo--noo noooooo noo

devouring lion. Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of thee."
noooooooo nooo. Nooo, noo nooo! no noo nooo nooooo no noooo no nooo."




"There's another rendering now; but still one text. All sorts of men
"Noooo'n noooooo noooooooo noo; noo noooo noo nooo. Noo noooo no noo

in one kind of world, you see. Dodge again! here comes Queequeg--all
no noo nooo no noooo, noo noo. Noooo noooo! nooo noooo Nooooooo--noo

tattooing--looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself. What says the
noooooooo--noooo nooo noo noooo no noo Nooooo noooooo. Nooo nooo noo

Cannibal? As I live he's comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone;
Nooooooo? No N nooo no'n noooooooo noooo; noooooo no noo noooo nooo;

thinks the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I
nooooo noo noo no no noo noooo, no no noo nooo, no no noo nooooo, N

suppose, as the old women talk Surgeon's Astronomy in the back country.
noooooo, no noo noo noooo nooo Noooooo'n Noooooooo no noo nooo noooooo.

And by Jove, he's found something there in the vicinity of his thigh--I
Noo no Nooo, no'n noooo noooooooo noooo no noo nooooooo no noo noooo--N

guess it's Sagittarius, or the Archer. No: he don't know what to make
noooo no'n Noooooooooo, no noo Nooooo. No: no noo'n nooo nooo no nooo

of the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king's trowsers.
no noo nooooooo; no noooo no noo no noo nooooo noo nooo nooo'n nooooooo.

But, aside again! here comes that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail coiled out
Noo, noooo noooo! nooo noooo nooo noooo-noooo, Nooooooo; nooo nooooo noo

of sight as usual, oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual. What does he
no noooo no noooo, noooo no noo nooo no noo noooo no noooo. Nooo nooo no

say, with that look of his? Ah, only makes a sign to the sign and bows
noo, nooo nooo nooo no noo? No, nooo noooo n nooo no noo nooo noo nooo

himself; there is a sun on the coin--fire worshipper, depend upon it.
noooooo; noooo no n noo no noo nooo--nooo nooooooooo, nooooo nooo no.

Ho! more and more. This way comes Pip--poor boy! would he had died,
No! nooo noo nooo. Nooo noo noooo Noo--nooo noo! noooo no noo nooo,

or I; he's half horrible to me. He too has been watching all of these
no N; no'n nooo nooooooo no no. No noo noo nooo nooooooo noo no noooo

interpreters--myself included--and look now, he comes to read, with that
nooooooooooo--nooooo nooooooo--noo nooo noo, no noooo no nooo, nooo nooo

unearthly idiot face. Stand away again and hear him. Hark!"
noooooooo noooo nooo. Noooo nooo noooo noo nooo noo. Nooo!"




"I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look."
"N nooo, noo nooo, no noooo; no nooo, no nooo, nooo nooo."




"Upon my soul, he's been studying Murray's Grammar! Improving his mind,
"Nooo no nooo, no'n nooo nooooooo Nooooo'n Noooooo! Noooooooo noo nooo,

poor fellow! But what's that he says now--hist!"
nooo nooooo! Noo nooo'n nooo no nooo noo--nooo!"




"I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look."
"N nooo, noo nooo, no noooo; no nooo, no nooo, nooo nooo."




"Why, he's getting it by heart--hist! again."
"Noo, no'n noooooo no no noooo--nooo! noooo."




"I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look."
"N nooo, noo nooo, no noooo; no nooo, no nooo, nooo nooo."




"Well, that's funny."
"Nooo, nooo'n noooo."




"And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I'm a crow,
"Noo N, noo, noo no; noo no, no, noo nooo, noo noo nooo; noo N'n n nooo,

especially when I stand a'top of this pine tree here. Caw! caw! caw!
nooooooooo nooo N noooo n'noo no nooo nooo nooo nooo. Noo! noo! noo!

caw! caw! caw! Ain't I a crow? And where's the scare-crow? There he
noo! noo! noo! Noo'n N n nooo? Noo noooo'n noo noooo-nooo? Noooo no

stands; two bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more poked
nooooo; noo noooo noooo nooo n nooo no noo nooooooo, noo noo nooo noooo

into the sleeves of an old jacket."
nooo noo noooooo no no noo nooooo."




"Wonder if he means me?--complimentary!--poor lad!--I could go hang
"Nooooo no no noooo no?--noooooooooooo!--nooo noo!--N noooo no nooo

myself. Any way, for the present, I'll quit Pip's vicinity. I can stand
nooooo. Noo noo, noo noo noooooo, N'no nooo Noo'n nooooooo. N noo noooo

the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty for my
noo nooo, noo nooo nooo noooo nooo; noo no'n noo noooo-noooo noo no

sanity. So, so, I leave him muttering."
nooooo. No, no, N noooo noo noooooooo."




"Here's the ship's navel, this doubloon here, and they are all on fire
"Nooo'n noo nooo'n noooo, nooo nooooooo nooo, noo nooo noo noo no nooo

to unscrew it. But, unscrew your navel, and what's the consequence? Then
no noooooo no. Noo, noooooo nooo noooo, noo nooo'n noo noooooooooo? Nooo

again, if it stays here, that is ugly, too, for when aught's nailed to
noooo, no no noooo nooo, nooo no nooo, noo, noo nooo noooo'n nooooo no

the mast it's a sign that things grow desperate. Ha, ha! old Ahab!
noo nooo no'n n nooo nooo nooooo nooo noooooooo. No, no! noo Nooo!

the White Whale; he'll nail ye! This is a pine tree. My father, in old
noo Noooo Noooo; no'no nooo no! Nooo no n nooo nooo. No nooooo, no noo

Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and found a silver ring grown
Noooooo nooooo, noo nooo n nooo nooo nooo, noo noooo n nooooo nooo noooo

over in it; some old darkey's wedding ring. How did it get there? And
nooo no no; nooo noo nooooo'n noooooo nooo. Noo noo no noo noooo? Noo

so they'll say in the resurrection, when they come to fish up this old
no nooo'no noo no noo nooooooooooo, nooo nooo nooo no nooo no nooo noo

mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters for the
nooo, noo nooo n nooooooo nooooo no no, nooo nooooo noooooo noo noo

shaggy bark. Oh, the gold! the precious, precious, gold! the green
nooooo nooo. No, noo nooo! noo nooooooo, nooooooo, nooo! noo noooo

miser'll hoard ye soon! Hish! hish! God goes 'mong the worlds
noooo'no noooo no nooo! Nooo! nooo! Noo nooo 'nooo noo nooooo

blackberrying. Cook! ho, cook! and cook us! Jenny! hey, hey, hey, hey,
noooooooooooo. Nooo! no, nooo! noo nooo no! Noooo! noo, noo, noo, noo,

hey, Jenny, Jenny! and get your hoe-cake done!"
noo, Noooo, Noooo! noo noo nooo noo-nooo nooo!"










CHAPTER 100. Leg and Arm.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo noo Noo.




The Pequod, of Nantucket, Meets the Samuel Enderby, of London.
Noo Nooooo, no Noooooooo, Noooo noo Nooooo Noooooo, no Nooooo.







"Ship, ahoy! Hast seen the White Whale?"
"Nooo, nooo! Nooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo?"




So cried Ahab, once more hailing a ship showing English colours, bearing
No noooo Nooo, nooo nooo noooooo n nooo noooooo Noooooo noooooo, noooooo

down under the stern. Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his
nooo noooo noo noooo. Noooooo no noooo, noo noo noo noo nooooooo no noo

hoisted quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger
noooooo noooooo-nooo, noo noooo noo noooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo

captain, who was carelessly reclining in his own boat's bow. He was
noooooo, noo noo nooooooooo noooooooo no noo noo nooo'n noo. No noo

a darkly-tanned, burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of sixty or
n nooooo-nooooo, noooo, nooo-noooooo, nooo-noooooo noo, no noooo no

thereabouts, dressed in a spacious roundabout, that hung round him in
noooooooooo, noooooo no n nooooooo nooooooooo, nooo nooo noooo noo no

festoons of blue pilot-cloth; and one empty arm of this jacket streamed
nooooooo no nooo noooo-noooo; noo noo noooo noo no nooo nooooo nooooooo

behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar's surcoat.
nooooo noo nooo noo noooooooo noo no n nooooo'n noooooo.




"Hast seen the White Whale!"
"Nooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo!"




"See you this?" and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it,
"Noo noo nooo?" noo noooooooooo no nooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooo no,

he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden head
no nooo no n noooo noo no noooo noooo nooo, noooooooooo no n nooooo nooo

like a mallet.
nooo n nooooo.




"Man my boat!" cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near
"Noo no nooo!" noooo Nooo, noooooooooo, noo noooooo noooo noo nooo nooo

him--"Stand by to lower!"
noo--"Noooo no no noooo!"




In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and his
No nooo nooo n nooooo, noooooo nooooooo noo nooooo noooo, no noo noo

crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the stranger.
nooo nooo noooooo no noo noooo, noo nooo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo.

But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In the excitement of the
Noo nooo n noooooo nooooooooo noooooooo nooooo. No noo nooooooooo no noo

moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never
nooooo, Nooo noo noooooooo nooo noooo noo nooo no noo noo no noo noooo

once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own, and then it was
nooo noooooo no noooo no noo nooooo no noo noo noo noo, noo nooo no noo

always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to
nooooo no no noooooooo noo nooo noooo nooooooooo noooooooooo nooooooo no

the Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other
noo Nooooo, noo n noooo noo no no nooooo noo noooooo no noo noooo

vessel at a moment's warning. Now, it is no very easy matter
nooooo no n nooooo'n noooooo. Noo, no no no nooo nooo nooooo

for anybody--except those who are almost hourly used to it, like
noo noooooo--nooooo noooo noo noo nooooo nooooo nooo no no, nooo

whalemen--to clamber up a ship's side from a boat on the open sea; for
nooooooo--no noooooo no n nooo'n nooo nooo n nooo no noo nooo noo; noo

the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks, and
noo noooo nooooo noo nooo noo nooo nooo no noooooo noo nooooooo, noo

then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson. So, deprived
nooo noooooooooooooo nooo no nooo noo nooo no noo nooooo. No, nooooooo

of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogether unsupplied
no noo noo, noo noo noooooo nooo no nooooo noooo nooooooooo nooooooooo

with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced to a
nooo noo nooooo noooooooo, Nooo noo noooo noooooo nooooooo noooooo no n

clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height
nooooo nooooooo noooo; nooooooooo nooooo noo noooooooo noooooooo nooooo

he could hardly hope to attain.
no noooo nooooo nooo no nooooo.




It has before been hinted, perhaps, that every little untoward
No noo nooooo nooo nooooo, noooooo, nooo noooo nooooo nooooooo

circumstance that befell him, and which indirectly sprang from his
nooooooooooo nooo nooooo noo, noo noooo nooooooooo nooooo nooo noo

luckless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated Ahab. And
nooooooo nooooo, nooooo nooooooooo noooooooo no noooooooooo Nooo. Noo

in the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of the
no noo noooooo nooooooo, noo nooo noo nooooooooo no noo noooo no noo

two officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the
noo nooooooo no noo noooooo nooo, noooooo nooo noo nooo, no noo

perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there, and swinging towards him a
noooooooooooo nooooo no nooooo nooooo noooo, noo nooooooo noooooo noo n

pair of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem
nooo no nooooooooo-nooooooooo noo-noooo; noo no noooo nooo noo noo nooo

to bethink them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to
no noooooo nooo nooo n noo-nooooo noo nooo no noo nooo no n noooooo no

use their sea bannisters. But this awkwardness only lasted a minute,
noo noooo noo nooooooooo. Noo nooo noooooooooo nooo nooooo n nooooo,

because the strange captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood,
noooooo noo noooooo noooooo, noooooooo no n nooooo noo noooooo noooo,

cried out, "I see, I see!--avast heaving there! Jump, boys, and swing
noooo noo, "N noo, N noo!--noooo noooooo noooo! Nooo, nooo, noo noooo

over the cutting-tackle."
nooo noo noooooo-nooooo."




As good luck would have it, they had had a whale alongside a day or two
No nooo nooo noooo nooo no, nooo noo noo n noooo noooooooo n noo no noo

previous, and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massive curved
nooooooo, noo noo noooo noooooo nooo noooo noooo, noo noo noooooo nooooo

blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end. This
noooooo-nooo, noo noooo noo noo, noo noooo nooooooo no noo noo. Nooo

was quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all, slid his
noo noooooo noooooo no Nooo, noo no nooo noooooooooooo no noo, nooo noo

solitary thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sitting in the
nooooooo noooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooo (no noo nooo noooooo no noo

fluke of an anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and then giving the
noooo no no nooooo, no noo nooooo no no noooo nooo), noo nooo nooooo noo

word, held himself fast, and at the same time also helped to hoist his
nooo, nooo noooooo nooo, noo no noo nooo nooo nooo nooooo no noooo noo

own weight, by pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running parts of
noo nooooo, no noooooo nooo-nooo-nooo nooo noo no noo noooooo noooo no

the tackle. Soon he was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks, and
noo nooooo. Nooo no noo noooooooo noooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo, noo

gently landed upon the capstan head. With his ivory arm frankly thrust
nooooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo. Nooo noo noooo noo noooooo nooooo

forth in welcome, the other captain advanced, and Ahab, putting out his
noooo no noooooo, noo noooo noooooo nooooooo, noo Nooo, noooooo noo noo

ivory leg, and crossing the ivory arm (like two sword-fish blades)
noooo noo, noo nooooooo noo noooo noo (nooo noo noooo-nooo nooooo)

cried out in his walrus way, "Aye, aye, hearty! let us shake bones
noooo noo no noo nooooo noo, "Noo, noo, nooooo! noo no noooo noooo

together!--an arm and a leg!--an arm that never can shrink, d'ye
nooooooo!--no noo noo n noo!--no noo nooo noooo noo nooooo, n'no

see; and a leg that never can run. Where did'st thou see the White
noo; noo n noo nooo noooo noo noo. Noooo noo'no nooo noo noo Noooo

Whale?--how long ago?"
Noooo?--noo nooo noo?"




"The White Whale," said the Englishman, pointing his ivory arm towards
"Noo Noooo Noooo," nooo noo Nooooooooo, nooooooo noo noooo noo noooooo

the East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a
noo Nooo, noo nooooo n nooooo noooo noooo no, no no no noo nooo n

telescope; "there I saw him, on the Line, last season."
noooooooo; "noooo N noo noo, no noo Nooo, nooo nooooo."




"And he took that arm off, did he?" asked Ahab, now sliding down from
"Noo no nooo nooo noo noo, noo no?" noooo Nooo, noo noooooo nooo nooo

the capstan, and resting on the Englishman's shoulder, as he did so.
noo noooooo, noo noooooo no noo Nooooooooo'n nooooooo, no no noo no.




"Aye, he was the cause of it, at least; and that leg, too?"
"Noo, no noo noo noooo no no, no noooo; noo nooo noo, noo?"




"Spin me the yarn," said Ahab; "how was it?"
"Nooo no noo nooo," nooo Nooo; "noo noo no?"




"It was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line,"
"No noo noo noooo nooo no no nooo nooo N nooo noooooo no noo Nooo,"

began the Englishman. "I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.
noooo noo Nooooooooo. "N noo nooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo no nooo nooo.

Well, one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat
Nooo, noo noo no noooooo noo n noo no nooo no nooo nooooo, noo no nooo

fastened to one of them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went
nooooooo no noo no nooo; n noooooo nooooo noooo no noo, noo, nooo nooo

milling and milling round so, that my boat's crew could only trim dish,
noooooo noo noooooo noooo no, nooo no nooo'n nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo,

by sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale. Presently up breaches
no noooooo noo noooo nooooo no noo noooo noooooo. Noooooooo no nooooooo

from the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white
nooo noo nooooo no noo noo n nooooooo noooo noooo, nooo n noooo-noooo

head and hump, all crows' feet and wrinkles."
nooo noo nooo, noo noooo' nooo noo nooooooo."




"It was he, it was he!" cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his suspended
"No noo no, no noo no!" noooo Nooo, nooooooo noooooo noo noo noooooooo

breath.
nooooo.




"And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin."
"Noo nooooooo nooooooo no nooo noo noooooooo noo."




"Aye, aye--they were mine--MY irons," cried Ahab, exultingly--"but on!"
"Noo, noo--nooo nooo nooo--NO noooo," noooo Nooo, nooooooooo--"noo no!"




"Give me a chance, then," said the Englishman, good-humoredly. "Well,
"Nooo no n nooooo, nooo," nooo noo Nooooooooo, nooo-noooooooo. "Nooo,

this old great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all afoam
nooo noo noooo-noooooooooo, nooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo, nooo noo noooo

into the pod, and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line!
nooo noo noo, noo nooo no nooooooo noooooooo no no nooo-nooo!




"Aye, I see!--wanted to part it; free the fast-fish--an old trick--I
"Noo, N noo!--nooooo no nooo no; nooo noo nooo-nooo--no noo noooo--N

know him."
nooo noo."




"How it was exactly," continued the one-armed commander, "I do not know;
"Noo no noo noooooo," noooooooo noo noo-noooo noooooooo, "N no noo nooo;

but in biting the line, it got foul of his teeth, caught there somehow;
noo no nooooo noo nooo, no noo nooo no noo noooo, nooooo noooo noooooo;

but we didn't know it then; so that when we afterwards pulled on the
noo no nooo'n nooo no nooo; no nooo nooo no nooooooooo nooooo no noo

line, bounce we came plump on to his hump! instead of the other whale's;
nooo, nooooo no nooo noooo no no noo nooo! noooooo no noo noooo noooo'n;

that went off to windward, all fluking. Seeing how matters stood, and
nooo nooo noo no nooooooo, noo noooooo. Nooooo noo noooooo noooo, noo

what a noble great whale it was--the noblest and biggest I ever saw,
nooo n noooo noooo noooo no noo--noo noooooo noo noooooo N nooo noo,

sir, in my life--I resolved to capture him, spite of the boiling rage
noo, no no nooo--N nooooooo no noooooo noo, noooo no noo noooooo nooo

he seemed to be in. And thinking the hap-hazard line would get loose, or
no nooooo no no no. Noo nooooooo noo noo-nooooo nooo noooo noo noooo, no

the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have a devil of a boat's
noo noooo no noo noooooo no noooo nooo (noo N nooo n noooo no n nooo'n

crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I say, I jumped
nooo noo n nooo no n noooo-nooo); nooooo noo nooo, N noo, N nooooo

into my first mate's boat--Mr. Mounttop's here (by the way,
nooo no noooo nooo'n nooo--No. Nooooooo'n nooo (no noo noo,

Captain--Mounttop; Mounttop--the captain);--as I was saying, I jumped
Noooooo--Nooooooo; Nooooooo--noo noooooo);--no N noo nooooo, N nooooo

into Mounttop's boat, which, d'ye see, was gunwale and gunwale
nooo Nooooooo'n nooo, noooo, n'no noo, noo noooooo noo noooooo

with mine, then; and snatching the first harpoon, let this old
nooo nooo, nooo; noo noooooooo noo noooo noooooo, noo nooo noo

great-grandfather have it. But, Lord, look you, sir--hearts and souls
noooo-noooooooooo nooo no. Noo, Nooo, nooo noo, noo--nooooo noo noooo

alive, man--the next instant, in a jiff, I was blind as a bat--both
noooo, noo--noo nooo noooooo, no n nooo, N noo noooo no n noo--nooo

eyes out--all befogged and bedeadened with black foam--the whale's tail
nooo noo--noo nooooooo noo nooooooooo nooo noooo nooo--noo noooo'n nooo

looming straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air, like a marble
noooooo nooooooo no noo no no, noooooooooooo no noo noo, nooo n nooooo

steeple. No use sterning all, then; but as I was groping at midday, with
noooooo. No noo nooooooo noo, nooo; noo no N noo noooooo no nooooo, nooo

a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say, after the
n nooooooo noo, noo noooo-nooooo; no N noo noooooo, N noo, noooo noo

second iron, to toss it overboard--down comes the tail like a Lima
nooooo nooo, no nooo no noooooooo--nooo noooo noo nooo nooo n Nooo

tower, cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and,
noooo, noooooo no nooo no noo, noooooo nooo nooo no noooooooo; noo,

flukes first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it was
nooooo noooo, noo noooo nooo nooooo noooooo noo noooo, no nooooo no noo

all chips. We all struck out. To escape his terrible flailings, I seized
noo noooo. No noo nooooo noo. No nooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo, N nooooo

hold of my harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung to that
nooo no no noooooo-nooo nooooooo no noo, noo noo n nooooo noooo no nooo

like a sucking fish. But a combing sea dashed me off, and at the same
nooo n noooooo nooo. Noo n noooooo noo nooooo no noo, noo no noo nooo

instant, the fish, taking one good dart forwards, went down like a
noooooo, noo nooo, nooooo noo nooo nooo nooooooo, nooo nooo nooo n

flash; and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along near me
noooo; noo noo nooo no nooo nooooo nooooo nooo nooooo noooo nooo no

caught me here" (clapping his hand just below his shoulder); "yes,
nooooo no nooo" (nooooooo noo nooo nooo noooo noo nooooooo); "noo,

caught me just here, I say, and bore me down to Hell's flames, I was
nooooo no nooo nooo, N noo, noo nooo no nooo no Nooo'n nooooo, N noo

thinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank the good God, the barb ript
nooooooo; nooo, nooo, noo no n nooooo, noooo noo nooo Noo, noo nooo nooo

its way along the flesh--clear along the whole length of my arm--came
noo noo noooo noo noooo--noooo noooo noo noooo nooooo no no noo--nooo

out nigh my wrist, and up I floated;--and that gentleman there will tell
noo nooo no noooo, noo no N noooooo;--noo nooo noooooooo noooo nooo nooo

you the rest (by the way, captain--Dr. Bunger, ship's surgeon: Bunger,
noo noo nooo (no noo noo, noooooo--No. Nooooo, nooo'n noooooo: Nooooo,

my lad,--the captain). Now, Bunger boy, spin your part of the yarn."
no noo,--noo noooooo). Noo, Nooooo noo, nooo nooo nooo no noo nooo."




The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had been all the
Noo nooooooooooo noooooooo nooo nooooooooo noooooo noo, noo nooo noo noo

time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to denote his
nooo nooooooo nooo nooo, nooo noooooo nooooooo noooooo, no nooooo noo

gentlemanly rank on board. His face was an exceedingly round but sober
noooooooooo nooo no noooo. Noo nooo noo no noooooooooo noooo noo noooo

one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, and patched
noo; no noo noooooo no n noooo nooo noooooo noooo no noooo, noo noooooo

trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a
nooooooo; noo noo nooo noo nooo nooooooo noo noooooooo noooooo n

marlingspike he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other,
nooooooooooo no nooo no noo nooo, noo n nooo-noo nooo no noo noooo,

occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two
nooooooooooo noooooo n nooooooo nooooo no noo noooo noooo no noo noo

crippled captains. But, at his superior's introduction of him to Ahab,
nooooooo nooooooo. Noo, no noo nooooooo'n nooooooooooo no noo no Nooo,

he politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain's bidding.
no nooooooo noooo, noo noooooooooo nooo no no no noo noooooo'n noooooo.




"It was a shocking bad wound," began the whale-surgeon; "and, taking my
"No noo n nooooooo noo noooo," noooo noo noooo-noooooo; "noo, nooooo no

advice, Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy--"
nooooo, Noooooo Nooooo nooo, noooo noo noo Noooo--"




"Samuel Enderby is the name of my ship," interrupted the one-armed
"Nooooo Noooooo no noo nooo no no nooo," noooooooooo noo noo-noooo

captain, addressing Ahab; "go on, boy."
noooooo, nooooooooo Nooo; "no no, noo."




"Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing hot
"Noooo noo noo Noooo noo no noo noooooooo, no noo noo no noo noooooo noo

weather there on the Line. But it was no use--I did all I could; sat up
noooooo noooo no noo Nooo. Noo no noo no noo--N noo noo N noooo; noo no

with him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet--"
nooo noo nooooo; noo nooo nooooo nooo noo no noo nooooo no nooo--"




"Oh, very severe!" chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly altering
"No, nooo nooooo!" nooooo no noo noooooo noooooo; nooo nooooooo nooooooo

his voice, "Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till he
noo noooo, "Nooooooo noo noo noooooo nooo no noooo noooo, nooo no

couldn't see to put on the bandages; and sending me to bed, half seas
nooooo'n noo no noo no noo nooooooo; noo noooooo no no noo, nooo nooo

over, about three o'clock in the morning. Oh, ye stars! he sat up with
nooo, noooo noooo n'noooo no noo noooooo. No, no noooo! no noo no nooo

me indeed, and was very severe in my diet. Oh! a great watcher, and very
no nooooo, noo noo nooo nooooo no no nooo. No! n noooo noooooo, noo nooo

dietetically severe, is Dr. Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh out! why
nooooooooooo nooooo, no No. Nooooo. (Nooooo, noo noo, noooo noo! noo

don't ye? You know you're a precious jolly rascal.) But, heave ahead,
noo'n no? Noo nooo noo'no n nooooooo noooo nooooo.) Noo, noooo noooo,

boy, I'd rather be killed by you than kept alive by any other man."
noo, N'n nooooo no nooooo no noo nooo nooo noooo no noo noooo noo."




"My captain, you must have ere this perceived, respected sir"--said the
"No noooooo, noo nooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo, noooooooo noo"--nooo noo

imperturbable godly-looking Bunger, slightly bowing to Ahab--"is apt to
noooooooooooo noooo-noooooo Nooooo, nooooooo nooooo no Nooo--"no noo no

be facetious at times; he spins us many clever things of that sort. But
no noooooooo no noooo; no noooo no nooo nooooo nooooo no nooo nooo. Noo

I may as well say--en passant, as the French remark--that I myself--that
N noo no nooo noo--no noooooo, no noo Nooooo nooooo--nooo N nooooo--nooo

is to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend clergy--am a strict total
no no noo, Nooo Nooooo, nooo no noo nooooooo nooooo--no n nooooo noooo

abstinence man; I never drink--"
nooooooooo noo; N noooo noooo--"




"Water!" cried the captain; "he never drinks it; it's a sort of fits to
"Noooo!" noooo noo noooooo; "no noooo nooooo no; no'n n nooo no nooo no

him; fresh water throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on--go on with
noo; noooo noooo nooooo noo nooo noo noooooooooo; noo no no--no no nooo

the arm story."
noo noo noooo."




"Yes, I may as well," said the surgeon, coolly. "I was about observing,
"Noo, N noo no nooo," nooo noo noooooo, nooooo. "N noo noooo noooooooo,

sir, before Captain Boomer's facetious interruption, that spite of my
noo, nooooo Noooooo Nooooo'n noooooooo nooooooooooo, nooo noooo no no

best and severest endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse; the
nooo noo nooooooo noooooooo, noo noooo nooo noooooo noooo noo noooo; noo

truth was, sir, it was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw; more
noooo noo, noo, no noo no nooo nooooo noooo no noooooo nooo noo; nooo

than two feet and several inches long. I measured it with the lead line.
nooo noo nooo noo noooooo nooooo nooo. N nooooooo no nooo noo nooo nooo.

In short, it grew black; I knew what was threatened, and off it came.
No noooo, no nooo noooo; N nooo nooo noo nooooooooo, noo noo no nooo.

But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing is
Noo N noo no nooo no nooooooo nooo noooo noo noooo; nooo noooo no

against all rule"--pointing at it with the marlingspike--"that is the
noooooo noo nooo"--nooooooo no no nooo noo nooooooooooo--"nooo no noo

captain's work, not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had
noooooo'n nooo, noo nooo; no noooooo noo noooooooo no nooo no; no noo

that club-hammer there put to the end, to knock some one's brains
nooo nooo-nooooo noooo noo no noo noo, no noooo nooo noo'n nooooo

out with, I suppose, as he tried mine once. He flies into diabolical
noo nooo, N noooooo, no no noooo nooo nooo. No noooo nooo nooooooooo

passions sometimes. Do ye see this dent, sir"--removing his hat, and
nooooooo noooooooo. No no noo nooo nooo, noo"--nooooooo noo noo, noo

brushing aside his hair, and exposing a bowl-like cavity in his skull,
nooooooo noooo noo nooo, noo nooooooo n nooo-nooo nooooo no noo noooo,

but which bore not the slightest scarry trace, or any token of ever
noo noooo nooo noo noo noooooooo nooooo noooo, no noo noooo no nooo

having been a wound--"Well, the captain there will tell you how that
nooooo nooo n noooo--"Nooo, noo noooooo noooo nooo nooo noo noo nooo

came here; he knows."
nooo nooo; no noooo."




"No, I don't," said the captain, "but his mother did; he was born with
"No, N noo'n," nooo noo noooooo, "noo noo nooooo noo; no noo nooo nooo

it. Oh, you solemn rogue, you--you Bunger! was there ever such another
no. No, noo nooooo noooo, noo--noo Nooooo! noo noooo nooo nooo noooooo

Bunger in the watery world? Bunger, when you die, you ought to die in
Nooooo no noo nooooo noooo? Nooooo, nooo noo noo, noo noooo no noo no

pickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future ages, you rascal."
nooooo, noo noo; noo nooooo no noooooooo no nooooo nooo, noo nooooo."




"What became of the White Whale?" now cried Ahab, who thus far had been
"Nooo nooooo no noo Noooo Noooo?" noo noooo Nooo, noo nooo noo noo nooo

impatiently listening to this by-play between the two Englishmen.
noooooooooo noooooooo no nooo no-nooo noooooo noo noo Nooooooooo.




"Oh!" cried the one-armed captain, "oh, yes! Well; after he sounded,
"No!" noooo noo noo-noooo noooooo, "no, noo! Nooo; noooo no noooooo,

we didn't see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted, I
no nooo'n noo noo noooo noo nooo nooo; no nooo, no N nooooo nooooo, N

didn't then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick, till
nooo'n nooo nooo nooo noooo no noo nooo noo nooooo no nooo n noooo, nooo

some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard about Moby
nooo nooo nooooooooo, nooo nooooo nooo no noo Nooo, no noooo noooo Nooo

Dick--as some call him--and then I knew it was he."
Nooo--no nooo nooo noo--noo nooo N nooo no noo no."




"Did'st thou cross his wake again?"
"Noo'no nooo noooo noo nooo noooo?"




"Twice."
"Noooo."




"But could not fasten?"
"Noo noooo noo nooooo?"




"Didn't want to try to: ain't one limb enough? What should I do without
"Nooo'n nooo no noo no: noo'n noo nooo nooooo? Nooo nooooo N no noooooo

this other arm? And I'm thinking Moby Dick doesn't bite so much as he
nooo noooo noo? Noo N'n nooooooo Nooo Nooo noooo'n nooo no nooo no no

swallows."
nooooooo."




"Well, then," interrupted Bunger, "give him your left arm for bait to
"Nooo, nooo," noooooooooo Nooooo, "nooo noo nooo nooo noo noo nooo no

get the right. Do you know, gentlemen"--very gravely and mathematically
noo noo noooo. No noo nooo, noooooooo"--nooo noooooo noo nooooooooooooo

bowing to each Captain in succession--"Do you know, gentlemen, that the
nooooo no nooo Noooooo no nooooooooo--"No noo nooo, noooooooo, nooo noo

digestive organs of the whale are so inscrutably constructed by Divine
noooooooo nooooo no noo noooo noo no noooooooooo noooooooooo no Nooooo

Providence, that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest
Nooooooooo, nooo no no noooo nooooooooo noo noo no nooooooooo nooooo

even a man's arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for the
nooo n noo'n noo? Noo no noooo no noo. No nooo nooo noo nooo noo noo

White Whale's malice is only his awkwardness. For he never means
Noooo Noooo'n nooooo no nooo noo noooooooooo. Noo no noooo noooo

to swallow a single limb; he only thinks to terrify by feints. But
no noooooo n nooooo nooo; no nooo nooooo no noooooo no nooooo. Noo

sometimes he is like the old juggling fellow, formerly a patient of mine
noooooooo no no nooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo, nooooooo n noooooo no nooo

in Ceylon, that making believe swallow jack-knives, once upon a time let
no Nooooo, nooo nooooo noooooo noooooo nooo-nooooo, nooo nooo n nooo noo

one drop into him in good earnest, and there it stayed for a twelvemonth
noo nooo nooo noo no nooo noooooo, noo noooo no nooooo noo n noooooooooo

or more; when I gave him an emetic, and he heaved it up in small tacks,
no nooo; nooo N nooo noo no nooooo, noo no nooooo no no no noooo noooo,

d'ye see. No possible way for him to digest that jack-knife, and fully
n'no noo. No nooooooo noo noo noo no nooooo nooo nooo-noooo, noo noooo

incorporate it into his general bodily system. Yes, Captain Boomer, if
noooooooooo no nooo noo noooooo nooooo nooooo. Noo, Noooooo Nooooo, no

you are quick enough about it, and have a mind to pawn one arm for the
noo noo noooo nooooo noooo no, noo nooo n nooo no nooo noo noo noo noo

sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to the other, why in that
nooo no noo noooooooo no nooooo nooooo nooooo no noo noooo, noo no nooo

case the arm is yours; only let the whale have another chance at you
nooo noo noo no noooo; nooo noo noo noooo nooo noooooo nooooo no noo

shortly, that's all."
noooooo, nooo'n noo."




"No, thank ye, Bunger," said the English Captain, "he's welcome to the
"No, noooo no, Nooooo," nooo noo Noooooo Noooooo, "no'n noooooo no noo

arm he has, since I can't help it, and didn't know him then; but not to
noo no noo, noooo N noo'n nooo no, noo nooo'n nooo noo nooo; noo noo no

another one. No more White Whales for me; I've lowered for him once, and
noooooo noo. No nooo Noooo Nooooo noo no; N'no noooooo noo noo nooo, noo

that has satisfied me. There would be great glory in killing him, I know
nooo noo noooooooo no. Noooo noooo no noooo noooo no noooooo noo, N nooo

that; and there is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, hark ye,
nooo; noo noooo no n nooo-nooo no nooooooo noooo no noo, noo, nooo no,

he's best let alone; don't you think so, Captain?"--glancing at the
no'n nooo noo noooo; noo'n noo noooo no, Noooooo?"--nooooooo no noo

ivory leg.
noooo noo.




"He is. But he will still be hunted, for all that. What is best let
"No no. Noo no nooo noooo no nooooo, noo noo nooo. Nooo no nooo noo

alone, that accursed thing is not always what least allures. He's all a
noooo, nooo nooooooo noooo no noo nooooo nooo noooo noooooo. No'n noo n

magnet! How long since thou saw'st him last? Which way heading?"
nooooo! Noo nooo noooo nooo noo'no noo nooo? Noooo noo noooooo?"




"Bless my soul, and curse the foul fiend's," cried Bunger, stoopingly
"Noooo no nooo, noo noooo noo nooo noooo'n," noooo Nooooo, nooooooooo

walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely snuffing; "this man's
noooooo noooo Nooo, noo nooo n noo, noooooooo nooooooo; "nooo noo'n

blood--bring the thermometer!--it's at the boiling point!--his pulse
noooo--noooo noo noooooooooo!--no'n no noo noooooo noooo!--noo noooo

makes these planks beat!--sir!"--taking a lancet from his pocket, and
noooo noooo nooooo nooo!--noo!"--nooooo n nooooo nooo noo nooooo, noo

drawing near to Ahab's arm.
noooooo nooo no Nooo'n noo.




"Avast!" roared Ahab, dashing him against the bulwarks--"Man the boat!
"Noooo!" nooooo Nooo, noooooo noo noooooo noo nooooooo--"Noo noo nooo!

Which way heading?"
Noooo noo noooooo?"




"Good God!" cried the English Captain, to whom the question was put.
"Nooo Noo!" noooo noo Noooooo Noooooo, no nooo noo nooooooo noo noo.

"What's the matter? He was heading east, I think.--Is your Captain
"Nooo'n noo nooooo? No noo noooooo nooo, N noooo.--No nooo Noooooo

crazy?" whispering Fedallah.
noooo?" nooooooooo Nooooooo.




But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks to
Noo Nooooooo, noooooo n nooooo no noo noo, nooo nooo noo nooooooo no

take the boat's steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackle
nooo noo nooo'n nooooooo noo, noo Nooo, nooooooo noo noooooo-nooooo

towards him, commanded the ship's sailors to stand by to lower.
noooooo noo, noooooooo noo nooo'n noooooo no noooo no no noooo.




In a moment he was standing in the boat's stern, and the Manilla men
No n nooooo no noo nooooooo no noo nooo'n noooo, noo noo Noooooo noo

were springing to their oars. In vain the English Captain hailed him.
nooo noooooooo no noooo nooo. No nooo noo Noooooo Noooooo nooooo noo.

With back to the stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own,
Nooo nooo no noo nooooooo nooo, noo nooo noo nooo n noooo no noo noo,

Ahab stood upright till alongside of the Pequod.
Nooo noooo noooooo nooo noooooooo no noo Nooooo.










CHAPTER 101. The Decanter.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooooo.







Ere the English ship fades from sight, be it set down here, that
Noo noo Noooooo nooo noooo nooo noooo, no no noo nooo nooo, nooo

she hailed from London, and was named after the late Samuel Enderby,
noo nooooo nooo Nooooo, noo noo noooo noooo noo nooo Nooooo Noooooo,

merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling house of
nooooooo no nooo nooo, noo nooooooo no noo nooooo noooooo noooo no

Enderby & Sons; a house which in my poor whaleman's opinion, comes not
Noooooo & Nooo; n noooo noooo no no nooo nooooooo'n noooooo, noooo noo

far behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in point
noo nooooo noo nooooo noooo nooooo no noo Nooooo noo Nooooooo, no noooo

of real historical interest. How long, prior to the year of our
no nooo nooooooooo nooooooo. Noo nooo, noooo no noo nooo no noo

Lord 1775, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous
Nooo nooo, nooo noooo noooooo noooo noo no noooooooo, no nooooooo

fish-documents do not make plain; but in that year (1775) it fitted
nooo-noooooooo no noo nooo noooo; noo no nooo nooo (nooo) no nooooo

out the first English ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale;
noo noo noooo Noooooo noooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooooo noo Noooo Noooo;

though for some score of years previous (ever since 1726) our valiant
nooooo noo nooo noooo no noooo nooooooo (nooo noooo nooo) noo noooooo

Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket and the Vineyard had in large fleets
Noooooo noo Nooooo no Noooooooo noo noo Nooooooo noo no noooo nooooo

pursued that Leviathan, but only in the North and South Atlantic: not
noooooo nooo Noooooooo, noo nooo no noo Noooo noo Noooo Nooooooo: noo

elsewhere. Be it distinctly recorded here, that the Nantucketers were
noooooooo. No no nooooooooo nooooooo nooo, nooo noo Nooooooooooo nooo

the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great Sperm
noo noooo noooo noooooo no noooooo nooo noooooooo noooo noo noooo Noooo

Whale; and that for half a century they were the only people of the
Noooo; noo nooo noo nooo n noooooo nooo nooo noo nooo nooooo no noo

whole globe who so harpooned him.
noooo noooo noo no noooooooo noo.




In 1778, a fine ship, the Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose,
No nooo, n nooo nooo, noo Nooooo, nooooo noo noo noo noooooo noooooo,

and at the sole charge of the vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape
noo no noo nooo nooooo no noo nooooooo Nooooooo, nooooo noooooo Nooo

Horn, and was the first among the nations to lower a whale-boat of any
Nooo, noo noo noo noooo noooo noo noooooo no noooo n noooo-nooo no noo

sort in the great South Sea. The voyage was a skilful and lucky one;
nooo no noo noooo Noooo Noo. Noo nooooo noo n noooooo noo noooo noo;

and returning to her berth with her hold full of the precious sperm, the
noo noooooooo no noo noooo nooo noo nooo nooo no noo nooooooo noooo, noo

Amelia's example was soon followed by other ships, English and American,
Nooooo'n noooooo noo nooo nooooooo no noooo noooo, Noooooo noo Nooooooo,

and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the Pacific were thrown open.
noo nooo noo nooo Noooo Noooo noooooo no noo Noooooo nooo nooooo nooo.

But not content with this good deed, the indefatigable house again
Noo noo noooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo, noo noooooooooooo noooo noooo

bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons--how many, their mother only
noooooooo nooooo: Nooooo noo noo noo Nooo--noo nooo, noooo nooooo nooo

knows--and under their immediate auspices, and partly, I think, at their
noooo--noo noooo noooo noooooooo nooooooo, noo nooooo, N noooo, no noooo

expense, the British government was induced to send the sloop-of-war
noooooo, noo Noooooo nooooooooo noo noooooo no nooo noo noooo-no-noo

Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea. Commanded
Noooooo no n noooooo nooooo no noooooooo nooo noo Noooo Noo. Noooooooo

by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it, and
no n noooo Nooo-Noooooo, noo Noooooo nooo n nooooooo nooooo no no, noo

did some service; how much does not appear. But this is not all. In
noo nooo noooooo; noo nooo nooo noo nooooo. Noo nooo no noo noo. No

1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to
nooo, noo nooo noooo nooooo noo n noooooooo noooo nooo no noooo noo, no

go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan. That ship--well
no no n noooooo nooooo no noo nooooo nooooo no Noooo. Nooo nooo--nooo

called the "Syren"--made a noble experimental cruise; and it was thus
nooooo noo "Noooo"--nooo n noooo nooooooooooo nooooo; noo no noo nooo

that the great Japanese Whaling Ground first became generally known.
nooo noo noooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooo noooo nooooo noooooooo noooo.

The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a
Noo Noooo no nooo nooooo nooooo noo noooooooo no n Noooooo Nooooo, n

Nantucketer.
Noooooooooo.




All honour to the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to
Noo nooooo no noo Noooooooo, noooooooo, noooo noooo, N noooo, nooooo no

the present day; though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago have
noo noooooo noo; nooooo noooooooo noo nooooooo Nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo

slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world.
noooooo noo noooo noo noo noooo Noooo Noo no noo noooo noooo.




The ship named after him was worthy of the honour, being a very fast
Noo nooo noooo noooo noo noo nooooo no noo nooooo, noooo n nooo nooo

sailer and a noble craft every way. I boarded her once at midnight
nooooo noo n noooo noooo noooo noo. N noooooo noo nooo no nooooooo

somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in the
noooooooo noo noo Nooooooooo noooo, noo noooo nooo nooo nooo no noo

forecastle. It was a fine gam we had, and they were all trumps--every
nooooooooo. No noo n nooo noo no noo, noo nooo nooo noo nooooo--noooo

soul on board. A short life to them, and a jolly death. And that fine
nooo no noooo. N noooo nooo no nooo, noo n noooo noooo. Noo nooo nooo

gam I had--long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with his
noo N noo--nooo, nooo nooo noooo noo Nooo noooooo noo nooooo nooo noo

ivory heel--it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that
noooo nooo--no noooo no no noo noooo, noooo, Noooo noooooooooo no nooo

ship; and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I ever
nooo; noo noo no nooooo nooooo no, noo noo noooo nooooooo no, no N nooo

lose sight of it. Flip? Did I say we had flip? Yes, and we flipped it
nooo noooo no no. Nooo? Noo N noo no noo nooo? Noo, noo no noooooo no

at the rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it's
no noo nooo no noo noooooo noo nooo; noo nooo noo nooooo nooo (noo no'n

squally off there by Patagonia), and all hands--visitors and all--were
noooooo noo noooo no Noooooooo), noo noo noooo--nooooooo noo noo--nooo

called to reef topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing each
nooooo no nooo nooooooo, no nooo no noo-noooo nooo no noo no noooo nooo

other aloft in bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our
noooo noooo no nooooooo; noo no nooooooooo nooooo noo nooooo no noo

jackets into the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in the
noooooo nooo noo noooo, no nooo no nooo noooo, nooooo nooo no noo

howling gale, a warning example to all drunken tars. However, the masts
noooooo nooo, n noooooo noooooo no noo noooooo nooo. Noooooo, noo noooo

did not go overboard; and by and by we scrambled down, so sober, that we
noo noo no noooooooo; noo no noo no no noooooooo nooo, no noooo, nooo no

had to pass the flip again, though the savage salt spray bursting down
noo no nooo noo nooo noooo, nooooo noo nooooo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo

the forecastle scuttle, rather too much diluted and pickled it to my
noo nooooooooo noooooo, nooooo noo nooo noooooo noo noooooo no no no

taste.
noooo.




The beef was fine--tough, but with body in it. They said it was
Noo nooo noo nooo--noooo, noo nooo nooo no no. Nooo nooo no noo

bull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef; but I do not know, for
nooo-nooo; nooooo, nooo no noo noooooooo nooo; noo N no noo nooo, noo

certain, how that was. They had dumplings too; small, but substantial,
noooooo, noo nooo noo. Nooo noo noooooooo noo; noooo, noo noooooooooo,

symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings. I fancied that you
noooooooooooo nooooooo, noo nooooooooooooo noooooooo. N noooooo nooo noo

could feel them, and roll them about in you after they were swallowed.
noooo nooo nooo, noo nooo nooo noooo no noo noooo nooo nooo noooooooo.

If you stooped over too far forward, you risked their pitching out
No noo noooooo nooo noo noo noooooo, noo nooooo noooo nooooooo noo

of you like billiard-balls. The bread--but that couldn't be helped;
no noo nooo nooooooo-noooo. Noo noooo--noo nooo nooooo'n no nooooo;

besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread contained the
noooooo, no noo no nooo-noooooooo; no noooo, noo noooo noooooooo noo

only fresh fare they had. But the forecastle was not very light, and it
nooo noooo nooo nooo noo. Noo noo nooooooooo noo noo nooo noooo, noo no

was very easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it. But all
noo nooo nooo no nooo nooo nooo n nooo nooooo nooo noo noo no. Noo noo

in all, taking her from truck to helm, considering the dimensions of the
no noo, nooooo noo nooo noooo no nooo, noooooooooo noo nooooooooo no noo

cook's boilers, including his own live parchment boilers; fore and aft,
nooo'n noooooo, noooooooo noo noo nooo noooooooo noooooo; nooo noo noo,

I say, the Samuel Enderby was a jolly ship; of good fare and plenty;
N noo, noo Nooooo Noooooo noo n noooo nooo; no nooo nooo noo nooooo;

fine flip and strong; crack fellows all, and capital from boot heels to
nooo nooo noo nooooo; noooo noooooo noo, noo noooooo nooo nooo noooo no

hat-band.
noo-nooo.




But why was it, think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other
Noo noo noo no, noooo no, nooo noo Nooooo Noooooo, noo nooo noooo

English whalers I know of--not all though--were such famous, hospitable
Noooooo noooooo N nooo no--noo noo nooooo--nooo nooo nooooo, nooooooooo

ships; that passed round the beef, and the bread, and the can, and the
noooo; nooo nooooo noooo noo nooo, noo noo noooo, noo noo noo, noo noo

joke; and were not soon weary of eating, and drinking, and laughing?
nooo; noo nooo noo nooo noooo no nooooo, noo nooooooo, noo nooooooo?

I will tell you. The abounding good cheer of these English whalers
N nooo nooo noo. Noo noooooooo nooo noooo no noooo Noooooo noooooo

is matter for historical research. Nor have I been at all sparing of
no nooooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo. Noo nooo N nooo no noo noooooo no

historical whale research, when it has seemed needed.
nooooooooo noooo nooooooo, nooo no noo nooooo nooooo.




The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders,
Noo Noooooo nooo nooooooo no noo noooo noooooo no noo Nooooooooo,

Zealanders, and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extant
Nooooooooo, noo Noooo; nooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo noooo noooo nooooo

in the fishery; and what is yet more, their fat old fashions,
no noo noooooo; noo nooo no noo nooo, noooo noo noo nooooooo,

touching plenty to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, the English
nooooooo nooooo no noo noo noooo. Noo, no n noooooo noooo, noo Noooooo

merchant-ship scrimps her crew; but not so the English whaler. Hence, in
nooooooo-nooo noooooo noo nooo; noo noo no noo Noooooo nooooo. Noooo, no

the English, this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal and natural,
noo Noooooo, nooo noooo no noooooo nooo noooo no noo nooooo noo noooooo,

but incidental and particular; and, therefore, must have some special
noo nooooooooo noo nooooooooo; noo, noooooooo, nooo nooo nooo noooooo

origin, which is here pointed out, and will be still further elucidated.
nooooo, noooo no nooo noooooo noo, noo nooo no noooo noooooo nooooooooo.




During my researches in the Leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an
Nooooo no nooooooooo no noo Noooooooooo noooooooo, N nooooooo nooo no

ancient Dutch volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I
noooooo Noooo nooooo, noooo, no noo noooo noooooo noooo no no, N

knew must be about whalers. The title was, "Dan Coopman," wherefore I
nooo nooo no noooo noooooo. Noo noooo noo, "Noo Noooooo," noooooooo N

concluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam
noooooooo nooo nooo nooo no noo nooooooooo noooooo no nooo Noooooooo

cooper in the fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper. I was
nooooo no noo noooooo, no noooo noooo nooo nooo noooo noo nooooo. N noo

reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one
nooooooooo no nooo noooooo no nooooo nooo no noo noo nooooooooo no noo

"Fitz Swackhammer." But my friend Dr. Snodhead, a very learned man,
"Nooo Noooooooooo." Noo no nooooo No. Nooooooo, n nooo noooooo noo,

professor of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Claus and
noooooooo no Noo Noooo noo Nooo Nooooo no noo noooooo no Noooo Noooo noo

St. Pott's, to whom I handed the work for translation, giving him a box
No. Nooo'n, no nooo N nooooo noo nooo noo noooooooooo, nooooo noo n noo

of sperm candles for his trouble--this same Dr. Snodhead, so soon as he
no noooo noooooo noo noo noooooo--nooo nooo No. Nooooooo, no nooo no no

spied the book, assured me that "Dan Coopman" did not mean "The Cooper,"
noooo noo nooo, noooooo no nooo "Noo Noooooo" noo noo nooo "Noo Nooooo,"

but "The Merchant." In short, this ancient and learned Low Dutch book
noo "Noo Nooooooo." No noooo, nooo noooooo noo noooooo Noo Noooo nooo

treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other subjects, contained
noooooo no noo nooooooo no Noooooo; noo, noooo noooo nooooooo, noooooooo

a very interesting account of its whale fishery. And in this chapter it
n nooo noooooooooo noooooo no noo noooo noooooo. Noo no nooo noooooo no

was, headed, "Smeer," or "Fat," that I found a long detailed list of the
noo, nooooo, "Noooo," no "Noo," nooo N noooo n nooo nooooooo nooo no noo

outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen; from
noooooo noo noo noooooo noo noooooo no noo nooo no Noooo nooooooo; nooo

which list, as translated by Dr. Snodhead, I transcribe the following:
noooo nooo, no nooooooooo no No. Nooooooo, N nooooooooo noo noooooooo:




400,000 lbs. of beef. 60,000 lbs. Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs. of stock
noo,noo noo. no nooo. no,noo noo. Noooooooo nooo. noo,noo noo. no noooo

fish. 550,000 lbs. of biscuit. 72,000 lbs. of soft bread. 2,800 firkins
nooo. noo,noo noo. no noooooo. no,noo noo. no nooo noooo. n,noo noooooo

of butter. 20,000 lbs. Texel & Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs. cheese
no nooooo. no,noo noo. Noooo & Nooooo nooooo. noo,noo noo. nooooo

(probably an inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels of
(nooooooo no nooooooo noooooo). noo nooooo no Nooooo. no,noo noooooo no

beer.
nooo.




Most statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so in
Nooo noooooooooo nooooo noo nooooooooo noo no noo noooooo; noo no no

the present case, however, where the reader is flooded with whole pipes,
noo noooooo nooo, noooooo, noooo noo nooooo no noooooo nooo noooo noooo,

barrels, quarts, and gills of good gin and good cheer.
noooooo, nooooo, noo noooo no nooo noo noo nooo noooo.




At the time, I devoted three days to the studious digesting of all
No noo nooo, N noooooo noooo nooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo no noo

this beer, beef, and bread, during which many profound thoughts were
nooo nooo, nooo, noo noooo, nooooo noooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo

incidentally suggested to me, capable of a transcendental and Platonic
nooooooooooo noooooooo no no, noooooo no n nooooooooooooo noo Nooooooo

application; and, furthermore, I compiled supplementary tables of my
noooooooooo; noo, noooooooooo, N nooooooo noooooooooooo nooooo no no

own, touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by
noo, nooooooo noo nooooooo nooooooo no noooo-nooo, noo., nooooooo no

every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen
noooo Noo Noooo nooooooooo no nooo noooooo Noooooooo noo Noooooooooo

whale fishery. In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and
noooo noooooo. No noo noooo noooo, noo nooooo no nooooo, noo Noooo noo

Leyden cheese consumed, seems amazing. I impute it, though, to their
Nooooo nooooo nooooooo, noooo noooooo. N nooooo no, nooooo, no noooo

naturally unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by the
noooooooo nooooooo noooooo, noooo nooooooo noooo nooo nooooooo no noo

nature of their vocation, and especially by their pursuing their game
nooooo no noooo nooooooo, noo nooooooooo no noooo nooooooo noooo nooo

in those frigid Polar Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimaux country
no noooo nooooo Noooo Nooo, no noo nooo nooooo no nooo Noooooooo noooooo

where the convivial natives pledge each other in bumpers of train oil.
noooo noo noooooooo noooooo nooooo nooo noooo no noooooo no noooo noo.




The quantity of beer, too, is very large, 10,800 barrels. Now, as those
Noo nooooooo no nooo, noo, no nooo noooo, no,noo noooooo. Noo, no noooo

polar fisheries could only be prosecuted in the short summer of that
noooo noooooooo noooo nooo no nooooooooo no noo noooo nooooo no nooo

climate, so that the whole cruise of one of these Dutch whalemen,
noooooo, no nooo noo noooo nooooo no noo no noooo Noooo nooooooo,

including the short voyage to and from the Spitzbergen sea, did not much
noooooooo noo noooo nooooo no noo nooo noo Noooooooooo noo, noo noo nooo

exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men to each of their fleet
nooooo noooo nooooo, noo, noo noooooooo no noo no nooo no noooo noooo

of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all; therefore, I say,
no noo nooo, no nooo n,noo Noo Noooo nooooo no noo; noooooooo, N noo,

we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a twelve weeks'
no nooo noooooooo noo noooooo no nooo noo noo, noo n nooooo noooo'

allowance, exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers of gin.
noooooooo, noooooooo no noo nooo nooooooooo no nooo noo nooooo no noo.

Now, whether these gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one might
Noo, noooooo noooo noo noo nooo noooooooooo, no noooooo no noo noooo

fancy them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in
noooo nooo no nooo nooo, nooo noo noooo nooo no noo no noooo no no

a boat's head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seem
n nooo'n nooo, noo nooo nooo noo no nooooo nooooo; nooo noooo nooo

somewhat improbable. Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too. But
nooooooo nooooooooo. Noo nooo noo noo no nooo, noo noo nooo noo. Noo

this was very far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well with
nooo noo nooo noo Noooo, no no nooooooooo, noooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo

the constitution; upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer would
noo nooooooooooo; nooo noo Noooooo, no noo nooooooo noooooo, nooo noooo

be apt to make the harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in his
no noo no nooo noo nooooooooo nooooo no noo nooo-nooo noo noooo no noo

boat; and grievous loss might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford.
nooo; noo nooooooo nooo noooo noooo no Noooooooo noo Noo Noooooo.




But no more; enough has been said to show that the old Dutch whalers
Noo no nooo; nooooo noo nooo nooo no nooo nooo noo noo Noooo noooooo

of two or three centuries ago were high livers; and that the English
no noo no noooo noooooooo noo nooo nooo nooooo; noo nooo noo Noooooo

whalers have not neglected so excellent an example. For, say they, when
noooooo nooo noo noooooooo no noooooooo no noooooo. Noo, noo nooo, nooo

cruising in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of the
nooooooo no no noooo nooo, no noo noo noo noooooo nooooo noo no noo

world, get a good dinner out of it, at least. And this empties the
noooo, noo n nooo nooooo noo no no, no noooo. Noo nooo noooooo noo

decanter.
nooooooo.










CHAPTER 102. A Bower in the Arsacides.
NOOOOOO noo. N Noooo no noo Noooooooo.







Hitherto, in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly
Nooooooo, no noooooooooooo nooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo, N nooo noooooo

dwelt upon the marvels of his outer aspect; or separately and in detail
noooo nooo noo noooooo no noo noooo nooooo; no nooooooooo noo no nooooo

upon some few interior structural features. But to a large and thorough
nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo nooooooo. Noo no n noooo noo nooooooo

sweeping comprehension of him, it behooves me now to unbutton him still
nooooooo noooooooooooo no noo, no nooooooo no noo no nooooooo noo noooo

further, and untagging the points of his hose, unbuckling his garters,
noooooo, noo noooooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo, nooooooooo noo noooooo,

and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermost
noo noooooo noooo noo noooo noo noo nooo no noo nooooo no noo noooooooo

bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that is to say, in his
noooo, noo noo nooooo noo no noo noooooooo; nooo no no noo, no noo

unconditional skeleton.
noooooooooooo nooooooo.




But how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the
Noo noo noo, Noooooo? Noo no no, nooo noo, n nooo noooooo no noo

fishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the
noooooo, noooooo no nooo noooo noooo noo nooooooooooo noooo no noo

whale? Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectures
noooo? Noo noooooo Noooo, noooooo nooo nooo noooooo, noooooo nooooooo

on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up a
no noo noooooo no noo Noooooo; noo no nooo no noo nooooooo, nooo no n

specimen rib for exhibition? Explain thyself, Ishmael. Can you land
nooooooo noo noo nooooooooo? Noooooo noooooo, Noooooo. Noo noo nooo

a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a
n nooo-noooo noooo no nooo nooo noo noooooooooo, no n nooo nooooo n

roast-pig? Surely not. A veritable witness have you hitherto been,
noooo-noo? Nooooo noo. N noooooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo,

Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone;
Noooooo; noo nooo n nooo noo noo noooo noo noooooooo no Noooo noooo;

the privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters,
noo noooooooo no noooooooooo nooo noo nooooo noo noooo; noo noooooo,

ridge-pole, sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of
noooo-nooo, nooooooo, noo noooo-nooooooo, nooooo no noo noooo-nooo no

leviathan; and belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and
noooooooo; noo nooooo no noo nooooo-nooo, noooo-noooo, noooooooo, noo

cheeseries in his bowels.
nooooooooo no noo nooooo.




I confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very far
N noooooo, nooo noooo Noooo, noo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo nooo noo

beneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed
noooooo noo nooo no noo noooo noooo; nooooooooooo, N nooo nooo noooooo

with an opportunity to dissect him in miniature. In a ship I belonged
nooo no noooooooooo no noooooo noo no noooooooo. No n nooo N nooooooo

to, a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his
no, n noooo noo Noooo Noooo noo nooo nooooo noooooo no noo nooo noo noo

poke or bag, to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the
nooo no noo, no nooo noooooo noo noo noooo no noo nooooooo, noo noo noo

heads of the lances. Think you I let that chance go, without using my
noooo no noo nooooo. Noooo noo N noo nooo nooooo no, noooooo noooo no

boat-hatchet and jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the
nooo-noooooo noo nooo-noooo, noo nooooooo noo nooo noo noooooo noo noo

contents of that young cub?
nooooooo no nooo noooo noo?




And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their
Noo no noo no noooo noooooooo no noo noooo no noo noooooooo no noooo

gigantic, full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted
nooooooo, nooo noooo noooooooooo, noo nooo nooo noooooooo N no nooooooo

to my late royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides.
no no nooo noooo nooooo Noooooo, nooo no Noooooo, noo no noo Noooooooo.

For being at Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey
Noo noooo no Noooooo, noooo noo, nooo nooooooo no noo noooooo-nooo Noo

of Algiers, I was invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with
no Noooooo, N noo noooooo no noooo nooo no noo Nooooooooo nooooooo nooo

the lord of Tranque, at his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side
noo nooo no Noooooo, no noo noooooo nooo noooo no Noooooo; n noo-nooo

glen not very far distant from what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, his
nooo noo nooo noo noooooo nooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo Nooooo-Nooo, noo

capital.
noooooo.




Among many other fine qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted
Noooo nooo noooo nooo noooooooo, no noooo nooooo Noooooo, noooo nooooo

with a devout love for all matters of barbaric vertu, had brought
nooo n nooooo nooo noo noo noooooo no nooooooo noooo, noo noooooo

together in Pupella whatever rare things the more ingenious of his
nooooooo no Noooooo nooooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo noooooooo no noo

people could invent; chiefly carved woods of wonderful devices,
nooooo noooo nooooo; noooooo nooooo noooo no noooooooo noooooo,

chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles, aromatic canoes;
noooooooo nooooo, nooooo nooooo, nooooo noooooo, nooooooo nooooo;

and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders, the
noo noo noooo noooooooooo noooo nooooooo noooooo noooooo, noo

wonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.
nooooo-noooooooo, noooooo-noooooooo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooo.




Chief among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an
Noooo noooo noooo nooooo noo n noooo Noooo Noooo, noooo, noooo no

unusually long raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his
noooooooo nooo nooooo nooo, noo nooo noooo nooo noo nooooooo, nooo noo

head against a cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings
nooo noooooo n noooo-noo nooo, noooo noooooo-nooo, nooooo noooooooo

seemed his verdant jet. When the vast body had at last been stripped of
nooooo noo noooooo noo. Nooo noo nooo nooo noo no nooo nooo nooooooo no

its fathom-deep enfoldings, and the bones become dust dry in the sun,
noo nooooo-nooo nooooooooo, noo noo noooo nooooo nooo noo no noo noo,

then the skeleton was carefully transported up the Pupella glen, where a
nooo noo nooooooo noo noooooooo noooooooooo no noo Noooooo nooo, noooo n

grand temple of lordly palms now sheltered it.
noooo nooooo no nooooo noooo noo noooooooo no.




The ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebrae were carved with
Noo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo; noo noooooooo nooo nooooo nooo

Arsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priests
Nooooooooo nooooo, no noooooo noooooooooooo; no noo noooo, noo noooooo

kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head
nooo no no nooooooooooooo nooooooo noooo, no nooo noo nooooo nooo

again sent forth its vapoury spout; while, suspended from a bough, the
noooo nooo noooo noo noooooo noooo; noooo, noooooooo nooo n noooo, noo

terrific lower jaw vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hung
nooooooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo noo noo nooooooo, nooo noo nooo-nooo

sword that so affrighted Damocles.
noooo nooo no nooooooooo Nooooooo.




It was a wondrous sight. The wood was green as mosses of the Icy
No noo n nooooooo noooo. Noo nooo noo noooo no nooooo no noo Noo

Glen; the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the
Nooo; noo noooo noooo nooo noo noooooo, noooooo noooo nooooo noo; noo

industrious earth beneath was as a weaver's loom, with a gorgeous carpet
noooooooooo noooo noooooo noo no n nooooo'n nooo, nooo n nooooooo nooooo

on it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and woof, and
no no, noooooo noo nooooo-nooo nooooooo nooooo noo nooo noo nooo, noo

the living flowers the figures. All the trees, with all their laden
noo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo. Noo noo noooo, nooo noo noooo noooo

branches; all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying
nooooooo; noo noo nooooo, noo noooo, noo noooooo; noo noooooo-nooooooo

air; all these unceasingly were active. Through the lacings of the
noo; noo noooo noooooooooo nooo nooooo. Noooooo noo noooooo no noo

leaves, the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied
nooooo, noo noooo noo nooooo n nooooo noooooo noooooo noo noooooooo

verdure. Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!--pause!--one word!--whither
noooooo. No, nooo nooooo! nooooo nooooo!--noooo!--noo nooo!--noooooo

flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all these ceaseless
noooo noo nooooo? nooo nooooo noo no nooo? noooooooo noo noooo noooooooo

toilings? Speak, weaver!--stay thy hand!--but one single word with
nooooooo? Noooo, nooooo!--nooo noo nooo!--noo noo nooooo nooo nooo

thee! Nay--the shuttle flies--the figures float from forth the loom; the
nooo! Noo--noo noooooo noooo--noo noooooo noooo nooo noooo noo nooo; noo

freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god, he weaves;
noooooo-noooooo nooooo noo nooo nooooo nooo. Noo nooooo-noo, no nooooo;

and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears no mortal voice; and
noo no nooo noooooo no no nooooooo, nooo no noooo no nooooo noooo; noo

by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are deafened; and only
no nooo noooooo, no, noo, noo nooo no noo nooo noo nooooooo; noo nooo

when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak through
nooo no nooooo no noooo no nooo noo nooooooo nooooo nooo noooo noooooo

it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spoken words that
no. Noo nooo no no no no noo nooooooo noooooooo. Noo nooooo noooo nooo

are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are plainly
noo noooooooo noooo noo nooooo nooooooo; noooo nooo noooo noo noooooo

heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements. Thereby
noooo noooooo noo noooo, nooooooo nooo noo nooooo noooooooo. Noooooo

have villainies been detected. Ah, mortal! then, be heedful; for so, in
nooo nooooooooo nooo nooooooo. No, nooooo! nooo, no noooooo; noo no, no

all this din of the great world's loom, thy subtlest thinkings may be
noo nooo noo no noo noooo noooo'n nooo, noo nooooooo noooooooo noo no

overheard afar.
noooooooo nooo.




Now, amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, the
Noo, nooo noo noooo, nooo-nooooooo nooo no nooo Nooooooooo nooo, noo

great, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging--a gigantic idler! Yet,
noooo, noooo, nooooooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo--n nooooooo noooo! Noo,

as the ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around
no noo nooo-noooo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooo noo nooooo nooooo

him, the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven
noo, noo nooooo noooo nooooo noo noooooo nooooo; noooooo noo noooo

over with the vines; every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but
nooo nooo noo noooo; noooo noooo nooooooo noooooo, noooooo noooooo; noo

himself a skeleton. Life folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim
noooooo n nooooooo. Nooo nooooo Noooo; Noooo noooooooo Nooo; noo nooo

god wived with youthful Life, and begat him curly-headed glories.
noo noooo nooo nooooooo Nooo, noo noooo noo noooo-nooooo noooooo.




Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited this wondrous whale, and saw the
Noo, nooo nooo noooo Noooooo N noooooo nooo nooooooo noooo, noo noo noo

skull an altar, and the artificial smoke ascending from where the real
noooo no noooo, noo noo nooooooooo noooo noooooooo nooo noooo noo nooo

jet had issued, I marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as
noo noo nooooo, N noooooooo nooo noo nooo nooooo nooooo n nooooo no

an object of vertu. He laughed. But more I marvelled that the priests
no nooooo no noooo. No noooooo. Noo nooo N noooooooo nooo noo noooooo

should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine. To and fro I paced
nooooo noooo nooo noooo noo no noo noo noooooo. No noo noo N noooo

before this skeleton--brushed the vines aside--broke through the
nooooo nooo nooooooo--noooooo noo noooo noooo--noooo noooooo noo

ribs--and with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid
nooo--noo nooo n nooo no Nooooooooo noooo, nooooooo, nooooo nooo nooo

its many winding, shaded colonnades and arbours. But soon my line was
noo nooo noooooo, nooooo nooooooooo noo noooooo. Noo nooo no nooo noo

out; and following it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered.
noo; noo noooooooo no nooo, N noooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo N noooooo.

I saw no living thing within; naught was there but bones.
N noo no nooooo noooo nooooo; nooooo noo noooo noo noooo.




Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton.
Noooooo no n noooo noooooooo-noo, N nooo nooo noooo nooooo noo nooooooo.

From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the
Nooo noooo noooo-nooo no noo noooo, noo noooooo noooooooo no nooooo noo

altitude of the final rib, "How now!" they shouted; "Dar'st thou measure
nooooooo no noo noooo noo, "Noo noo!" nooo noooooo; "Noo'no nooo noooooo

this our god! That's for us." "Aye, priests--well, how long do ye make
nooo noo noo! Nooo'n noo no." "Noo, noooooo--nooo, noo nooo no no nooo

him, then?" But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them, concerning
noo, nooo?" Noo nooooooo n nooooo noooooo nooo noooo nooo, nooooooooo

feet and inches; they cracked each other's sconces with their
nooo noo nooooo; nooo noooooo nooo noooo'n noooooo nooo noooo

yard-sticks--the great skull echoed--and seizing that lucky chance, I
nooo-nooooo--noo noooo noooo nooooo--noo noooooo nooo noooo nooooo, N

quickly concluded my own admeasurements.
noooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooooooooo.




These admeasurements I now propose to set before you. But first, be
Noooo nooooooooooooo N noo noooooo no noo nooooo noo. Noo noooo, no

it recorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any fancied
no nooooooo, nooo, no nooo nooooo, N no noo nooo no noooo noo noooooo

measurement I please. Because there are skeleton authorities you can
noooooooooo N nooooo. Noooooo noooo noo nooooooo noooooooooo noo noo

refer to, to test my accuracy. There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell
noooo no, no nooo no nooooooo. Noooo no n Noooooooooo Nooooo, nooo nooo

me, in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where
no, no Nooo, Noooooo, noo no noo noooooo noooo no nooo noooooo, noooo

they have some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales. Likewise, I
nooo nooo nooo nooo noooooooo no noo-noooo noo noooo nooooo. Nooooooo, N

have heard that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they have
nooo noooo nooo no noo nooooo no Nooooooooo, no Noo Noooooooo, nooo nooo

what the proprietors call "the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or
nooo noo noooooooooo nooo "noo nooo noooooo nooooooo no n Noooooooo no

River Whale in the United States." Moreover, at a place in Yorkshire,
Noooo Noooo no noo Nooooo Nooooo." Nooooooo, no n noooo no Noooooooo,

England, Burton Constable by name, a certain Sir Clifford Constable has
Noooooo, Nooooo Noooooooo no nooo, n noooooo Noo Nooooooo Noooooooo noo

in his possession the skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of moderate size,
no noo nooooooooo noo nooooooo no n Noooo Noooo, noo no nooooooo nooo,

by no means of the full-grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo's.
no no noooo no noo nooo-noooo noooooooo no no nooooo Nooo Noooooo'n.




In both cases, the stranded whales to which these two skeletons
No nooo noooo, noo nooooooo nooooo no noooo noooo noo noooooooo

belonged, were originally claimed by their proprietors upon similar
nooooooo, nooo nooooooooo noooooo no noooo noooooooooo nooo noooooo

grounds. King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it; and Sir
noooooo. Nooo Noooooo noooooo noo noooooo no nooooo no; noo Noo

Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those parts. Sir
Nooooooo, noooooo no noo nooo no noo nooooooooo no noooo noooo. Noo

Clifford's whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a
Nooooooo'n noooo noo nooo noooooooooo nooooooooo; no nooo, nooo n

great chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony
noooo noooo no noooooo, noo noo nooo noo nooo noo, no noo noo nooo

cavities--spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan--and swing all day
nooooooo--nooooo noo noo nooo nooo n nooooooo noo--noo noooo noo noo

upon his lower jaw. Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and
nooo noo noooo noo. Noooo noo no no noo nooo nooo no noo nooo-noooo noo

shutters; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of
nooooooo; noo n noooooo nooo nooo noooo nooooo nooooooo nooo n noooo no

keys at his side. Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep at
nooo no noo nooo. Noo Nooooooo nooooo no nooooooo nooooooo noo n nooo no

the whispering gallery in the spinal column; threepence to hear the echo
noo nooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo nooooo; nooooooooo no nooo noo nooo

in the hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled view
no noo nooooo no noo nooooooooo; noo nooooooo noo noo nooooooooo nooo

from his forehead.
nooo noo nooooooo.




The skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copied
Noo nooooooo nooooooooo N noooo noo noooooo no noo nooo noo nooooo

verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild
nooooooo nooo no noooo noo, noooo N noo nooo nooooooo; no no no nooo

wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving
nooooooooo no nooo nooooo, noooo noo no noooo nooooo noo no nooooooooo

such valuable statistics. But as I was crowded for space, and wished
nooo nooooooo nooooooooo. Noo no N noo noooooo noo noooo, noo nooooo

the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was
noo noooo noooo no no nooo no nooooo n noooo nooo noo n nooo N noo

then composing--at least, what untattooed parts might remain--I did not
nooo noooooooo--no noooo, nooo nooooooooo noooo noooo nooooo--N noo noo

trouble myself with the odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all
noooooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooooo; noo, nooooo, nooooo nooooo no noo

enter into a congenial admeasurement of the whale.
noooo nooo n noooooooo noooooooooooo no noo noooo.










CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The Whale's Skeleton.
NOOOOOO noo. Noooooooooo no Noo Noooo'n Nooooooo.







In the first place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain
No noo noooo noooo, N nooo no noo nooooo noo n nooooooooo, noooo

statement, touching the living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton we
noooooooo, nooooooo noo nooooo nooo no nooo noooooooo, noooo nooooooo no

are briefly to exhibit. Such a statement may prove useful here.
noo noooooo no noooooo. Nooo n noooooooo noo noooo nooooo nooo.




According to a careful calculation I have made, and which I partly base
Noooooooo no n noooooo noooooooooo N nooo nooo, noo noooo N nooooo nooo

upon Captain Scoresby's estimate, of seventy tons for the largest
nooo Noooooo Nooooooo'n nooooooo, no noooooo nooo noo noo noooooo

sized Greenland whale of sixty feet in length; according to my careful
noooo Noooooooo noooo no noooo nooo no nooooo; noooooooo no no noooooo

calculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest magnitude, between
noooooooooo, N noo, n Noooo Noooo no noo noooooo noooooooo, noooooo

eighty-five and ninety feet in length, and something less than forty
nooooo-nooo noo nooooo nooo no nooooo, noo noooooooo nooo nooo noooo

feet in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at least
nooo no noo noooooo noooooooooooo, nooo n noooo nooo noooo no noooo

ninety tons; so that, reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he would
nooooo nooo; no nooo, noooooooo nooooooo noo no n noo, no noooo

considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one
nooooooooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo no n noooo noooooo no noo

thousand one hundred inhabitants.
nooooooo noo noooooo noooooooooo.




Think you not then that brains, like yoked cattle, should be put to this
Noooo noo noo nooo nooo nooooo, nooo noooo nooooo, nooooo no noo no nooo

leviathan, to make him at all budge to any landsman's imagination?
noooooooo, no nooo noo no noo noooo no noo nooooooo'n noooooooooo?




Having already in various ways put before you his skull, spout-hole,
Nooooo noooooo no noooooo nooo noo nooooo noo noo noooo, noooo-nooo,

jaw, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers other parts, I shall now
noo, noooo, nooo, nooooooo, nooo, noo nooooo noooo noooo, N noooo noo

simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of his
nooooo noooo noo nooo no nooo noooooooooo no noo noooooo nooo no noo

unobstructed bones. But as the colossal skull embraces so very large
nooooooooooo noooo. Noo no noo nooooooo noooo nooooooo no nooo noooo

a proportion of the entire extent of the skeleton; as it is by far the
n nooooooooo no noo nooooo nooooo no noo nooooooo; no no no no noo noo

most complicated part; and as nothing is to be repeated concerning it in
nooo noooooooooo nooo; noo no noooooo no no no nooooooo nooooooooo no no

this chapter, you must not fail to carry it in your mind, or under your
nooo noooooo, noo nooo noo nooo no noooo no no nooo nooo, no noooo nooo

arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not gain a complete notion of the
noo, no no noooooo, noooooooo noo nooo noo nooo n nooooooo nooooo no noo

general structure we are about to view.
noooooo noooooooo no noo noooo no nooo.




In length, the Sperm Whale's skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two
No nooooo, noo Noooo Noooo'n nooooooo no Noooooo nooooooo noooooo-noo

Feet; so that when fully invested and extended in life, he must have
Nooo; no nooo nooo noooo nooooooo noo nooooooo no nooo, no nooo nooo

been ninety feet long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one
nooo nooooo nooo nooo; noo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo noooo noooo noo

fifth in length compared with the living body. Of this seventy-two feet,
noooo no nooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo. No nooo noooooo-noo nooo,

his skull and jaw comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty feet of
noo noooo noo noo noooooooo nooo nooooo nooo, noooooo nooo noooo nooo no

plain back-bone. Attached to this back-bone, for something less than a
noooo nooo-nooo. Nooooooo no nooo nooo-nooo, noo noooooooo nooo nooo n

third of its length, was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once
noooo no noo nooooo, noo noo nooooo nooooooo nooooo no nooo noooo nooo

enclosed his vitals.
nooooooo noo nooooo.




To me this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine,
No no nooo nooo noooo-nooooo noooo, nooo noo nooo, nooooooooo noooo,

extending far away from it in a straight line, not a little resembled
noooooooo noo nooo nooo no no n nooooooo nooo, noo n nooooo noooooooo

the hull of a great ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only some twenty
noo nooo no n noooo nooo noo-nooo nooo noo nooooo, nooo nooo nooo nooooo

of her naked bow-ribs are inserted, and the keel is otherwise, for the
no noo noooo noo-nooo noo nooooooo, noo noo nooo no noooooooo, noo noo

time, but a long, disconnected timber.
nooo, noo n nooo, nooooooooooo nooooo.




The ribs were ten on a side. The first, to begin from the neck,
Noo nooo nooo noo no n nooo. Noo noooo, no noooo nooo noo nooo,

was nearly six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were each
noo nooooo noo nooo nooo; noo nooooo, noooo, noo nooooo nooo nooo

successively longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or one
nooooooooooo nooooo, nooo noo nooo no noo nooooo no noo noooo, no noo

of the middle ribs, which measured eight feet and some inches. From
no noo nooooo nooo, noooo nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo nooooo. Nooo

that part, the remaining ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only
nooo nooo, noo noooooooo nooo nooooooooo, nooo noo noooo noo nooo nooo

spanned five feet and some inches. In general thickness, they all bore
noooooo nooo nooo noo nooo nooooo. No noooooo noooooooo, nooo noo nooo

a seemly correspondence to their length. The middle ribs were the most
n nooooo nooooooooooooo no noooo nooooo. Noo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo

arched. In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay
nooooo. No nooo no noo Noooooooo nooo noo nooo noo noooo noooooo no noo

footpath bridges over small streams.
nooooooo noooooo nooo noooo noooooo.




In considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the
No noooooooooo noooo nooo, N noooo noo noo no nooooo nooo nooo noo

circumstance, so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of
nooooooooooo, no noooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooo, nooo noo nooooooo no

the whale is by no means the mould of his invested form. The largest of
noo noooo no no no noooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo nooo. Noo noooooo no

the Tranque ribs, one of the middle ones, occupied that part of the fish
noo Noooooo nooo, noo no noo nooooo nooo, nooooooo nooo nooo no noo nooo

which, in life, is greatest in depth. Now, the greatest depth of the
noooo, no nooo, no nooooooo no noooo. Noo, noo nooooooo noooo no noo

invested body of this particular whale must have been at least sixteen
nooooooo nooo no nooo nooooooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo no noooo noooooo

feet; whereas, the corresponding rib measured but little more than eight
nooo; noooooo, noo noooooooooooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noooo

feet. So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion of the
nooo. No nooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo no noo

living magnitude of that part. Besides, for some way, where I now saw
nooooo noooooooo no nooo nooo. Noooooo, noo nooo noo, noooo N noo noo

but a naked spine, all that had been once wrapped round with tons of
noo n noooo noooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo noooo nooo nooo no

added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, for the
noooo nooo no noooo, nooooo, noooo, noo nooooo. Noooo nooo, noo noo

ample fins, I here saw but a few disordered joints; and in place of the
noooo nooo, N nooo noo noo n noo nooooooooo nooooo; noo no noooo no noo

weighty and majestic, but boneless flukes, an utter blank!
noooooo noo nooooooo, noo nooooooo nooooo, no noooo noooo!




How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid untravelled man to try
Noo nooo noo noooooo, nooo, noooooo N, noo noooo noooooooooo noo no noo

to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely poring over his dead
no nooooooooo nooooo nooo nooooooo noooo, no nooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo

attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood. No. Only in the
nooooooooo nooooooo, noooooooo no nooo nooooooo nooo. No. Nooo no noo

heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of his angry
noooo no nooooooo nooooo; nooo nooo nooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo

flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully invested whale
nooooo; nooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo noo, noo noo noooo nooooooo noooo

be truly and livingly found out.
no noooo noo nooooooo noooo noo.




But the spine. For that, the best way we can consider it is, with a
Noo noo noooo. Noo nooo, noo nooo noo no noo nooooooo no no, nooo n

crane, to pile its bones high up on end. No speedy enterprise. But now
noooo, no nooo noo noooo nooo no no noo. No nooooo nooooooooo. Noo noo

it's done, it looks much like Pompey's Pillar.
no'n nooo, no noooo nooo nooo Nooooo'n Nooooo.




There are forty and odd vertebrae in all, which in the skeleton are
Noooo noo noooo noo noo noooooooo no noo, noooo no noo nooooooo noo

not locked together. They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on
noo nooooo nooooooo. Nooo nooooo noo nooo noo noooo noooooo nooooo no

a Gothic spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry. The largest,
n Nooooo noooo, noooooo noooo noooooo no noooo noooooo. Noo noooooo,

a middle one, is in width something less than three feet, and in depth
n nooooo noo, no no noooo noooooooo nooo nooo noooo nooo, noo no noooo

more than four. The smallest, where the spine tapers away into the
nooo nooo nooo. Noo nooooooo, noooo noo noooo nooooo nooo nooo noo

tail, is only two inches in width, and looks something like a white
nooo, no nooo noo nooooo no noooo, noo noooo noooooooo nooo n noooo

billiard-ball. I was told that there were still smaller ones, but they
nooooooo-nooo. N noo nooo nooo noooo nooo noooo noooooo nooo, noo nooo

had been lost by some little cannibal urchins, the priest's children,
noo nooo nooo no nooo nooooo nooooooo noooooo, noo nooooo'n nooooooo,

who had stolen them to play marbles with. Thus we see how that the
noo noo nooooo nooo no nooo noooooo nooo. Nooo no noo noo nooo noo

spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off at last into simple
noooo no nooo noo nooooo no nooooo nooooo nooooo noo no nooo nooo nooooo

child's play.
noooo'n nooo.










CHAPTER 104. The Fossil Whale.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooo Noooo.







From his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon
Nooo noo nooooo nooo noo noooo noooooo n nooo noooooooo noooo noooooo

to enlarge, amplify, and generally expatiate. Would you, you could not
no noooooo, noooooo, noo noooooooo noooooooo. Noooo noo, noo noooo noo

compress him. By good rights he should only be treated of in imperial
nooooooo noo. No nooo nooooo no nooooo nooo no noooooo no no nooooooo

folio. Not to tell over again his furlongs from spiracle to tail,
noooo. Noo no nooo nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo nooooooo no nooo,

and the yards he measures about the waist; only think of the gigantic
noo noo noooo no nooooooo noooo noo noooo; nooo noooo no noo nooooooo

involutions of his intestines, where they lie in him like great
noooooooooo no noo nooooooooo, noooo nooo noo no noo nooo noooo

cables and hawsers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck of a
nooooo noo noooooo nooooo nooo no noo nooooooooooo noooo-nooo no n

line-of-battle-ship.
nooo-no-nooooo-nooo.




Since I have undertaken to manhandle this Leviathan, it behooves me
Noooo N nooo nooooooooo no noooooooo nooo Noooooooo, no nooooooo no

to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise; not
no noooooo nooooo nooooooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooooooo; noo

overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and spinning him
noooooooooo noo nooooooo noooooo noooo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo noo

out to the uttermost coil of his bowels. Having already described him
noo no noo noooooooo nooo no noo nooooo. Nooooo noooooo noooooooo noo

in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it
no nooo no noo noooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooooo noooooooooooo, no

now remains to magnify him in an archaeological, fossiliferous, and
noo noooooo no noooooo noo no no nooooooooooooo, noooooooooooo, noo

antediluvian point of view. Applied to any other creature than the
nooooooooooo noooo no nooo. Noooooo no noo noooo nooooooo nooo noo

Leviathan--to an ant or a flea--such portly terms might justly be deemed
Noooooooo--no no noo no n nooo--nooo nooooo noooo noooo nooooo no nooooo

unwarrantably grandiloquent. But when Leviathan is the text, the case is
noooooooooooo noooooooooooo. Noo nooo Noooooooo no noo nooo, noo nooo no

altered. Fain am I to stagger to this emprise under the weightiest
noooooo. Nooo no N no noooooo no nooo noooooo noooo noo nooooooooo

words of the dictionary. And here be it said, that whenever it has been
noooo no noo nooooooooo. Noo nooo no no nooo, nooo nooooooo no noo nooo

convenient to consult one in the course of these dissertations, I have
nooooooooo no noooooo noo no noo nooooo no noooo noooooooooooo, N nooo

invariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson, expressly purchased
nooooooooo nooo n nooo nooooo noooooo no Noooooo, noooooooo noooooooo

for that purpose; because that famous lexicographer's uncommon personal
noo nooo noooooo; noooooo nooo nooooo noooooooooooo'n nooooooo nooooooo

bulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a whale author
nooo nooo nooooo noo no noooooo n noooooo no no nooo no n noooo nooooo

like me.
nooo no.




One often hears of writers that rise and swell with their subject,
Noo noooo noooo no noooooo nooo nooo noo noooo nooo noooo noooooo,

though it may seem but an ordinary one. How, then, with me, writing
nooooo no noo nooo noo no nooooooo noo. Noo, nooo, nooo no, noooooo

of this Leviathan? Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard
no nooo Noooooooo? Noooooooooooo no noooooooooo noooooo nooo noooooo

capitals. Give me a condor's quill! Give me Vesuvius' crater for an
nooooooo. Nooo no n nooooo'n noooo! Nooo no Nooooooo' nooooo noo no

inkstand! Friends, hold my arms! For in the mere act of penning my
nooooooo! Noooooo, nooo no nooo! Noo no noo nooo noo no noooooo no

thoughts of this Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their
nooooooo no nooo Noooooooo, nooo noooo no, noo nooo no noooo nooo noooo

outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole
noooooooooo noooooooooooooooo no noooo, no no no noooooo noo noooo

circle of the sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and
nooooo no noo nooooooo, noo noo noo noooooooooo no nooooo, noo noo, noo

mastodons, past, present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas
noooooooo, nooo, noooooo, noo no nooo, nooo noo noo noooooooo noooooooo

of empire on earth, and throughout the whole universe, not excluding its
no nooooo no noooo, noo nooooooooo noo noooo nooooooo, noo noooooooo noo

suburbs. Such, and so magnifying, is the virtue of a large and liberal
noooooo. Nooo, noo no nooooooooo, no noo nooooo no n noooo noo noooooo

theme! We expand to its bulk. To produce a mighty book, you must choose
noooo! No nooooo no noo nooo. No noooooo n nooooo nooo, noo nooo nooooo

a mighty theme. No great and enduring volume can ever be written on the
n nooooo noooo. No noooo noo nooooooo nooooo noo nooo no noooooo no noo

flea, though many there be who have tried it.
nooo, nooooo nooo noooo no noo nooo noooo no.




Ere entering upon the subject of Fossil Whales, I present my credentials
Noo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo no Nooooo Nooooo, N noooooo no noooooooooo

as a geologist, by stating that in my miscellaneous time I have been
no n noooooooo, no noooooo nooo no no noooooooooooo nooo N nooo nooo

a stone-mason, and also a great digger of ditches, canals and wells,
n noooo-noooo, noo nooo n noooo nooooo no noooooo, nooooo noo noooo,

wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts. Likewise, by way of
nooo-nooooo, noooooo, noo nooooooo no noo noooo. Nooooooo, no noo no

preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while in the earlier
noooooooooo, N nooooo no nooooo noo nooooo, nooo noooo no noo noooooo

geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now almost
nooooooooo nooooo noooo noo noooo noo noooooo no nooooooo noo nooooo

completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are called
nooooooooo noooooo; noo nooooooooo nooooo nooooooooo no nooo noo nooooo

the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate intercepted
noo Nooooooo nooooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo, no no noo nooo noooooooooo

links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose remote
noooo, noooooo noo noooooooooooo noooooooo, noo noooo noooo nooooo

posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil Whales
noooooooo noo nooo no nooo noooooo noo Noo; noo noo Nooooo Nooooo

hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the last
nooooooo nooooooooo nooooo no noo Nooooooo nooooo, noooo no noo nooo

preceding the superficial formations. And though none of them
noooooooo noo noooooooooo nooooooooo. Noo nooooo nooo no nooo

precisely answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet
noooooooo nooooo no noo noooo noooooo no noo noooooo nooo, nooo noo noo

sufficiently akin to them in general respects, to justify their taking
nooooooooooo nooo no nooo no noooooo nooooooo, no noooooo noooo nooooo

rank as Cetacean fossils.
nooo no Nooooooo noooooo.




Detached broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of their bones
Nooooooo nooooo noooooo no noo-noooooo nooooo, noooooooo no noooo noooo

and skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals, been
noo noooooooo, nooo nooooo nooooo noooo nooo, no noooooo noooooooo, nooo

found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, in
noooo no noo nooo no noo Nooo, no Nooooooo, no Nooooo, no Noooooo, no

Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.
Nooooooo, noo no noo Nooooo no Noooooooo, Noooooooooo, noo Noooooo.

Among the more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the
Noooo noo nooo noooooo no nooo noooooo no nooo no n noooo, noooo no noo

year 1779 was disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street
nooo nooo noo noooooooooo no noo Noo Nooooooo no Noooo, n noooo nooooo

opening almost directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones
noooooo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo Noooooooo; noo noooo

disinterred in excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon's
noooooooooo no nooooooooo noo noooo noooo no Noooooo, no Nooooooo'n

time. Cuvier pronounced these fragments to have belonged to some utterly
nooo. Nooooo nooooooooo noooo noooooooo no nooo nooooooo no nooo noooooo

unknown Leviathanic species.
noooooo Noooooooooo noooooo.




But by far the most wonderful of all Cetacean relics was the almost
Noo no noo noo nooo noooooooo no noo Nooooooo nooooo noo noo nooooo

complete vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year 1842, on
nooooooo nooo nooooooo no no noooooo noooooo, noooo no noo nooo nooo, no

the plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama. The awe-stricken credulous
noo nooooooooo no Noooo Nooooo, no Noooooo. Noo noo-nooooooo noooooooo

slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen
nooooo no noo nooooooo nooo no noo noo noooo no noo no noo nooooo

angels. The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed
nooooo. Noo Noooooo noooooo nooooooo no n nooo noooooo, noo nooooooo

upon it the name of Basilosaurus. But some specimen bones of it being
nooo no noo nooo no Nooooooooooo. Noo nooo nooooooo noooo no no noooo

taken across the sea to Owen, the English Anatomist, it turned out
noooo nooooo noo noo no Nooo, noo Noooooo Noooooooo, no nooooo noo

that this alleged reptile was a whale, though of a departed species. A
nooo nooo noooooo noooooo noo n noooo, nooooo no n nooooooo noooooo. N

significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this
noooooooooo nooooooooooo no noo nooo, noooo noo noooo nooooooo no nooo

book, that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the
nooo, nooo noo nooooooo no noo noooo noooooooo noo nooooo nooo no noo

shape of his fully invested body. So Owen rechristened the monster
noooo no noo noooo nooooooo nooo. No Nooo nooooooooooo noo noooooo

Zeuglodon; and in his paper read before the London Geological Society,
Noooooooo; noo no noo noooo nooo nooooo noo Nooooo Nooooooooo Noooooo,

pronounced it, in substance, one of the most extraordinary creatures
nooooooooo no, no noooooooo, noo no noo nooo noooooooooooo noooooooo

which the mutations of the globe have blotted out of existence.
noooo noo noooooooo no noo noooo nooo noooooo noo no noooooooo.




When I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons, skulls, tusks,
Nooo N noooo noooo noooo nooooo Noooooooo noooooooo, nooooo, noooo,

jaws, ribs, and vertebrae, all characterized by partial resemblances to
nooo, nooo, noo noooooooo, noo noooooooooooo no noooooo nooooooooooo no

the existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time bearing on
noo nooooooo nooooo no noo-nooooooo; noo no noo nooo nooo noooooo no

the other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical
noo noooo nooo noooooo nooooooooo no noo noooooooooo noooooooooooo

Leviathans, their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back
Nooooooooo, noooo nooooooooooo noooooo; N no, no n noooo, noooo nooo

to that wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun;
no nooo nooooooo nooooo, noo nooo nooooo noo no nooo no nooo noooo;

for time began with man. Here Saturn's grey chaos rolls over me, and I
noo nooo noooo nooo noo. Nooo Nooooo'n nooo noooo noooo nooo no, noo N

obtain dim, shuddering glimpses into those Polar eternities; when wedged
nooooo noo, nooooooooo nooooooo nooo noooo Noooo nooooooooo; nooo nooooo

bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now the Tropics; and in
nooooooo no noo noooooo nooo nooo nooo noo noo noo Noooooo; noo no

all the 25,000 miles of this world's circumference, not an inhabitable
noo noo no,noo noooo no nooo noooo'n noooooooooooo, noo no noooooooooo

hand's breadth of land was visible. Then the whole world was the
nooo'n noooooo no nooo noo noooooo. Nooo noo noooo noooo noo noo

whale's; and, king of creation, he left his wake along the present lines
noooo'n; noo, nooo no nooooooo, no nooo noo nooo noooo noo noooooo noooo

of the Andes and the Himmalehs. Who can show a pedigree like Leviathan?
no noo Noooo noo noo Noooooooo. Noo noo nooo n nooooooo nooo Noooooooo?

Ahab's harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh's. Methuselah seems
Nooo'n noooooo noo nooo noooo noooo nooo noo Noooooo'n. Nooooooooo noooo

a school-boy. I look round to shake hands with Shem. I am horror-struck
n nooooo-noo. N nooo noooo no noooo noooo nooo Nooo. N no nooooo-nooooo

at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the unspeakable terrors of
no nooo nooooooooo, noooooooo noooooooo no noo noooooooooo noooooo no

the whale, which, having been before all time, must needs exist after
noo noooo, noooo, nooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo, nooo noooo noooo noooo

all humane ages are over.
noo nooooo nooo noo nooo.




But not alone has this Leviathan left his pre-adamite traces in the
Noo noo noooo noo nooo Noooooooo nooo noo noo-noooooo nooooo no noo

stereotype plates of nature, and in limestone and marl bequeathed his
nooooooooo nooooo no nooooo, noo no noooooooo noo nooo nooooooooo noo

ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets, whose antiquity seems to claim
noooooo nooo; noo nooo Nooooooo noooooo, noooo noooooooo noooo no noooo

for them an almost fossiliferous character, we find the unmistakable
noo nooo no nooooo noooooooooooo noooooooo, no nooo noo nooooooooooo

print of his fin. In an apartment of the great temple of Denderah,
noooo no noo noo. No no noooooooo no noo noooo nooooo no Nooooooo,

some fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a
nooo noooo noooo noo, noooo noo nooooooooo nooo noo noooooo noooooo n

sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs, griffins, and
nooooooooo noo noooooo noooooooooo, noooooooo no nooooooo, nooooooo, noo

dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globe of the
nooooooo, noooooo no noo noooooooo noooooo no noo noooooooo noooo no noo

moderns. Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was there
noooooo. Noooooo noooo nooo, noo Noooooooo nooo no no nooo; noo noooo

swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was cradled.
nooooooo no nooo noooooooooo, noooooooo nooooo Noooooo noo noooooo.




Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity
Noo nooo noooo no noooooo noooooo noooooo noooooooooo no noo noooooooo

of the whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by
no noo noooo, no noo noo noooooo nooo-nooooooo noooooo, no noo nooo no

the venerable John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.
noo noooooooo Nooo Noo, noo noo Noooooo noooooooo.




"Not far from the Sea-side, they have a Temple, the Rafters and Beams
"Noo noo nooo noo Noo-nooo, nooo nooo n Nooooo, noo Noooooo noo Noooo

of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales of a monstrous size are
no noooo noo nooo no Noooo-Noooo; noo Nooooo no n noooooooo nooo noo

oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore. The Common People imagine, that
nooooooooo nooo no nooo nooo nooo noooo. Noo Nooooo Nooooo noooooo, nooo

by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the temple, no Whale can pass it
no n nooooo Noooo nooooooo no Noo nooo noo nooooo, no Noooo noo nooo no

without immediate death. But the truth of the Matter is, that on either
noooooo noooooooo noooo. Noo noo noooo no noo Nooooo no, nooo no nooooo

side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into the Sea,
nooo no noo Nooooo, noooo noo Noooo nooo noooo noo Noooo nooo noo Noo,

and wound the Whales when they light upon 'em. They keep a Whale's Rib
noo noooo noo Nooooo nooo nooo noooo nooo 'no. Nooo nooo n Noooo'n Noo

of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with
no no nooooooooo nooooo noo n Noooooo, noooo noooo nooo noo Nooooo nooo

its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be
noo nooooo nooo noooooooo, noooo no Nooo, noo Nooo no noooo nooooo no

reached by a Man upon a Camel's Back. This Rib (says John Leo) is said
noooooo no n Noo nooo n Noooo'n Nooo. Nooo Noo (nooo Nooo Noo) no nooo

to have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it. Their Historians
no nooo nooo noooo n noooooo Noooo nooooo N noo no. Noooo Nooooooooo

affirm, that a Prophet who prophesy'd of Mahomet, came from this Temple,
nooooo, nooo n Noooooo noo nooooooo'n no Noooooo, nooo nooo nooo Nooooo,

and some do not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonas was cast forth
noo nooo no noo noooo no nooooo, nooo noo Noooooo Noooo noo nooo noooo

by the Whale at the Base of the Temple."
no noo Noooo no noo Nooo no noo Nooooo."




In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you, reader, and if you be a
No nooo Noooo Nooooo no noo Noooo N noooo noo, nooooo, noo no noo no n

Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship there.
Noooooooooo, noo n nooooooo, noo nooo nooooooo noooooo noooo.










CHAPTER 105. Does the Whale's Magnitude Diminish?--Will He Perish?
NOOOOOO noo. Nooo noo Noooo'n Noooooooo Nooooooo?--Nooo No Nooooo?







Inasmuch, then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from
Nooooooo, nooo, no nooo Noooooooo noooo noooooooooo nooo nooo no nooo

the head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether,
noo nooo-nooooo no noo Nooooooooo, no noo no noooo nooooooo, noooooo,

in the long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from the
no noo nooo nooooo no noo noooooooooo, no noo noo noooooooooo nooo noo

original bulk of his sires.
nooooooo nooo no noo noooo.




But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of the
Noo nooo noooooooooooo no nooo, nooo noo nooo noo noo nooooo no noo

present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are
noooooo noo nooooooo no noooooooo no noooo noooo nooooo noooooo noo

found in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period
noooo no noo Nooooooo nooooo (noooooooo n nooooooo nooooooooo nooooo

prior to man), but of the whales found in that Tertiary system, those
noooo no noo), noo no noo nooooo noooo no nooo Nooooooo nooooo, noooo

belonging to its latter formations exceed in size those of its earlier
noooooooo no noo nooooo nooooooooo nooooo no nooo noooo no noo noooooo

ones.
nooo.




Of all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far the largest is the
No noo noo noo-noooooo nooooo noo noooooo, no noo noo noooooo no noo

Alabama one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was less than
Noooooo noo noooooooo no noo nooo noooooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooo

seventy feet in length in the skeleton. Whereas, we have already seen,
noooooo nooo no nooooo no noo nooooooo. Noooooo, no nooo noooooo nooo,

that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a large
nooo noo nooo-noooooo noooo noooooo-noo nooo noo noo nooooooo no n noooo

sized modern whale. And I have heard, on whalemen's authority, that
noooo nooooo noooo. Noo N nooo noooo, no nooooooo'n noooooooo, nooo

Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of
Noooo Nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo n noooooo nooo nooo no noo nooo no

capture.
noooooo.




But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an
Noo noo no noo no, nooo noooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo nooo noo no

advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may
noooooo no noooooooo nooo noooo no noo nooooooo nooooooooo noooooo; noo

it not be, that since Adam's time they have degenerated?
no noo no, nooo noooo Nooo'n nooo nooo nooo noooooooooo?




Assuredly, we must conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of such
Noooooooo, no nooo nooooooo no, no no noo no nooooo noo nooooooo no nooo

gentlemen as Pliny, and the ancient naturalists generally. For Pliny
noooooooo no Noooo, noo noo noooooo noooooooooo noooooooo. Noo Noooo

tells us of Whales that embraced acres of living bulk, and Aldrovandus
noooo no no Nooooo nooo nooooooo noooo no nooooo nooo, noo Noooooooooo

of others which measured eight hundred feet in length--Rope Walks and
no nooooo noooo nooooooo noooo noooooo nooo no nooooo--Nooo Noooo noo

Thames Tunnels of Whales! And even in the days of Banks and Solander,
Nooooo Noooooo no Nooooo! Noo nooo no noo nooo no Noooo noo Nooooooo,

Cooke's naturalists, we find a Danish member of the Academy of Sciences
Noooo'n noooooooooo, no nooo n Nooooo nooooo no noo Noooooo no Nooooooo

setting down certain Iceland Whales (reydan-siskur, or Wrinkled Bellies)
noooooo nooo noooooo Noooooo Nooooo (nooooo-nooooo, no Nooooooo Noooooo)

at one hundred and twenty yards; that is, three hundred and sixty feet.
no noo noooooo noo nooooo noooo; nooo no, noooo noooooo noo noooo nooo.

And Lacepede, the French naturalist, in his elaborate history of whales,
Noo Nooooooo, noo Nooooo nooooooooo, no noo noooooooo noooooo no nooooo,

in the very beginning of his work (page 3), sets down the Right Whale at
no noo nooo noooooooo no noo nooo (nooo n), nooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo no

one hundred metres, three hundred and twenty-eight feet. And this work
noo noooooo nooooo, noooo noooooo noo nooooo-noooo nooo. Noo nooo nooo

was published so late as A.D. 1825.
noo noooooooo no nooo no N.N. nooo.




But will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale of to-day is
Noo nooo noo nooooooo noooooo noooo noooooo? No. Noo noooo no no-noo no

as big as his ancestors in Pliny's time. And if ever I go where Pliny
no noo no noo noooooooo no Noooo'n nooo. Noo no nooo N no noooo Noooo

is, I, a whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.
no, N, n nooooooo (nooo nooo no noo), nooo nooo nooo no nooo noo no.

Because I cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies
Noooooo N nooooo nooooooooo noo no no, nooo noooo noo Nooooooo noooooo

that were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not
nooo nooo nooooo noooooooo no noooo nooooo nooo Noooo noo nooo, no noo

measure so much in their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks;
noooooo no nooo no noooo noooooo no n nooooo Nooooooooo no noo noooo;

and while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldest Egyptian
noo noooo noo nooooo noo noooo noooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo Nooooooo

and Nineveh tablets, by the relative proportions in which they are
noo Noooooo noooooo, no noo nooooooo noooooooooo no noooo nooo noo

drawn, just as plainly prove that the high-bred, stall-fed, prize cattle
noooo, nooo no noooooo noooo nooo noo nooo-nooo, noooo-noo, noooo nooooo

of Smithfield, not only equal, but far exceed in magnitude the fattest
no Nooooooooo, noo nooo noooo, noo noo nooooo no noooooooo noo noooooo

of Pharaoh's fat kine; in the face of all this, I will not admit that of
no Noooooo'n noo nooo; no noo nooo no noo nooo, N nooo noo noooo nooo no

all animals the whale alone should have degenerated.
noo noooooo noo noooo noooo nooooo nooo noooooooooo.




But still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the more
Noo noooo noooooo noooooo noooooo; noo noooo nooooooo no noo nooo

recondite Nantucketers. Whether owing to the almost omniscient look-outs
noooooooo Nooooooooooo. Noooooo noooo no noo nooooo nooooooooo nooo-nooo

at the mast-heads of the whaleships, now penetrating even through
no noo nooo-noooo no noo nooooooooo, noo noooooooooo nooo noooooo

Behring's straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers
Noooooo'n noooooo, noo nooo noo nooooooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo

of the world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all
no noo noooo; noo noo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooooo noooo noo

continental coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure
noooooooooo nooooo; noo nooo noooo no, noooooo Noooooooo noo nooo nooooo

so wide a chase, and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must not at last
no nooo n noooo, noo no noooooooooo n noooo; noooooo no nooo noo no nooo

be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, like the last man,
no nooooooooooo nooo noo nooooo, noo noo nooo noooo, nooo noo nooo noo,

smoke his last pipe, and then himself evaporate in the final puff.
noooo noo nooo nooo, noo nooo noooooo noooooooo no noo noooo nooo.




Comparing the humped herds of whales with the humped herds of buffalo,
Noooooooo noo nooooo noooo no nooooo nooo noo nooooo noooo no noooooo,

which, not forty years ago, overspread by tens of thousands the prairies
noooo, noo noooo noooo noo, nooooooooo no nooo no noooooooo noo nooooooo

of Illinois and Missouri, and shook their iron manes and scowled with
no Nooooooo noo Nooooooo, noo noooo noooo nooo noooo noo noooooo nooo

their thunder-clotted brows upon the sites of populous river-capitals,
noooo noooooo-noooooo noooo nooo noo noooo no nooooooo noooo-nooooooo,

where now the polite broker sells you land at a dollar an inch; in such
noooo noo noo nooooo nooooo noooo noo nooo no n nooooo no nooo; no nooo

a comparison an irresistible argument would seem furnished, to show that
n nooooooooo no nooooooooooo nooooooo noooo nooo noooooooo, no nooo nooo

the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction.
noo nooooo noooo nooooo noo nooooo nooooo nooooooooo.




But you must look at this matter in every light. Though so short a
Noo noo nooo nooo no nooo nooooo no noooo noooo. Nooooo no noooo n

period ago--not a good lifetime--the census of the buffalo in Illinois
nooooo noo--noo n nooo nooooooo--noo nooooo no noo noooooo no Nooooooo

exceeded the census of men now in London, and though at the present day
nooooooo noo nooooo no noo noo no Nooooo, noo nooooo no noo noooooo noo

not one horn or hoof of them remains in all that region; and though the
noo noo nooo no nooo no nooo noooooo no noo nooo nooooo; noo nooooo noo

cause of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far
noooo no nooo nooooooo noooooooooooo noo noo noooo no noo; noo noo noo

different nature of the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious an
noooooooo nooooo no noo noooo-nooo nooooooooooo noooooo no nooooooooo no

end to the Leviathan. Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whales for
noo no noo Noooooooo. Noooo noo no noo nooo noooooo noo Noooo Nooooo noo

forty-eight months think they have done extremely well, and thank God,
noooo-noooo nooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooo, noo noooo Noo,

if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish. Whereas, in the days
no no nooo nooo noooo nooo noo noo no noooo nooo. Noooooo, no noo nooo

of the old Canadian and Indian hunters and trappers of the West, when
no noo noo Nooooooo noo Nooooo noooooo noo nooooooo no noo Nooo, nooo

the far west (in whose sunset suns still rise) was a wilderness and
noo noo nooo (no noooo nooooo nooo noooo nooo) noo n nooooooooo noo

a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for the same number of
n nooooo, noo nooo nooooo no nooooooooo noo, noo noo nooo nooooo no

months, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships, would have slain
nooooo, noooooo no noooo noooooo no noooooo no noooo, noooo nooo noooo

not forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact that, if need
noo noooo, noo noooo nooooooo noo nooo noooooooo; n nooo nooo, no nooo

were, could be statistically stated.
nooo, noooo no noooooooooooo nooooo.




Nor, considered aright, does it seem any argument in favour of the
Noo, nooooooooo nooooo, nooo no nooo noo nooooooo no nooooo no noo

gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former years
noooooo nooooooooo no noo Noooo Noooo, noo noooooo, nooo no nooooo noooo

(the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, in
(noo nooooo nooo no noo nooo noooooo, noo) noooo Nooooooooo, no

small pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in
noooo nooo, nooo noooooooooo nooo noooooo nooo no noooooo, noo, no

consequence, the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more
noooooooooo, noo noooooo nooo noo no noooooooo, noo nooo nooo nooo nooo

remunerative. Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales,
nooooooooooo. Noooooo, no noo nooo noooooooo noooooo, noooo nooooo,

influenced by some views to safety, now swim the seas in immense
nooooooooo no nooo noooo no nooooo, noo nooo noo nooo no noooooo

caravans, so that to a large degree the scattered solitaries, yokes, and
nooooooo, no nooo no n noooo nooooo noo noooooooo nooooooooo, noooo, noo

pods, and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast but widely
nooo, noo noooooo no noooo nooo noo noo nooooooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo

separated, unfrequent armies. That is all. And equally fallacious seems
noooooooo, nooooooooo nooooo. Nooo no noo. Noo noooooo nooooooooo noooo

the conceit, that because the so-called whale-bone whales no longer
noo noooooo, nooo noooooo noo no-nooooo noooo-nooo nooooo no nooooo

haunt many grounds in former years abounding with them, hence that
noooo nooo noooooo no nooooo noooo noooooooo nooo nooo, noooo nooo

species also is declining. For they are only being driven from
noooooo nooo no noooooooo. Noo nooo noo nooo noooo nooooo nooo

promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened with
nooooooooo no nooo; noo no noo noooo no no nooooo noooooooo nooo

their jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been very
noooo nooo, nooo, no nooo, nooo noooo noo noooooo nooooo noo nooo nooo

recently startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.
nooooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooo noooooooo.




Furthermore: concerning these last mentioned Leviathans, they have two
Noooooooooo: nooooooooo noooo nooo noooooooo Nooooooooo, nooo nooo noo

firm fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remain
nooo nooooooooo, noooo, no noo noooo noooooooooo, nooo noo nooo nooooo

impregnable. And as upon the invasion of their valleys, the frosty Swiss
noooooooooo. Noo no nooo noo nooooooo no noooo noooooo, noo nooooo Noooo

have retreated to their mountains; so, hunted from the savannas and
nooo noooooooo no noooo noooooooo; no, nooooo nooo noo nooooooo noo

glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales can at last resort to
nooooo no noo nooooo nooo, noo noooo-nooo nooooo noo no nooo nooooo no

their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers and
noooo Noooo nooooooo, noo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo nooooo nooooooo noo

walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in a charmed circle
noooo noooo, nooo no noooo noo nooooo noo noooo; noo no n noooooo nooooo

of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from man.
no noooooooooo Nooooooo, noo nooooooo no noo noooooo nooo noo.




But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
Noo no noooooo noooo no noooo noooo-nooo nooooo noo noooooooo noo noo

cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this
nooooooo, nooo nooooooooooo no noo nooooooooo nooo noooooooo nooo nooo

positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.
nooooooo noooo noo noooooo nooo noooooooo nooooooooo noooo nooooooooo.

But though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than
Noo nooooo noo nooo nooo nooo n nooooo no noooo nooooo, noo nooo nooo

13,000, have been annually slain on the nor'-west coast by the Americans
no,noo, nooo nooo nooooooo noooo no noo noo'-nooo noooo no noo Noooooooo

alone; yet there are considerations which render even this circumstance
noooo; noo noooo noo nooooooooooooo noooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooooooo

of little or no account as an opposing argument in this matter.
no nooooo no no noooooo no no nooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooooo.




Natural as it is to be somewhat incredulous concerning the populousness
Noooooo no no no no no nooooooo noooooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooooooo

of the more enormous creatures of the globe, yet what shall we say to
no noo nooo nooooooo noooooooo no noo noooo, noo nooo noooo no noo no

Harto, the historian of Goa, when he tells us that at one hunting the
Noooo, noo noooooooo no Noo, nooo no noooo no nooo no noo noooooo noo

King of Siam took 4,000 elephants; that in those regions elephants are
Nooo no Nooo nooo n,noo noooooooo; nooo no noooo noooooo noooooooo noo

numerous as droves of cattle in the temperate climes. And there seems no
nooooooo no nooooo no nooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo. Noo noooo noooo no

reason to doubt that if these elephants, which have now been hunted for
nooooo no noooo nooo no noooo noooooooo, noooo nooo noo nooo nooooo noo

thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus, by Hannibal, and by all the
noooooooo no noooo, no Noooooooo, no Noooo, no Nooooooo, noo no noo noo

successive monarchs of the East--if they still survive there in great
nooooooooo nooooooo no noo Nooo--no nooo noooo noooooo noooo no noooo

numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all hunting, since he
noooooo, nooo nooo noo noo noooo noooo noooooo noo noooooo, noooo no

has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as large as all
noo n noooooo no noooooooo no, noooo no noooooooo noooo no noooo no noo

Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all the Isles
Nooo, nooo Nooooooo, Nooooo noo Nooooo, Noo Noooooo, noo noo noo Noooo

of the sea combined.
no noo noo nooooooo.




Moreover: we are to consider, that from the presumed great longevity
Nooooooo: no noo no nooooooo, nooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo noooooooo

of whales, their probably attaining the age of a century and more,
no nooooo, noooo nooooooo noooooooo noo noo no n noooooo noo nooo,

therefore at any one period of time, several distinct adult generations
noooooooo no noo noo nooooo no nooo, noooooo nooooooo noooo noooooooooo

must be contemporary. And what that is, we may soon gain some idea
nooo no nooooooooooo. Noo nooo nooo no, no noo nooo nooo nooo nooo

of, by imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults of
no, no noooooooo noo noo noooo-noooo, nooooooooo, noo nooooo nooooo no

creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, and children
nooooooo nooooooo no noo nooo nooooo no noo noo noo, noooo, noo nooooooo

who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding this countless host to
noo nooo noooo noooooo-nooo noooo noo; noo nooooo nooo noooooooo nooo no

the present human population of the globe.
noo noooooo noooo nooooooooo no noo noooo.




Wherefore, for all these things, we account the whale immortal in his
Noooooooo, noo noo noooo nooooo, no noooooo noo noooo nooooooo no noo

species, however perishable in his individuality. He swam the seas
noooooo, noooooo nooooooooo no noo noooooooooooo. No nooo noo nooo

before the continents broke water; he once swam over the site of the
nooooo noo nooooooooo noooo noooo; no nooo nooo nooo noo nooo no noo

Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin. In Noah's flood he
Noooooooo, noo Noooooo Nooooo, noo noo Noooooo. No Nooo'n noooo no

despised Noah's Ark; and if ever the world is to be again flooded, like
nooooooo Nooo'n Noo; noo no nooo noo noooo no no no noooo noooooo, nooo

the Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale will still
noo Noooooooooo, no nooo noo noo nooo, nooo noo noooooo noooo nooo noooo

survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial flood,
noooooo, noo noooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo no noo nooooooooo noooo,

spout his frothed defiance to the skies.
noooo noo noooooo nooooooo no noo noooo.










CHAPTER 106. Ahab's Leg.
NOOOOOO noo. Nooo'n Noo.







The precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted the Samuel
Noo noooooooooooo nooooo no noooo Noooooo Nooo noo noooooo noo Nooooo

Enderby of London, had not been unattended with some small violence to
Noooooo no Nooooo, noo noo nooo nooooooooo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo no

his own person. He had lighted with such energy upon a thwart of his
noo noo nooooo. No noo noooooo nooo nooo nooooo nooo n nooooo no noo

boat that his ivory leg had received a half-splintering shock. And
nooo nooo noo noooo noo noo nooooooo n nooo-noooooooooo noooo. Noo

when after gaining his own deck, and his own pivot-hole there, he so
nooo noooo noooooo noo noo nooo, noo noo noo noooo-nooo noooo, no no

vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman (it
nooooooooo noooooo noooo nooo no nooooo noooooo no noo noooooooo (no

was, as ever, something about his not steering inflexibly enough); then,
noo, no nooo, noooooooo noooo noo noo nooooooo nooooooooo nooooo); nooo,

the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and wrench,
noo noooooo nooooo noooo nooooooo nooo no nooooooooo noooo noo nooooo,

that though it still remained entire, and to all appearances lusty, yet
nooo nooooo no noooo nooooooo nooooo, noo no noo noooooooooo noooo, noo

Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.
Nooo noo noo nooo no nooooooo noooooooooo.




And, indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his
Noo, nooooo, no nooooo noooo nooooo noo nooooo, nooo noo noo noo

pervading, mad recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the
noooooooo, noo nooooooooooo, Nooo noo no noooo nooo noooooo nooo no noo

condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it had not
noooooooo no nooo nooo nooo nooo noooo no nooooo noooo. Noo no noo noo

been very long prior to the Pequod's sailing from Nantucket, that he
nooo nooo nooo noooo no noo Nooooo'n noooooo nooo Noooooooo, nooo no

had been found one night lying prone upon the ground, and insensible;
noo nooo noooo noo noooo noooo noooo nooo noo nooooo, noo nooooooooo;

by some unknown, and seemingly inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his
no nooo noooooo, noo noooooooo nooooooooooo, nooooooooooo nooooooo, noo

ivory limb having been so violently displaced, that it had stake-wise
noooo nooo nooooo nooo no noooooooo noooooooo, nooo no noo noooo-nooo

smitten, and all but pierced his groin; nor was it without extreme
noooooo, noo noo noo noooooo noo noooo; noo noo no noooooo noooooo

difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured.
nooooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo noo nooooooo noooo.




Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
Noo, no noo nooo, noo no nooooo no noooo noo nooooooooo nooo, nooo noo

the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a
noo noooooo no nooo nooo noooooo noooooooo noo noo noo nooooo noooo no n

former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most poisonous
nooooo noo; noo no noo noooooo nooooo no noo, nooo no noo nooo noooooooo

reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as the sweetest
noooooo no noo noooo noooooooooo noo nooo no nooooooooo no noo nooooooo

songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity, all miserable
nooooooo no noo noooo; no, noooooo nooo noooo nooooooo, noo noooooooo

events do naturally beget their like. Yea, more than equally, thought
nooooo no noooooooo noooo noooo nooo. Noo, nooo nooo noooooo, noooooo

Ahab; since both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the
Nooo; noooo nooo noo nooooooo noo noooooooo no Noooo no noooooo nooo noo

ancestry and posterity of Joy. For, not to hint of this: that it is
nooooooo noo noooooooo no Noo. Noo, noo no nooo no nooo: nooo no no

an inference from certain canonic teachings, that while some natural
no noooooooo nooo noooooo noooooo noooooooo, nooo noooo nooo noooooo

enjoyments here shall have no children born to them for the other world,
nooooooooo nooo noooo nooo no nooooooo nooo no nooo noo noo noooo noooo,

but, on the contrary, shall be followed by the joy-childlessness of
noo, no noo nooooooo, noooo no nooooooo no noo noo-noooooooooooo no

all hell's despair; whereas, some guilty mortal miseries shall still
noo nooo'n noooooo; noooooo, nooo nooooo nooooo nooooooo noooo noooo

fertilely beget to themselves an eternally progressive progeny of griefs
noooooooo noooo no nooooooooo no noooooooo noooooooooo noooooo no nooooo

beyond the grave; not at all to hint of this, there still seems an
nooooo noo noooo; noo no noo no nooo no nooo, noooo noooo noooo no

inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing. For, thought Ahab, while
nooooooooo no noo nooooo nooooooo no noo noooo. Noo, noooooo Nooo, noooo

even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain unsignifying
nooo noo noooooo noooooo nooooooooo nooo nooo n noooooo nooooooooooo

pettiness lurking in them, but, at bottom, all heartwoes, a mystic
noooooooo noooooo no nooo, noo, no nooooo, noo noooooooo, n nooooo

significance, and, in some men, an archangelic grandeur; so do their
nooooooooooo, noo, no nooo noo, no noooooooooo nooooooo; no no noooo

diligent tracings-out not belie the obvious deduction. To trail the
nooooooo nooooooo-noo noo noooo noo noooooo noooooooo. No noooo noo

genealogies of these high mortal miseries, carries us at last among the
noooooooooo no noooo nooo nooooo nooooooo, noooooo no no nooo noooo noo

sourceless primogenitures of the gods; so that, in the face of all the
nooooooooo nooooooooooooo no noo nooo; no nooo, no noo nooo no noo noo

glad, hay-making suns, and soft cymballing, round harvest-moons, we must
nooo, noo-nooooo nooo, noo nooo nooooooooo, noooo noooooo-noooo, no nooo

needs give in to this: that the gods themselves are not for ever glad.
noooo nooo no no nooo: nooo noo nooo nooooooooo noo noo noo nooo nooo.

The ineffaceable, sad birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of
Noo nooooooooooo, noo noooo-nooo no noo nooo no noo, no noo noo noooo no

sorrow in the signers.
nooooo no noo noooooo.




Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more
Noooooooooo nooo n nooooo noo nooo nooooooo, noooo noooooo noooo nooo

properly, in set way, have been disclosed before. With many other
nooooooo, no noo noo, nooo nooo noooooooo nooooo. Nooo nooo noooo

particulars concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some,
noooooooooo nooooooooo Nooo, nooooo noo no nooooooo n noooooo no nooo,

why it was, that for a certain period, both before and after the sailing
noo no noo, nooo noo n noooooo nooooo, nooo nooooo noo noooo noo noooooo

of the Pequod, he had hidden himself away with such Grand-Lama-like
no noo Nooooo, no noo nooooo noooooo nooo nooo nooo Noooo-Nooo-nooo

exclusiveness; and, for that one interval, sought speechless refuge, as
noooooooooooo; noo, noo nooo noo nooooooo, nooooo nooooooooo nooooo, no

it were, among the marble senate of the dead. Captain Peleg's bruited
no nooo, noooo noo nooooo nooooo no noo nooo. Noooooo Noooo'n noooooo

reason for this thing appeared by no means adequate; though, indeed,
nooooo noo nooo noooo nooooooo no no noooo nooooooo; nooooo, nooooo,

as touching all Ahab's deeper part, every revelation partook more of
no nooooooo noo Nooo'n nooooo nooo, noooo nooooooooo noooooo nooo no

significant darkness than of explanatory light. But, in the end, it all
noooooooooo nooooooo nooo no noooooooooo noooo. Noo, no noo noo, no noo

came out; this one matter did, at least. That direful mishap was at
nooo noo; nooo noo nooooo noo, no noooo. Nooo noooooo nooooo noo no

the bottom of his temporary recluseness. And not only this, but to that
noo nooooo no noo noooooooo noooooooooo. Noo noo nooo nooo, noo no nooo

ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, who, for any reason, possessed
nooo-noooooooooo, nooooooo nooooo nooooo, noo, noo noo nooooo, noooooooo

the privilege of a less banned approach to him; to that timid circle the
noo noooooooo no n nooo nooooo nooooooo no noo; no nooo noooo nooooo noo

above hinted casualty--remaining, as it did, moodily unaccounted for by
noooo nooooo nooooooo--noooooooo, no no noo, noooooo noooooooooo noo no

Ahab--invested itself with terrors, not entirely underived from the land
Nooo--nooooooo nooooo nooo noooooo, noo nooooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooo

of spirits and of wails. So that, through their zeal for him, they had
no noooooo noo no noooo. No nooo, noooooo noooo nooo noo noo, nooo noo

all conspired, so far as in them lay, to muffle up the knowledge of
noo noooooooo, no noo no no nooo noo, no nooooo no noo noooooooo no

this thing from others; and hence it was, that not till a considerable
nooo noooo nooo nooooo; noo noooo no noo, nooo noo nooo n nooooooooooo

interval had elapsed, did it transpire upon the Pequod's decks.
nooooooo noo noooooo, noo no noooooooo nooo noo Nooooo'n noooo.




But be all this as it may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air,
Noo no noo nooo no no noo; noo noo nooooo, noooooooo noooo no noo noo,

or the vindictive princes and potentates of fire, have to do or not
no noo nooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooooo no nooo, nooo no no no noo

with earthly Ahab, yet, in this present matter of his leg, he took plain
nooo noooooo Nooo, noo, no nooo noooooo nooooo no noo noo, no nooo noooo

practical procedures;--he called the carpenter.
noooooooo nooooooooo;--no nooooo noo noooooooo.




And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him without delay
Noo nooo nooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooooo noo, no nooo noo noooooo noooo

set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him supplied
noo noooo nooooo n noo noo, noo nooooooo noo noooo no noo noo nooooooo

with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which had thus
nooo noo noo noooo noo nooooo no noo-noooo (Noooo Noooo) noooo noo nooo

far been accumulated on the voyage, in order that a careful selection
noo nooo noooooooooo no noo nooooo, no noooo nooo n noooooo noooooooo

of the stoutest, clearest-grained stuff might be secured. This done, the
no noo nooooooo, nooooooo-noooooo noooo noooo no noooooo. Nooo nooo, noo

carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that night; and to
noooooooo nooooooo nooooo no nooo noo noo noooooooo nooo noooo; noo no

provide all the fittings for it, independent of those pertaining to
noooooo noo noo nooooooo noo no, noooooooooo no noooo nooooooooo no

the distrusted one in use. Moreover, the ship's forge was ordered to be
noo nooooooooo noo no noo. Nooooooo, noo nooo'n noooo noo noooooo no no

hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold; and, to accelerate
noooooo noo no noo noooooooo nooooooo no noo nooo; noo, no nooooooooo

the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at once to the
noo nooooo, noo nooooooooo noo noooooooo no noooooo no nooo no noo

forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed.
noooooo no nooooooo nooo nooooooooooo noooo no nooooo.










CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noooooooo.







Seat thyself sultanically among the moons of Saturn, and take high
Nooo noooooo nooooooooooo noooo noo noooo no Nooooo, noo nooo nooo

abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe. But
nooooooooo noo noooo; noo no noooo n nooooo, n nooooooo, noo n noo. Noo

from the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they
nooo noo nooo noooo, nooo noooooo no nooo, noo noo noo nooo nooo, nooo

seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both contemporary and hereditary.
nooo n noo no noooooooooo nooooooooo, nooo nooooooooooo noo nooooooooo.

But most humble though he was, and far from furnishing an example of
Noo nooo nooooo nooooo no noo, noo noo nooo nooooooooo no noooooo no

the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter was no duplicate;
noo nooo, nooooo noooooooooo; noo Nooooo'n noooooooo noo no noooooooo;

hence, he now comes in person on this stage.
noooo, no noo noooo no nooooo no nooo noooo.




Like all sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging
Nooo noo noo-noooo nooo nooooooooo, noo nooo nooooooooo noooo noooooooo

to whaling vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent,
no noooooo noooooo, no noo, no n noooooo noo-nooooo, noooooooo nooooo,

alike experienced in numerous trades and callings collateral to his own;
noooo noooooooooo no nooooooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo no noo noo;

the carpenter's pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all
noo noooooooo'n noooooo noooo noo noooooo noo nooooooooooo noooo no noo

those numerous handicrafts which more or less have to do with wood as an
noooo nooooooo noooooooooo noooo nooo no nooo nooo no no nooo nooo no no

auxiliary material. But, besides the application to him of the generic
noooooooo nooooooo. Noo, noooooo noo noooooooooo no noo no noo noooooo

remark above, this carpenter of the Pequod was singularly efficient in
nooooo noooo, nooo noooooooo no noo Nooooo noo nooooooooo noooooooo no

those thousand nameless mechanical emergencies continually recurring
noooo nooooooo nooooooo nooooooooo noooooooooo noooooooooo noooooooo

in a large ship, upon a three or four years' voyage, in uncivilized
no n noooo nooo, nooo n noooo no nooo noooo' nooooo, no noooooooooo

and far-distant seas. For not to speak of his readiness in ordinary
noo noo-noooooo nooo. Noo noo no noooo no noo noooooooo no nooooooo

duties:--repairing stove boats, sprung spars, reforming the shape of
nooooo:--noooooooo noooo noooo, nooooo noooo, noooooooo noo noooo no

clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull's eyes in the deck, or new tree-nails
nooooo-nooooo nooo, noooooooo nooo'n nooo no noo nooo, no noo nooo-noooo

in the side planks, and other miscellaneous matters more directly
no noo nooo nooooo, noo noooo noooooooooooo noooooo nooo nooooooo

pertaining to his special business; he was moreover unhesitatingly
nooooooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo; no noo nooooooo nooooooooooooo

expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes, both useful and
nooooo no noo nooooo no noooooooooo noooooooo, nooo nooooo noo

capricious.
nooooooooo.




The one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold,
Noo noo noooo noooo noooo no noooooo noo noo noooooo noooo no nooooooo,

was his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table furnished with several
noo noo nooo-noooo; n nooo nooo noooooooo noooo noooooooo nooo noooooo

vices, of different sizes, and both of iron and of wood. At all times
noooo, no noooooooo noooo, noo nooo no nooo noo no nooo. No noo noooo

except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely lashed
nooooo nooo nooooo nooo noooooooo, nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooooo

athwartships against the rear of the Try-works.
nooooooooooo noooooo noo nooo no noo Noo-noooo.




A belaying pin is found too large to be easily inserted into its hole:
N nooooooo noo no noooo noo noooo no no nooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo:

the carpenter claps it into one of his ever-ready vices, and straightway
noo noooooooo noooo no nooo noo no noo nooo-noooo noooo, noo noooooooooo

files it smaller. A lost land-bird of strange plumage strays on board,
noooo no noooooo. N nooo nooo-nooo no noooooo noooooo nooooo no noooo,

and is made a captive: out of clean shaved rods of right-whale bone, and
noo no nooo n noooooo: noo no noooo nooooo nooo no noooo-noooo nooo, noo

cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking
noooo-noooo no noooo noooo noooo, noo noooooooo noooo n nooooo-noooooo

cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist: the carpenter concocts a
nooo noo no. No noooooo noooooo noo noooo: noo noooooooo nooooooo n

soothing lotion. Stubb longed for vermillion stars to be painted upon
nooooooo nooooo. Noooo nooooo noo nooooooooo noooo no no noooooo nooo

the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his big vice of wood,
noo noooo no noo noooo noo; nooooooo nooo noo no noo noo nooo no nooo,

the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation. A sailor takes
noo noooooooo noooooooooooo nooooooo noo noooooooooooo. N nooooo noooo

a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his ears.
n noooo no nooo noooo-nooo noo-noooo: noo noooooooo nooooo noo nooo.

Another has the toothache: the carpenter out pincers, and clapping
Noooooo noo noo noooooooo: noo noooooooo noo noooooo, noo nooooooo

one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; but the poor fellow
noo nooo nooo noo noooo nooo noo no nooooo noooo; noo noo nooo nooooo

unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation; whirling round the
nooooooooooo nooooo noooo noo noooooooooo noooooooo; nooooooo noooo noo

handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in
nooooo no noo nooooo nooo, noo noooooooo noooo noo no nooo noo noo no

that, if he would have him draw the tooth.
nooo, no no noooo nooo noo nooo noo noooo.




Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all points, and alike indifferent
Nooo, nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooo, noo noooo noooooooooo

and without respect in all. Teeth he accounted bits of ivory; heads he
noo noooooo noooooo no noo. Noooo no noooooooo nooo no noooo; noooo no

deemed but top-blocks; men themselves he lightly held for capstans. But
nooooo noo noo-nooooo; noo nooooooooo no noooooo nooo noo nooooooo. Noo

while now upon so wide a field thus variously accomplished and with such
noooo noo nooo no nooo n noooo nooo noooooooo nooooooooooo noo nooo nooo

liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this would seem to argue some
nooooooooo no nooooooooo no noo, noo; noo nooo noooo nooo no noooo nooo

uncommon vivacity of intelligence. But not precisely so. For nothing was
nooooooo nooooooo no nooooooooooo. Noo noo noooooooo no. Noo noooooo noo

this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal stolidity as
nooo noo nooo nooooooooo, nooo noo n noooooo nooooooooo noooooooo no

it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the surrounding
no nooo; nooooooooo, N noo; noo no no nooooo noo nooo noo noooooooooo

infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general stolidity
nooooooo no nooooo, nooo no nooooo noo nooo noo noooooo noooooooo

discernible in the whole visible world; which while pauselessly active
noooooooooo no noo noooo noooooo noooo; noooo noooo noooooooooo nooooo

in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace, and ignores you,
no noooooooo noooo, noooo noooooooo noooo noo noooo, noo noooooo noo,

though you dig foundations for cathedrals. Yet was this half-horrible
nooooo noo noo noooooooooo noo nooooooooo. Noo noo nooo nooo-nooooooo

stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an all-ramifying
noooooooo no noo, noooooooo, noo, no no nooooooo, no noo-noooooooo

heartlessness;--yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an old,
noooooooooooo;--noo noo no noooo nooooo no noooo, nooo no noo,

crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked now
nooooo-nooo, nooooooooooo, nooooooo nooooooooooo, noo nooooooooo noo

and then with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have served
noo nooo nooo n noooooo nooooooo noooooooo; nooo no noooo nooo nooooo

to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle
no nooo noo nooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo no noo noooooo nooooooooo

of Noah's ark. Was it that this old carpenter had been a life-long
no Nooo'n noo. Noo no nooo nooo noo noooooooo noo nooo n nooo-nooo

wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only had gathered no moss;
nooooooo, noooo nooo noooooo, no noo noo, noo nooo noo nooooooo no nooo;

but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small outward clingings
noo nooo no nooo, noo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo noooooo noooooooo

might have originally pertained to him? He was a stript abstract; an
noooo nooo nooooooooo noooooooo no noo? No noo n nooooo nooooooo; no

unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born babe; living without
nooooooooooo nooooooo; noooooooooooo no n noo-nooo nooo; nooooo noooooo

premeditated reference to this world or the next. You might almost
nooooooooooo noooooooo no nooo noooo no noo nooo. Noo noooo nooooo

say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him involved a sort of
noo, nooo nooo noooooo noooooooooooooooo no noo nooooooo n nooo no

unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did not seem to work so
nooooooooooooo; noo no noo nooooooo nooooo, no noo noo nooo no nooo no

much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he had been tutored to
nooo no nooooo no no nooooooo, no nooooo noooooo no noo nooo noooooo no

it, or by any intermixture of all these, even or uneven; but merely by
no, no no noo nooooooooooo no noo noooo, nooo no nooooo; noo nooooo no

a kind of deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal process. He was a pure
n nooo no nooo noo nooo, noooooooooo noooooo noooooo. No noo n nooo

manipulator; his brain, if he had ever had one, must have early
noooooooooo; noo noooo, no no noo nooo noo noo, nooo nooo noooo

oozed along into the muscles of his fingers. He was like one of
noooo noooo nooo noo noooooo no noo noooooo. No noo nooo noo no

those unreasoning but still highly useful, MULTUM IN PARVO, Sheffield
noooo noooooooooo noo noooo nooooo nooooo, NOOOOO NO NOOOO, Noooooooo

contrivances, assuming the exterior--though a little swelled--of a
nooooooooooo, nooooooo noo nooooooo--nooooo n nooooo noooooo--no n

common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of various sizes,
nooooo nooooo noooo; noo nooooooooo, noo nooo nooooo no noooooo noooo,

but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls, pens, rulers,
noo nooo noooo-noooooo, nooo-nooooo, nooooooo, nooo, nooo, nooooo,

nail-filers, countersinkers. So, if his superiors wanted to use the
nooo-nooooo, nooooooooooooo. No, no noo noooooooo nooooo no noo noo

carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open that part
noooooooo noo n noooo-nooooo, noo nooo noo no no noo no nooo nooo nooo

of him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him up by the
no noo, noo noo noooo noo nooo: no no noo nooooooo, nooo noo no no noo

legs, and there they were.
nooo, noo noooo nooo nooo.




Yet, as previously hinted, this omnitooled, open-and-shut carpenter,
Noo, no nooooooooo nooooo, nooo nooooooooo, nooo-noo-nooo noooooooo,

was, after all, no mere machine of an automaton. If he did not have a
noo, noooo noo, no nooo noooooo no no noooooooo. No no noo noo nooo n

common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously
nooooo nooo no noo, no noo n nooooo noooooooo nooo noooooo noooooooooo

did its duty. What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a few
noo noo nooo. Nooo nooo noo, noooooo noooooo no noooooooooo, no n noo

drops of hartshorn, there is no telling. But there it was; and there it
noooo no noooooooo, noooo no no noooooo. Noo noooo no noo; noo noooo no

had abided for now some sixty years or more. And this it was, this same
noo nooooo noo noo nooo noooo noooo no nooo. Noo nooo no noo, nooo nooo

unaccountable, cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kept
noooooooooooo, noooooo nooo-noooooooo no noo; nooo no noo, nooo nooo

him a great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like an unreasoning
noo n noooo nooo no noo nooo noooooooooooo; noo nooo nooo no noooooooooo

wheel, which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rather, his body was a
noooo, noooo nooo noooooooo nooooooooooo; no nooooo, noo nooo noo n

sentry-box and this soliloquizer on guard there, and talking all the
nooooo-noo noo nooo nooooooooooo no noooo noooo, noo noooooo noo noo

time to keep himself awake.
nooo no nooo noooooo noooo.










CHAPTER 108. Ahab and the Carpenter.
NOOOOOO noo. Nooo noo noo Noooooooo.




The Deck--First Night Watch.
Noo Nooo--Noooo Noooo Noooo.







(CARPENTER STANDING BEFORE HIS VICE-BENCH, AND BY THE LIGHT OF TWO
(NOOOOOOOO NOOOOOOO NOOOOO NOO NOOO-NOOOO, NOO NO NOO NOOOO NO NOO

LANTERNS BUSILY FILING THE IVORY JOIST FOR THE LEG, WHICH JOIST IS
NOOOOOOO NOOOOO NOOOOO NOO NOOOO NOOOO NOO NOO NOO, NOOOO NOOOO NO

FIRMLY FIXED IN THE VICE. SLABS OF IVORY, LEATHER STRAPS, PADS, SCREWS,
NOOOOO NOOOO NO NOO NOOO. NOOOO NO NOOOO, NOOOOOO NOOOOO, NOOO, NOOOOO,

AND VARIOUS TOOLS OF ALL SORTS LYING ABOUT THE BENCH. FORWARD, THE RED
NOO NOOOOOO NOOOO NO NOO NOOOO NOOOO NOOOO NOO NOOOO. NOOOOOO, NOO NOO

FLAME OF THE FORGE IS SEEN, WHERE THE BLACKSMITH IS AT WORK.)
NOOOO NO NOO NOOOO NO NOOO, NOOOO NOO NOOOOOOOOO NO NO NOOO.)







Drat the file, and drat the bone! That is hard which should be soft,
Nooo noo nooo, noo nooo noo nooo! Nooo no nooo noooo nooooo no nooo,

and that is soft which should be hard. So we go, who file old jaws and
noo nooo no nooo noooo nooooo no nooo. No no no, noo nooo noo nooo noo

shinbones. Let's try another. Aye, now, this works better (SNEEZES).
noooooooo. Noo'n noo noooooo. Noo, noo, nooo noooo nooooo (NOOOOOO).

Halloa, this bone dust is (SNEEZES)--why it's (SNEEZES)--yes it's
Nooooo, nooo nooo nooo no (NOOOOOO)--noo no'n (NOOOOOO)--noo no'n

(SNEEZES)--bless my soul, it won't let me speak! This is what an old
(NOOOOOO)--noooo no nooo, no noo'n noo no noooo! Nooo no nooo no noo

fellow gets now for working in dead lumber. Saw a live tree, and
nooooo nooo noo noo noooooo no nooo nooooo. Noo n nooo nooo, noo

you don't get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don't get it
noo noo'n noo nooo nooo; nooooooo n nooo nooo, noo noo noo'n noo no

(SNEEZES). Come, come, you old Smut, there, bear a hand, and let's have
(NOOOOOO). Nooo, nooo, noo noo Nooo, noooo, nooo n nooo, noo noo'n nooo

that ferule and buckle-screw; I'll be ready for them presently. Lucky
nooo nooooo noo nooooo-noooo; N'no no noooo noo nooo noooooooo. Noooo

now (SNEEZES) there's no knee-joint to make; that might puzzle a little;
noo (NOOOOOO) noooo'n no nooo-noooo no nooo; nooo noooo nooooo n nooooo;

but a mere shinbone--why it's easy as making hop-poles; only I should
noo n nooo nooooooo--noo no'n nooo no nooooo noo-noooo; nooo N nooooo

like to put a good finish on. Time, time; if I but only had the time, I
nooo no noo n nooo nooooo no. Nooo, nooo; no N noo nooo noo noo nooo, N

could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever (SNEEZES) scraped to a lady
noooo nooo noo noo no nooo n noo noo no nooo (NOOOOOO) noooooo no n nooo

in a parlor. Those buckskin legs and calves of legs I've seen in shop
no n nooooo. Noooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo no nooo N'no nooo no nooo

windows wouldn't compare at all. They soak water, they do; and of
noooooo nooooo'n noooooo no noo. Nooo nooo noooo, nooo no; noo no

course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored (SNEEZES) with washes and
nooooo noo noooooooo, noo nooo no no nooooooo (NOOOOOO) nooo nooooo noo

lotions, just like live legs. There; before I saw it off, now, I must
noooooo, nooo nooo nooo nooo. Noooo; nooooo N noo no noo, noo, N nooo

call his old Mogulship, and see whether the length will be all right;
nooo noo noo Noooooooo, noo noo noooooo noo nooooo nooo no noo noooo;

too short, if anything, I guess. Ha! that's the heel; we are in luck;
noo noooo, no nooooooo, N noooo. No! nooo'n noo nooo; no noo no nooo;

here he comes, or it's somebody else, that's certain.
nooo no noooo, no no'n nooooooo nooo, nooo'n noooooo.




AHAB (ADVANCING)
NOOO (NOOOOOOOO)




(DURING THE ENSUING SCENE, THE CARPENTER CONTINUES SNEEZING AT TIMES)
(NOOOOO NOO NOOOOOO NOOOO, NOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOOOOO NO NOOOO)







Well, manmaker!
Nooo, nooooooo!




Just in time, sir. If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.
Nooo no nooo, noo. No noo noooooo noooooo, N nooo noo nooo noo nooooo.

Let me measure, sir.
Noo no noooooo, noo.




Measured for a leg! good. Well, it's not the first time. About it!
Nooooooo noo n noo! nooo. Nooo, no'n noo noo noooo nooo. Noooo no!

There; keep thy finger on it. This is a cogent vice thou hast here,
Noooo; nooo noo nooooo no no. Nooo no n nooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo,

carpenter; let me feel its grip once. So, so; it does pinch some.
noooooooo; noo no nooo noo nooo nooo. No, no; no nooo noooo nooo.




Oh, sir, it will break bones--beware, beware!
No, noo, no nooo noooo noooo--nooooo, nooooo!




No fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this
No nooo; N nooo n nooo nooo; N nooo no nooo noooooooo no nooo

slippery world that can hold, man. What's Prometheus about there?--the
nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo, noo. Nooo'n Nooooooooo noooo noooo?--noo

blacksmith, I mean--what's he about?
nooooooooo, N nooo--nooo'n no noooo?




He must be forging the buckle-screw, sir, now.
No nooo no noooooo noo nooooo-noooo, noo, noo.




Right. It's a partnership; he supplies the muscle part. He makes a
Noooo. No'n n noooooooooo; no nooooooo noo nooooo nooo. No noooo n

fierce red flame there!
nooooo noo noooo noooo!




Aye, sir; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work.
Noo, noo; no nooo nooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo nooo no nooo nooo.




Um-m. So he must. I do deem it now a most meaning thing, that that
No-n. No no nooo. N no nooo no noo n nooo noooooo noooo, nooo nooo

old Greek, Prometheus, who made men, they say, should have been a
noo Noooo, Nooooooooo, noo nooo noo, nooo noo, nooooo nooo nooo n

blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what's made in fire must
nooooooooo, noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooo; noo nooo'n nooo no nooo nooo

properly belong to fire; and so hell's probable. How the soot flies!
nooooooo nooooo no nooo; noo no nooo'n nooooooo. Noo noo nooo noooo!

This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of. Carpenter,
Nooo nooo no noo noooooooo noo Noooo nooo noo Nooooooo no. Noooooooo,

when he's through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of steel
nooo no'n noooooo nooo nooo nooooo, nooo noo no noooo n nooo no noooo

shoulder-blades; there's a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack.
nooooooo-nooooo; noooo'n n nooooo nooooo nooo n nooooooo nooo.




Sir?
Noo?




Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I'll order a complete man after a
Nooo; noooo Nooooooooo no noooo no, N'no noooo n nooooooo noo noooo n

desirable pattern. Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chest
noooooooo noooooo. Nooooooo, noooo nooo nooo no noo noooo; nooo, noooo

modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to 'em, to stay
nooooooo noooo noo Nooooo Nooooo; nooo, nooo nooo noooo no 'no, no nooo

in one place; then, arms three feet through the wrist; no heart at all,
no noo noooo; nooo, nooo noooo nooo noooooo noo noooo; no noooo no noo,

brass forehead, and about a quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let
noooo nooooooo, noo noooo n noooooo no no nooo no nooo nooooo; noo noo

me see--shall I order eyes to see outwards? No, but put a sky-light on
no noo--noooo N noooo nooo no noo nooooooo? No, noo noo n noo-noooo no

top of his head to illuminate inwards. There, take the order, and away.
noo no noo nooo no nooooooooo noooooo. Noooo, nooo noo noooo, noo nooo.




Now, what's he speaking about, and who's he speaking to, I should like
Noo, nooo'n no nooooooo noooo, noo noo'n no nooooooo no, N nooooo nooo

to know? Shall I keep standing here? (ASIDE).
no nooo? Noooo N nooo nooooooo nooo? (NOOOO).




'Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here's one. No,
'Noo noo noooooooooo nooooooooooo no nooo n noooo nooo; nooo'n noo. No,

no, no; I must have a lantern.
no, no; N nooo nooo n noooooo.




Ho, ho! That's it, hey? Here are two, sir; one will serve my turn.
No, no! Nooo'n no, noo? Nooo noo noo, noo; noo nooo noooo no nooo.




What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man?
Nooo noo nooo noooooooo nooo noooo-noooooo nooo no nooo noo, noo?

Thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.
Nooooooo noooo no noooo nooo noooooooo noooooo.




I thought, sir, that you spoke to carpenter.
N noooooo, noo, nooo noo noooo no noooooooo.







Carpenter? why that's--but no;--a very tidy, and, I may say,
Noooooooo? noo nooo'n--noo no;--n nooo nooo, noo, N noo noo,

an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here,
no noooooooo noooooooooooo nooo no nooooooo nooo noo no nooo,

carpenter;--or would'st thou rather work in clay?
noooooooo;--no noooo'no nooo nooooo nooo no nooo?




Sir?--Clay? clay, sir? That's mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.
Noo?--Nooo? nooo, noo? Nooo'n noo; no noooo nooo no nooooooo, noo.




The fellow's impious! What art thou sneezing about?
Noo nooooo'n noooooo! Nooo noo nooo nooooooo noooo?




Bone is rather dusty, sir.
Nooo no nooooo noooo, noo.




Take the hint, then; and when thou art dead, never bury thyself under
Nooo noo nooo, nooo; noo nooo nooo noo nooo, noooo nooo noooooo noooo

living people's noses.
nooooo nooooo'n noooo.




Sir?--oh! ah!--I guess so;--yes--dear!
Noo?--no! no!--N noooo no;--noo--nooo!




Look ye, carpenter, I dare say thou callest thyself a right good
Nooo no, noooooooo, N nooo noo nooo noooooo noooooo n noooo nooo

workmanlike workman, eh? Well, then, will it speak thoroughly well
noooooooooo noooooo, no? Nooo, nooo, nooo no noooo nooooooooo nooo

for thy work, if, when I come to mount this leg thou makest, I shall
noo noo nooo, no, nooo N nooo no noooo nooo noo nooo nooooo, N noooo

nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical place with it; that
nooooooooooo nooo noooooo noo no noo nooo noooooooo noooo nooo no; nooo

is, carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one, I mean. Canst
no, noooooooo, no noo nooo noo; noo noooo noo noooo noo, N nooo. Noooo

thou not drive that old Adam away?
nooo noo noooo nooo noo Nooo nooo?




Truly, sir, I begin to understand somewhat now. Yes, I have heard
Noooo, noo, N noooo no nooooooooo nooooooo noo. Noo, N nooo noooo

something curious on that score, sir; how that a dismasted man never
noooooooo noooooo no nooo noooo, noo; noo nooo n noooooooo noo noooo

entirely loses the feeling of his old spar, but it will be still
nooooooo noooo noo noooooo no noo noo nooo, noo no nooo no noooo

pricking him at times. May I humbly ask if it be really so, sir?
nooooooo noo no noooo. Noo N nooooo noo no no no nooooo no, noo?




It is, man. Look, put thy live leg here in the place where mine once
No no, noo. Nooo, noo noo nooo noo nooo no noo noooo noooo nooo nooo

was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye, yet two to the
noo; no, noo, nooo no nooo noo nooooooo noo no noo noo, noo noo no noo

soul. Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to a
nooo. Noooo nooo noooooo nooooooo nooo; noooo, noooooo noooo, noooo no n

hair, do I. Is't a riddle?
nooo, no N. No'n n nooooo?




I should humbly call it a poser, sir.
N nooooo nooooo nooo no n noooo, noo.




Hist, then. How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing
Nooo, nooo. Noo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo, nooooo, nooooooo noooo

may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where
noo noo no noooooooo noo nooooooooooooooooooo nooooooo noooooooo noooo

thou now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite? In thy most
nooo noo nooooooo; noo, noo nooooooo noooo no noo noooo? No noo nooo

solitary hours, then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers? Hold, don't
nooooooo noooo, nooo, nooo nooo noo nooo noooooooooooo? Nooo, noo'n

speak! And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now
noooo! Noo no N noooo nooo noo noooo no no noooooo noo, nooooo no no noo

so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery
no nooo noooooooo; nooo, noo noooo noo nooo, noooooooo, nooo noo noooo

pains of hell for ever, and without a body? Hah!
noooo no nooo noo nooo, noo noooooo n nooo? Noo!




Good Lord! Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must calculate over again;
Nooo Nooo! Noooo, noo, no no noooo no nooo, N nooo noooooooo nooo noooo;

I think I didn't carry a small figure, sir.
N noooo N nooo'n noooo n noooo nooooo, noo.




Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.--How long before the
Nooo no, noooooo-noooo nooooo noooo noooo nooooooo.--Noo nooo nooooo noo

leg is done?
noo no nooo?




Perhaps an hour, sir.
Noooooo no nooo, noo.




Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me (TURNS TO GO). Oh, Life! Here
Nooooo nooo no no nooo, noo noooo no no no (NOOOO NO NO). No, Nooo! Nooo

I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to this blockhead for
N no, noooo no Noooo noo, noo noo nooooooo nooooo no nooo noooooooo noo

a bone to stand on! Cursed be that mortal inter-indebtedness which will
n nooo no noooo no! Nooooo no nooo nooooo noooo-nooooooooooo noooo nooo

not do away with ledgers. I would be free as air; and I'm down in the
noo no nooo nooo noooooo. N noooo no nooo no noo; noo N'n nooo no noo

whole world's books. I am so rich, I could have given bid for bid with
noooo noooo'n noooo. N no no nooo, N noooo nooo noooo noo noo noo nooo

the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman empire (which was
noo nooooooooo Noooooooooo no noo noooooo no noo Noooo nooooo (noooo noo

the world's); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I brag with. By
noo noooo'n); noo noo N noo noo noo noooo no noo nooooo N nooo nooo. No

heavens! I'll get a crucible, and into it, and dissolve myself down to
noooooo! N'no noo n nooooooo, noo nooo no, noo nooooooo nooooo nooo no

one small, compendious vertebra. So.
noo noooo, noooooooooo nooooooo. No.




CARPENTER (RESUMING HIS WORK).
NOOOOOOOO (NOOOOOOO NOO NOOO).







Well, well, well! Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb always says
Nooo, nooo, nooo! Noooo noooo noo nooo no noo, noo Noooo nooooo nooo

he's queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word queer; he's
no'n noooo; nooo noooooo noo nooo noo nooooooooo nooooo nooo noooo; no'n

queer, says Stubb; he's queer--queer, queer; and keeps dinning it into
noooo, nooo Noooo; no'n noooo--noooo, noooo; noo noooo noooooo no nooo

Mr. Starbuck all the time--queer--sir--queer, queer, very queer. And
No. Nooooooo noo noo nooo--noooo--noo--noooo, noooo, nooo noooo. Noo

here's his leg! Yes, now that I think of it, here's his bedfellow! has
nooo'n noo noo! Noo, noo nooo N noooo no no, nooo'n noo noooooooo! noo

a stick of whale's jaw-bone for a wife! And this is his leg; he'll stand
n noooo no noooo'n noo-nooo noo n nooo! Noo nooo no noo noo; no'no noooo

on this. What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and
no nooo. Nooo noo nooo noo noooo noo noo nooooooo no noooo nooooo, noo

all three places standing in one hell--how was that? Oh! I don't wonder
noo noooo nooooo nooooooo no noo nooo--noo noo nooo? No! N noo'n nooooo

he looked so scornful at me! I'm a sort of strange-thoughted sometimes,
no nooooo no nooooooo no no! N'n n nooo no noooooo-noooooooo noooooooo,

they say; but that's only haphazard-like. Then, a short, little old body
nooo noo; noo nooo'n nooo noooooooo-nooo. Nooo, n noooo, nooooo noo nooo

like me, should never undertake to wade out into deep waters with tall,
nooo no, nooooo noooo noooooooo no nooo noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo,

heron-built captains; the water chucks you under the chin pretty quick,
noooo-noooo nooooooo; noo noooo nooooo noo noooo noo nooo nooooo noooo,

and there's a great cry for life-boats. And here's the heron's leg!
noo noooo'n n noooo noo noo nooo-noooo. Noo nooo'n noo noooo'n noo!

long and slim, sure enough! Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts
nooo noo nooo, nooo nooooo! Noo, noo nooo noooo noo nooo no nooo noooo

a lifetime, and that must be because they use them mercifully, as a
n nooooooo, noo nooo nooo no noooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooo, no n

tender-hearted old lady uses her roly-poly old coach-horses. But Ahab;
nooooo-noooooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo-nooo noo noooo-nooooo. Noo Nooo;

oh he's a hard driver. Look, driven one leg to death, and spavined the
no no'n n nooo nooooo. Nooo, nooooo noo noo no noooo, noo nooooooo noo

other for life, and now wears out bone legs by the cord. Halloa, there,
noooo noo nooo, noo noo noooo noo nooo nooo no noo nooo. Nooooo, noooo,

you Smut! bear a hand there with those screws, and let's finish it
noo Nooo! nooo n nooo noooo nooo noooo nooooo, noo noo'n nooooo no

before the resurrection fellow comes a-calling with his horn for
nooooo noo nooooooooooo nooooo noooo n-noooooo nooo noo nooo noo

all legs, true or false, as brewery-men go round collecting old beer
noo nooo, nooo no noooo, no noooooo-noo no noooo nooooooooo noo nooo

barrels, to fill 'em up again. What a leg this is! It looks like a real
noooooo, no nooo 'no no noooo. Nooo n noo nooo no! No noooo nooo n nooo

live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he'll be standing on this
nooo noo, noooo nooo no noooooo noo noo nooo; no'no no nooooooo no nooo

to-morrow; he'll be taking altitudes on it. Halloa! I almost forgot the
no-nooooo; no'no no nooooo noooooooo no no. Nooooo! N nooooo nooooo noo

little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the latitude. So,
nooooo nooo noooo, nooooooo noooo, noooo no noooooo no noo nooooooo. No,

so; chisel, file, and sand-paper, now!
no; nooooo, nooo, noo nooo-noooo, noo!










CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin.
NOOOOOO noo. Nooo noo Nooooooo no noo Noooo.







According to usage they were pumping the ship next morning; and lo! no
Noooooooo no noooo nooo nooo noooooo noo nooo nooo noooooo; noo no! no

inconsiderable oil came up with the water; the casks below must have
nooooooooooooo noo nooo no nooo noo noooo; noo noooo noooo nooo nooo

sprung a bad leak. Much concern was shown; and Starbuck went down into
nooooo n noo nooo. Nooo noooooo noo noooo; noo Nooooooo nooo nooo nooo

the cabin to report this unfavourable affair.*
noo noooo no nooooo nooo nooooooooooo nooooo.*







*In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it
*No Noooo-nooooooo nooo noo nooooooooooo nooooooo no noo no noooo, no

is a regular semiweekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench
no n noooooo nooooooooo nooo no noooooo n nooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooooo

the casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying intervals, is
noo noooo nooo noo-noooo; noooo nooooooooo, no noooooo noooooooo, no

removed by the ship's pumps. Hereby the casks are sought to be kept
noooooo no noo nooo'n noooo. Nooooo noo noooo noo nooooo no no nooo

damply tight; while by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the
nooooo noooo; noooo no noo noooooo noooooooo no noo noooooooo noooo, noo

mariners readily detect any serious leakage in the precious cargo.
nooooooo noooooo nooooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo noooo.







Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and
Noo, nooo noo Noooo noo Nooo noo Nooooo noo noooooo nooo no Noooooo noo

the Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from
noo Nooooo Noooo, noooooo noooo nooo noo no noo nooooooo noooooo nooo

the China waters into the Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with
noo Noooo nooooo nooo noo Noooooo. Noo no Nooooooo noooo Nooo nooo

a general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him;
n noooooo noooo no noo nooooooo noooooooooooo nooooo nooooo noo;

and another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the
noo noooooo nooooooo noo nooooooooooo noo nooo noooooo nooooo no noo

Japanese islands--Niphon, Matsmai, and Sikoke. With his snow-white new
Nooooooo noooooo--Nooooo, Noooooo, noo Nooooo. Nooo noo nooo-noooo noo

ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table, and with a long
noooo noo nooooo noooooo noo noooooo noo no noo noooo, noo nooo n nooo

pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his hand, the wondrous old man, with his
noooooo-nooo no n nooo-noooo no noo nooo, noo nooooooo noo noo, nooo noo

back to the gangway door, was wrinkling his brow, and tracing his old
nooo no noo noooooo nooo, noo noooooooo noo nooo, noo noooooo noo noo

courses again.
noooooo noooo.




"Who's there?" hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round
"Noo'n noooo?" noooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo, noo noo noooooo noooo

to it. "On deck! Begone!"
no no. "No nooo! Nooooo!"




"Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir. We
"Noooooo Nooo nooooooo; no no N. Noo noo no noo nooo no noooooo, noo. No

must up Burtons and break out."
nooo no Noooooo noo noooo noo."




"Up Burtons and break out? Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here
"No Noooooo noo noooo noo? Noo nooo no noo noooooo Noooo; noooo-no nooo

for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?"
noo n nooo no nooooo n nooooo no noo noooo?"




"Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good
"Nooooo no nooo, noo, no noooo no noo noo nooo noo nooo no noo nooo nooo

in a year. What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving,
no n nooo. Nooo no nooo nooooo nooooooo noooo no noo no noooo nooooo,

sir."
noo."




"So it is, so it is; if we get it."
"No no no, no no no; no no noo no."




"I was speaking of the oil in the hold, sir."
"N noo nooooooo no noo noo no noo nooo, noo."




"And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all. Begone! Let it leak!
"Noo N noo noo nooooooo no nooooooo no nooo no noo. Nooooo! Noo no nooo!

I'm all aleak myself. Aye! leaks in leaks! not only full of leaky casks,
N'n noo noooo nooooo. Noo! noooo no noooo! noo nooo nooo no noooo noooo,

but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that's a far worse plight
noo noooo noooo noooo noo no n noooo nooo; noo nooo'n n noo noooo nooooo

than the Pequod's, man. Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can
nooo noo Nooooo'n, noo. Noo N noo'n nooo no nooo no nooo; noo noo noo

find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if
nooo no no noo nooo-nooooo nooo; no noo nooo no nooo no, nooo no

found, in this life's howling gale? Starbuck! I'll not have the Burtons
noooo, no nooo nooo'n noooooo nooo? Nooooooo! N'no noo nooo noo Noooooo

hoisted."
noooooo."




"What will the owners say, sir?"
"Nooo nooo noo nooooo noo, noo?"




"Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell the Typhoons. What
"Noo noo nooooo noooo no Noooooooo noooo noo noooooo noo Nooooooo. Nooo

cares Ahab? Owners, owners? Thou art always prating to me, Starbuck,
noooo Nooo? Nooooo, nooooo? Nooo noo nooooo noooooo no no, Nooooooo,

about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my conscience. But
noooo noooo noooooo nooooo, no no noo nooooo nooo no nooooooooo. Noo

look ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander; and hark ye,
nooo no, noo nooo nooo noooo no nooooooo no noo noooooooo; noo nooo no,

my conscience is in this ship's keel.--On deck!"
no nooooooooo no no nooo nooo'n nooo.--No nooo!"




"Captain Ahab," said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin,
"Noooooo Nooo," nooo noo noooooooo nooo, nooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo,

with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost seemed
nooo n nooooo no noooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooo nooo no nooooo nooooo

not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward manifestation
noo nooo noooo noo noooooo no noooo noo noooooooo noooooo noooooooooooo

of itself, but within also seemed more than half distrustful of itself;
no nooooo, noo nooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooo noooooooooo no nooooo;

"A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickly
"N nooooo noo nooo N noooo nooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo no noooo noooooo

enough resent in a younger man; aye, and in a happier, Captain Ahab."
nooooo nooooo no n noooooo noo; noo, noo no n noooooo, Noooooo Nooo."




"Devils! Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?--On
"Nooooo! Nooo nooo nooo no nooo no nooo no nooooooooo noooo no no?--No

deck!"
nooo!"




"Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat. And I do dare, sir--to be forbearing!
"Noo, noo, noo noo; N no noooooo. Noo N no nooo, noo--no no nooooooooo!

Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain Ahab?"
Noooo no noo nooooooooo nooo noooo nooooo nooo nooooooo, Noooooo Nooo?"




Ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most
Nooo nooooo n nooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo (noooooo nooo no nooo

South-Sea-men's cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck,
Noooo-Noo-noo'n noooo noooooooo), noo nooooooo no noooooo Nooooooo,

exclaimed: "There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one
noooooooo: "Noooo no noo Noo nooo no Nooo nooo noo noooo, noo noo

Captain that is lord over the Pequod.--On deck!"
Noooooo nooo no nooo nooo noo Nooooo.--No nooo!"




For an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate, and his fiery cheeks,
Noo no noooooo no noo nooooooo nooo no noo nooo, noo noo noooo nooooo,

you would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze of
noo noooo nooo nooooo noooooo nooo no noo nooooo nooooooo noo noooo no

the levelled tube. But, mastering his emotion, he half calmly rose,
noo nooooooo nooo. Noo, noooooooo noo noooooo, no nooo nooooo nooo,

and as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and said: "Thou hast
noo no no noooooo noo noooo, nooooo noo no noooooo noo nooo: "Nooo nooo

outraged, not insulted me, sir; but for that I ask thee not to beware of
nooooooo, noo nooooooo no, noo; noo noo nooo N noo nooo noo no nooooo no

Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab; beware of
Nooooooo; nooo noooooo noo noooo; noo noo Nooo nooooo no Nooo; nooooo no

thyself, old man."
noooooo, noo noo."




"He waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most careful bravery that!"
"No noooo noooo, noo nooooooooooo noooo; nooo noooooo noooooo nooo!"

murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared. "What's that he said--Ahab
nooooooo Nooo, no Nooooooo noooooooooo. "Nooo'n nooo no nooo--Nooo

beware of Ahab--there's something there!" Then unconsciously using the
nooooo no Nooo--noooo'n noooooooo noooo!" Nooo noooooooooooo noooo noo

musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the little
nooooo noo n noooo, nooo no nooo nooo no noooo no noo noo no noo nooooo

cabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and
noooo; noo noooooooo noo noooo nooooo no noo nooooooo noooooo, noo

returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.
noooooooo noo noo no noo nooo, no nooo no noo nooo.




"Thou art but too good a fellow, Starbuck," he said lowly to the mate;
"Nooo noo noo noo nooo n nooooo, Nooooooo," no nooo noooo no noo nooo;

then raising his voice to the crew: "Furl the t'gallant-sails, and
nooo noooooo noo noooo no noo nooo: "Nooo noo n'noooooo-noooo, noo

close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft; back the main-yard; up Burton,
noooo-nooo noo noo-noooo, nooo noo noo; nooo noo nooo-nooo; no Nooooo,

and break out in the main-hold."
noo noooo noo no noo nooo-nooo."




It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting
No nooo noooooo nooo no noooooo noooooo noo no noo, nooo no nooooooooo

Starbuck, Ahab thus acted. It may have been a flash of honesty in him;
Nooooooo, Nooo nooo noooo. No noo nooo nooo n noooo no noooooo no noo;

or mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously
no nooo nooooooooo nooooo noooo, noooo noo nooooooooooo, noooooooooo

forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient,
noooooo noo noooooooo noooooo no nooo nooooooooooo, noooooo noooooooo,

in the important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders
no noo noooooooo noooo noooooo no noo nooo. Noooooo no noo, noo nooooo

were executed; and the Burtons were hoisted.
nooo nooooooo; noo noo Noooooo nooo noooooo.










CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.
NOOOOOO noo. Nooooooo no Noo Nooooo.







Upon searching, it was found that the casks last struck into the hold
Nooo noooooooo, no noo noooo nooo noo noooo nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo

were perfectly sound, and that the leak must be further off. So, it
nooo noooooooo noooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooo no noooooo noo. No, no

being calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the
noooo nooo noooooo, nooo noooo noo nooooo noo nooooo, nooooooooo noo

slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight
nooooooo no noo nooo nooooo-nooo noooo; noo nooo nooo noooo nooooooo

sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did they
noooooo noooo nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo. No nooo noo nooo

go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermost
no; noo no noooooo, noo nooooooo, noo noooo noo nooooo no noo noooooooo

puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone cask
noooooooo, nooo noo nooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooooo nooooo-noooo nooo

containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards,
nooooooooo noooo no Noooooo Nooo, nooo nooooo no noo nooooo nooooooo,

vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood. Tierce after
nooooo noooooo noo nooooooooo noo noooo nooo noo noooo. Nooooo noooo

tierce, too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of staves, and
nooooo, noo, no noooo, noo noooo, noo nooo, noo nooooo no nooooo, noo

iron bundles of hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the piled decks
nooo noooooo no noooo, nooo noooooo noo, nooo no nooo noo noooo noooo

were hard to get about; and the hollow hull echoed under foot, as if
nooo nooo no noo noooo; noo noo nooooo nooo nooooo noooo nooo, no no

you were treading over empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea
noo nooo nooooooo nooo noooo noooooooo, noo nooooo noo nooooo no noo noo

like an air-freighted demijohn. Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless
nooo no noo-noooooooo nooooooo. Noo-noooo noo noo nooo no n nooooooooo

student with all Aristotle in his head. Well was it that the Typhoons
noooooo nooo noo Noooooooo no noo nooo. Nooo noo no nooo noo Nooooooo

did not visit them then.
noo noo noooo nooo nooo.




Now, at this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast
Noo, no nooo nooo no noo nooo no nooo noooo noooooooo, noo nooo

bosom-friend, Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh
noooo-nooooo, Nooooooo, noo nooooo nooo n noooo, noooo noooooo noo nooo

to his endless end.
no noo noooooo noo.




Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown;
No no nooo, nooo no nooo nooooooo no noooooo, noooooooo noo noooooo;

dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the
noooooo noo nooooo no nooo no nooo; nooo noo noo no no Noooooo, noo

higher you rise the harder you toil. So with poor Queequeg, who, as
nooooo noo nooo noo nooooo noo nooo. No nooo nooo Nooooooo, noo, no

harpooneer, must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but--as
nooooooooo, nooo noo nooo nooo noo noo nooo no noo nooooo noooo, noo--no

we have elsewhere seen--mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and
no nooo noooooooo nooo--noooo noo nooo nooo no n noooooo noo; noo

finally descend into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating
noooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo

all day in that subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the
noo noo no nooo noooooooooooo noooooooooo, nooooooooo noooooooo noo

clumsiest casks and see to their stowage. To be short, among whalemen,
noooooooo noooo noo noo no noooo noooooo. No no noooo, noooo nooooooo,

the harpooneers are the holders, so called.
noo noooooooooo noo noo noooooo, no nooooo.




Poor Queequeg! when the ship was about half disembowelled, you should
Nooo Nooooooo! nooo noo nooo noo noooo nooo noooooooooooo, noo nooooo

have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down upon him there; where,
nooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo, noo nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo; noooo,

stripped to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage was crawling about
nooooooo no noo noooooo noooooo, noo nooooooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo

amid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard at the bottom
nooo nooo nooooooo noo noooo, nooo n noooo noooooo nooooo no noo nooooo

of a well. And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to him, poor
no n nooo. Noo n nooo, no no noo-noooo, no noooooo nooooo no noo, nooo

pagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings, he
noooo; noooo, noooooo no noo, noo noo noo nooo no noo noooooooo, no

caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after
nooooo n nooooooo noooo noooo nooooo nooo n noooo; noo no nooo, noooo

some days' suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill
nooo nooo' noooooooo, nooo noo no noo noooooo, noooo no noo nooo nooo

of the door of death. How he wasted and wasted away in those few
no noo nooo no noooo. Noo no nooooo noo nooooo nooo no noooo noo

long-lingering days, till there seemed but little left of him but his
nooo-noooooooo nooo, nooo noooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo no noo noo noo

frame and tattooing. But as all else in him thinned, and his cheek-bones
noooo noo noooooooo. Noo no noo nooo no noo noooooo, noo noo noooo-noooo

grew sharper, his eyes, nevertheless, seemed growing fuller and fuller;
nooo noooooo, noo nooo, nooooooooooo, nooooo noooooo nooooo noo nooooo;

they became of a strange softness of lustre; and mildly but deeply
nooo nooooo no n noooooo nooooooo no nooooo; noo nooooo noo nooooo

looked out at you there from his sickness, a wondrous testimony to that
nooooo noo no noo noooo nooo noo nooooooo, n nooooooo noooooooo no nooo

immortal health in him which could not die, or be weakened. And like
nooooooo nooooo no noo noooo noooo noo noo, no no nooooooo. Noo nooo

circles on the water, which, as they grow fainter, expand; so his eyes
noooooo no noo noooo, noooo, no nooo nooo noooooo, nooooo; no noo nooo

seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of Eternity. An awe that
nooooo nooooooo noo nooooooo, nooo noo noooo no Nooooooo. No noo nooo

cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side of this
nooooo no noooo noooo noooo nooo noo no noo noo no noo nooo no nooo

waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any beheld who
nooooo nooooo, noo noo no noooooo nooooo no noo nooo, no noo nooooo noo

were bystanders when Zoroaster died. For whatever is truly wondrous and
nooo nooooooooo nooo Noooooooo nooo. Noo nooooooo no noooo nooooooo noo

fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. And the drawing
noooooo no noo, noooo noo noo noo nooo noooo no noooo. Noo noo noooooo

near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all with a last
nooo no Noooo, noooo noooo nooooo noo, noooo noooooooo noo nooo n nooo

revelation, which only an author from the dead could adequately tell.
nooooooooo, noooo nooo no nooooo nooo noo nooo noooo nooooooooo nooo.

So that--let us say it again--no dying Chaldee or Greek had higher and
No nooo--noo no noo no noooo--no noooo Noooooo no Noooo noo nooooo noo

holier thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you saw creeping
nooooo nooooooo nooo noooo, noooo nooooooooo nooooo noo noo nooooooo

over the face of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his swaying
nooo noo nooo no nooo Nooooooo, no no noooooo noo no noo noooooo

hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his final
noooooo, noo noo noooooo noo nooooo nooooo noooooo noo no noo noooo

rest, and the ocean's invisible flood-tide lifted him higher and higher
nooo, noo noo noooo'n noooooooo noooo-nooo nooooo noo nooooo noo nooooo

towards his destined heaven.
noooooo noo nooooooo nooooo.




Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself,
Noo n noo no noo nooo noo nooo noo no; noo, no noo Nooooooo noooooo,

what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he
nooo no noooooo no noo nooo noo nooooooo noooo no n noooooo nooooo no

asked. He called one to him in the grey morning watch, when the day was
noooo. No nooooo noo no noo no noo nooo noooooo noooo, nooo noo noo noo

just breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he
nooo nooooooo, noo nooooo noo nooo, nooo nooo noooo no Noooooooo no

had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like the rich
noo noooooo no noo noooooo nooooo nooooo no nooo nooo, nooo noo nooo

war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had learned that all
noo-nooo no noo nooooo nooo; noo nooo noooooo, no noo noooooo nooo noo

whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same dark canoes,
nooooooo noo nooo no Noooooooo, nooo nooo no noooo nooo nooo nooooo,

and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it was not
noo nooo noo noooo no noooo no nooo noo nooo noooooo noo; noo no noo noo

unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead warrior,
nooooo noo nooooo no noo noo nooo, noo, noooo noooooooo n nooo noooooo,

stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated away to
noooooooo noo noo no noo noooo, noo no nooo noo no no noooooo nooo no

the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the stars
noo nooooo noooooooooooo; noo noo nooo no nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo

are isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own mild,
noo noooo, noo nooo noo nooooo noo noooooo nooooooo, noooo noo nooo,

uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form the
noooooooooooo nooo, noooooooo nooo noo nooo noooooo; noo no nooo noo

white breakers of the milky way. He added, that he shuddered at
noooo nooooooo no noo noooo noo. No noooo, nooo no noooooooo no

the thought of being buried in his hammock, according to the usual
noo noooooo no noooo nooooo no noo noooooo, noooooooo no noo noooo

sea-custom, tossed like something vile to the death-devouring sharks.
noo-nooooo, nooooo nooo noooooooo nooo no noo noooo-noooooooo nooooo.

No: he desired a canoe like those of Nantucket, all the more congenial
No: no noooooo n noooo nooo noooo no Noooooooo, noo noo nooo noooooooo

to him, being a whaleman, that like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes
no noo, noooo n nooooooo, nooo nooo n noooo-nooo noooo nooooo-nooooo

were without a keel; though that involved but uncertain steering, and
nooo noooooo n nooo; nooooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo, noo

much lee-way adown the dim ages.
nooo noo-noo noooo noo noo nooo.




Now, when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter
Noo, nooo nooo noooooo nooooooooooo noo nooo noooo noo, noo noooooooo

was at once commanded to do Queequeg's bidding, whatever it might
noo no nooo noooooooo no no Nooooooo'n noooooo, nooooooo no noooo

include. There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard,
noooooo. Noooo noo nooo nooooooooo, nooooo-nooooooo noo nooooo nooooo,

which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal
noooo, nooo n nooo nooooooo nooooo, noo nooo noo nooo noo nooooooooo

groves of the Lackaday islands, and from these dark planks the coffin
nooooo no noo Nooooooo noooooo, noo nooo noooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo

was recommended to be made. No sooner was the carpenter apprised of
noo noooooooooo no no nooo. No nooooo noo noo noooooooo nooooooo no

the order, than taking his rule, he forthwith with all the indifferent
noo noooo, nooo nooooo noo nooo, no noooooooo nooo noo noo noooooooooo

promptitude of his character, proceeded into the forecastle and took
noooooooooo no noo noooooooo, noooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo noo nooo

Queequeg's measure with great accuracy, regularly chalking Queequeg's
Nooooooo'n noooooo nooo noooo nooooooo, noooooooo nooooooo Nooooooo'n

person as he shifted the rule.
nooooo no no noooooo noo nooo.




"Ah! poor fellow! he'll have to die now," ejaculated the Long Island
"No! nooo nooooo! no'no nooo no noo noo," nooooooooo noo Nooo Nooooo

sailor.
nooooo.




Going to his vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience sake and general
Noooo no noo nooo-noooo, noo noooooooo noo noooooooooo nooo noo noooooo

reference, now transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin
noooooooo, noo nooooooooooooo nooooooo no no noo noooo nooooo noo nooooo

was to be, and then made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches
noo no no, noo nooo nooo noo nooooooo noooooooo no noooooo noo noooooo

at its extremities. This done, he marshalled the planks and his tools,
no noo noooooooooo. Nooo nooo, no nooooooooo noo nooooo noo noo noooo,

and to work.
noo no nooo.




When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted,
Nooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooo, noo noo noo nooo nooooo noo nooooo,

he lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring
no noooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo noo nooo noooooo nooo no, noooooooo

whether they were ready for it yet in that direction.
noooooo nooo nooo noooo noo no noo no nooo noooooooo.




Overhearing the indignant but half-humorous cries with which the
Noooooooooo noo noooooooo noo nooo-nooooooo noooo nooo noooo noo

people on deck began to drive the coffin away, Queequeg, to every one's
nooooo no nooo noooo no noooo noo nooooo nooo, Nooooooo, no noooo noo'n

consternation, commanded that the thing should be instantly brought to
noooooooooooo, noooooooo nooo noo noooo nooooo no noooooooo noooooo no

him, nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of all mortals, some
noo, noo noo noooo noo noooooo noo; nooooo nooo, no noo noooooo, nooo

dying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they will
noooo noo noo noo nooo nooooooooo; noo noooooooo, noooo nooo nooo

shortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be
noooooo noooooo no no nooooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo noooooo noooo no no

indulged.
nooooooo.




Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin with
Noooooo nooo no noo noooooo, Nooooooo nooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo

an attentive eye. He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock
no noooooooo noo. No nooo nooooo noo noo noooooo, noo noo nooooo noooo

drawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along
noooo nooo no, noo nooo noo noo nooo nooo nooooo no noo nooooo noooo

with one of the paddles of his boat. All by his own request, also,
nooo noo no noo noooooo no noo nooo. Noo no noo noo noooooo, nooo,

biscuits were then ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh water
nooooooo nooo nooo nooooo noooo noo noooo nooooo: n noooo no noooo noooo

was placed at the head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in
noo nooooo no noo nooo, noo n noooo noo no noooo noooo noooooo no no

the hold at the foot; and a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a
noo nooo no noo nooo; noo n noooo no nooo-noooo noooo nooooo no noo n

pillow, Queequeg now entreated to be lifted into his final bed, that he
nooooo, Nooooooo noo noooooooo no no nooooo nooo noo noooo noo, nooo no

might make trial of its comforts, if any it had. He lay without moving
noooo nooo noooo no noo nooooooo, no noo no noo. No noo noooooo nooooo

a few minutes, then told one to go to his bag and bring out his little
n noo noooooo, nooo nooo noo no no no noo noo noo noooo noo noo nooooo

god, Yojo. Then crossing his arms on his breast with Yojo between, he
noo, Nooo. Nooo nooooooo noo nooo no noo nooooo nooo Nooo noooooo, no

called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be placed over him.
nooooo noo noo nooooo noo (noooo no nooooo no) no no nooooo nooo noo.

The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there lay Queequeg
Noo nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo n noooooo noooo, noo noooo noo Nooooooo

in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view. "Rarmai"
no noo nooooo nooo nooooo noo noo nooooooo noooooooooo no nooo. "Nooooo"

(it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and signed to be replaced
(no nooo no; no no nooo), no nooooooo no nooo, noo nooooo no no nooooooo

in his hammock.
no noo noooooo.




But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily hovering near by all this
Noo noo nooo noo nooo, Noo, noo noo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo no noo nooo

while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with soft sobbings, took him
noooo, nooo nooo no noo noooo no noo, noo nooo nooo nooooooo, nooo noo

by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.
no noo nooo; no noo noooo, noooooo noo nooooooooo.




"Poor rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? where
"Nooo noooo! nooo no noooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooo noooo nooooo? noooo

go ye now? But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where
no no noo? Noo no noo nooooooo noooo no no noooo noooo Nooooooo noooo

the beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little
noo noooooo noo nooo nooo nooo noooo-nooooo, nooo no no noo nooooo

errand for me? Seek out one Pip, who's now been missing long: I think
nooooo noo no? Nooo noo noo Noo, noo'n noo nooo noooooo nooo: N noooo

he's in those far Antilles. If ye find him, then comfort him; for he
no'n no noooo noo Nooooooo. No no nooo noo, nooo noooooo noo; noo no

must be very sad; for look! he's left his tambourine behind;--I found
nooo no nooo noo; noo nooo! no'n nooo noo nooooooooo nooooo;--N noooo

it. Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I'll beat ye your dying
no. Noo-n-noo, noo, noo! Noo, Nooooooo, noo; noo N'no nooo no nooo noooo

march."
noooo."




"I have heard," murmured Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, "that in
"N nooo noooo," nooooooo Nooooooo, nooooo nooo noo noooooo, "nooo no

violent fevers, men, all ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues;
noooooo nooooo, noo, noo noooooooo, nooo nooooo no noooooo noooooo;

and that when the mystery is probed, it turns out always that in their
noo nooo nooo noo noooooo no nooooo, no noooo noo nooooo nooo no noooo

wholly forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really spoken
nooooo noooooooo noooooooo noooo noooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo nooooo

in their hearing by some lofty scholars. So, to my fond faith, poor Pip,
no noooo noooooo no nooo noooo nooooooo. No, no no nooo noooo, nooo Noo,

in this strange sweetness of his lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers of all
no nooo noooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo, nooooo nooooooo nooooooo no noo

our heavenly homes. Where learned he that, but there?--Hark! he speaks
noo nooooooo noooo. Noooo noooooo no nooo, noo noooo?--Nooo! no nooooo

again: but more wildly now."
noooo: noo nooo nooooo noo."




"Form two and two! Let's make a General of him! Ho, where's his harpoon?
"Nooo noo noo noo! Noo'n nooo n Noooooo no noo! No, noooo'n noo noooooo?

Lay it across here.--Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzza! Oh for a game cock
Noo no nooooo nooo.--Noo-n-noo, noo, noo! noooo! No noo n nooo nooo

now to sit upon his head and crow! Queequeg dies game!--mind ye that;
noo no noo nooo noo nooo noo nooo! Nooooooo nooo nooo!--nooo no nooo;

Queequeg dies game!--take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies game! I
Nooooooo nooo nooo!--nooo no nooo nooo no nooo; Nooooooo nooo nooo! N

say; game, game, game! but base little Pip, he died a coward; died all
noo; nooo, nooo, nooo! noo nooo nooooo Noo, no nooo n nooooo; nooo noo

a'shiver;--out upon Pip! Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the Antilles
n'nooooo;--noo nooo Noo! Nooo no; no no nooo Noo, nooo noo noo Nooooooo

he's a runaway; a coward, a coward, a coward! Tell them he jumped from
no'n n noooooo; n nooooo, n nooooo, n nooooo! Nooo nooo no nooooo nooo

a whale-boat! I'd never beat my tambourine over base Pip, and hail
n noooo-nooo! N'n noooo nooo no nooooooooo nooo nooo Noo, noo nooo

him General, if he were once more dying here. No, no! shame upon all
noo Noooooo, no no nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo. No, no! noooo nooo noo

cowards--shame upon them! Let 'em go drown like Pip, that jumped from a
noooooo--noooo nooo nooo! Noo 'no no noooo nooo Noo, nooo nooooo nooo n

whale-boat. Shame! shame!"
noooo-nooo. Noooo! noooo!"




During all this, Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream. Pip
Nooooo noo nooo, Nooooooo noo nooo nooooo nooo, no no no n noooo. Noo

was led away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock.
noo noo nooo, noo noo nooo noo noo nooooooo no noo noooooo.




But now that he had apparently made every preparation for death; now
Noo noo nooo no noo nooooooooo nooo noooo noooooooooo noo noooo; noo

that his coffin was proved a good fit, Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon
nooo noo nooooo noo nooooo n nooo noo, Nooooooo nooooooo noooooo; nooo

there seemed no need of the carpenter's box: and thereupon, when some
noooo nooooo no nooo no noo noooooooo'n noo: noo noooooooo, nooo nooo

expressed their delighted surprise, he, in substance, said, that the
noooooooo noooo noooooooo nooooooo, no, no noooooooo, nooo, nooo noo

cause of his sudden convalescence was this;--at a critical moment, he
noooo no noo nooooo noooooooooooo noo nooo;--no n nooooooo nooooo, no

had just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was leaving undone;
noo nooo nooooooo n nooooo nooo nooooo, noooo no noo noooooo nooooo;

and therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not die yet,
noo noooooooo noo noooooo noo nooo noooo noooo: no noooo noo noo noo,

he averred. They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a matter of
no noooooo. Nooo noooo noo, nooo, noooooo no nooo no noo noo n nooooo no

his own sovereign will and pleasure. He answered, certainly. In a word,
noo noo noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo. No nooooooo, noooooooo. No n nooo,

it was Queequeg's conceit, that if a man made up his mind to live, mere
no noo Nooooooo'n noooooo, nooo no n noo nooo no noo nooo no nooo, nooo

sickness could not kill him: nothing but a whale, or a gale, or some
nooooooo noooo noo nooo noo: noooooo noo n noooo, no n nooo, no nooo

violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of that sort.
noooooo, nooooooooooo, noooooooooooo noooooooo no nooo nooo.




Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized;
Noo, noooo no nooo nooooooooo nooooooooo noooooo nooooo noo noooooooo;

that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing,
nooo noooo n nooo, noooooooo noo noo no noo nooooo nooooooooooo,

generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day.
noooooooo nooooooo, n nooo nooooo no nooooo nooo-nooo noooo no n noo.

So, in good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after
No, no nooo nooo no Nooooooo nooooo nooooooo; noo no nooooo noooo

sitting on the windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a
noooooo no noo nooooooo noo n noo nooooooo nooo (noo nooooo nooo n

vigorous appetite) he suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out his arms
nooooooo nooooooo) no nooooooo nooooo no noo nooo, noooo noo noo nooo

and legs, gave himself a good stretching, yawned a little bit, and then
noo nooo, nooo noooooo n nooo nooooooooo, nooooo n nooooo noo, noo nooo

springing into the head of his hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon,
noooooooo nooo noo nooo no noo noooooo nooo, noo noooooo n noooooo,

pronounced himself fit for a fight.
nooooooooo noooooo noo noo n noooo.




With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and
Nooo n nooo nooooooooo, no noo nooo noo nooooo noo n noo-noooo; noo

emptying into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there.
nooooooo nooo no noo nooooo noo no noooooo, noo nooo no noooo noooo.

Many spare hours he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of
Nooo noooo noooo no noooo, no noooooo noo noo nooo noo nooooo no

grotesque figures and drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was
noooooooo noooooo noo nooooooo; noo no nooooo nooo nooooo no noo

striving, in his rude way, to copy parts of the twisted tattooing on
nooooooo, no noo nooo noo, no nooo noooo no noo noooooo noooooooo no

his body. And this tattooing had been the work of a departed prophet and
noo nooo. Noo nooo noooooooo noo nooo noo nooo no n nooooooo noooooo noo

seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had written out on
nooo no noo nooooo, noo, no noooo nooooooooooo noooo, noo noooooo noo no

his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth, and a mystical
noo nooo n nooooooo nooooo no noo noooooo noo noo noooo, noo n nooooooo

treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that Queequeg in his own
nooooooo no noo noo no noooooooo noooo; no nooo Nooooooo no noo noo

proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in one volume; but
nooooo nooooo noo n nooooo no nooooo; n nooooooo nooo no noo nooooo; noo

whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own live heart
noooo noooooooo noo nooo noooooo noooo nooo, nooooo noo noo nooo noooo

beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore destined in
nooo noooooo nooo; noo noooo noooooooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo no

the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were
noo noo no noooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo noooooooo noooooo nooo nooo

inscribed, and so be unsolved to the last. And this thought it must
noooooooo, noo no no nooooooo no noo nooo. Noo nooo noooooo no nooo

have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his, when
nooo nooo noooo noooooooo no Nooo nooo nooo noooooooooo no noo, nooo

one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg--"Oh, devilish
noo noooooo noooooo nooo nooo noooooooo nooo Nooooooo--"No, nooooooo

tantalization of the gods!"
noooooooooooo no noo nooo!"










CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noooooo.







When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great South
Nooo noooooo no noo Nooooo noooo no noooooo no nooo nooo noo noooo Noooo

Sea; were it not for other things, I could have greeted my dear Pacific
Noo; nooo no noo noo noooo nooooo, N noooo nooo noooooo no nooo Noooooo

with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of my youth was
nooo noooooooo nooooo, noo noo noo nooo nooooooooooo no no noooo noo

answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a thousand leagues
nooooooo; nooo nooooo noooo nooooo noooooooo nooo no n nooooooo noooooo

of blue.
no nooo.




There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently
Noooo no, noo noooo noo nooo noooo noooooo noooo nooo noo, noooo nooooo

awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath; like those
noooo noooooooo nooo no noooo no nooo nooooo nooo noooooo; nooo noooo

fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried Evangelist St.
nooooo noooooooooo no noo Nooooooo noo nooo noo nooooo Nooooooooo No.

John. And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures, wide-rolling watery
Nooo. Noo nooo no no, nooo nooo noooo noo-nooooooo, nooo-noooooo nooooo

prairies and Potters' Fields of all four continents, the waves should
nooooooo noo Noooooo' Nooooo no noo nooo nooooooooo, noo noooo nooooo

rise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions of mixed
nooo noo nooo, noo noo noo nooo noooooooooo; noo nooo, nooooooo no noooo

shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all that
nooooo noo noooooo, noooooo nooooo, noooooooooooo, nooooooo; noo nooo

we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing like
no nooo noooo noo noooo, noo nooooooo, nooooooo, noooo; noooooo nooo

slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their
nooooooooo no noooo nooo; noo nooo-noooooo noooo noo nooo no no noooo

restlessness.
nooooooooooo.




To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once beheld, must
No noo nooooooooo Nooooo noooo, nooo nooooo Noooooo, nooo nooooo, nooo

ever after be the sea of his adoption. It rolls the midmost waters of
nooo noooo no noo noo no noo nooooooo. No noooo noo noooooo nooooo no

the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms. The same
noo noooo, noo Nooooo noooo noo Nooooooo noooo noo noo nooo. Noo nooo

waves wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday
noooo nooo noo noooo no noo noo-noooo Noooooooooo noooo, noo noooooooo

planted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still
noooooo no noo noooooooo nooo no noo, noo nooo noo noooo noo noooo

gorgeous skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between
nooooooo nooooo no Noooooo noooo, noooo nooo Noooooo; noooo noo noooooo

float milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown
noooo noooo-nooo no noooo noooo, noo noo-noooo, noooooo, noooooo

Archipelagoes, and impenetrable Japans. Thus this mysterious, divine
Noooooooooooo, noo nooooooooooo Nooooo. Nooo nooo nooooooooo, nooooo

Pacific zones the world's whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay
Noooooo noooo noo noooo'n noooo nooo noooo; noooo noo nooooo noo noo

to it; seems the tide-beating heart of earth. Lifted by those eternal
no no; noooo noo nooo-noooooo noooo no noooo. Nooooo no noooo noooooo

swells, you needs must own the seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.
nooooo, noo noooo nooo noo noo noooooooo noo, nooooo nooo nooo no Noo.




But few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab's brain, as standing like an
Noo noo nooooooo no Noo noooooo Nooo'n noooo, no nooooooo nooo no

iron statue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging, with one
nooo nooooo no noo nooooooooo noooo nooooo noo noooo noooooo, nooo noo

nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles
noooooo no nooooooooooo noooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noo Nooooo noooo

(in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with the other
(no noooo noooo noooo nooo nooooo nooo no noooooo), noo nooo noo noooo

consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea in
noooooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo no noo noo noooo noo; nooo noo no

which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming. Launched at
noooo noo noooo Noooo Noooo nooo nooo nooo no nooooooo. Nooooooo no

length upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese
nooooo nooo noooo nooooo noooo nooooo, noo noooooo noooooo noo Nooooooo

cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself. His firm lips
nooooooo-nooooo, noo noo noo'n noooooo noooooooooo nooooo. Noo nooo nooo

met like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead's veins swelled
noo nooo noo nooo no n nooo; noo Noooo no noo nooooooo'n noooo noooooo

like overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran through
nooo noooooooo nooooo; no noo nooo noooo, noo noooooo noo noo noooooo

the vaulted hull, "Stern all! the White Whale spouts thick blood!"
noo noooooo nooo, "Noooo noo! noo Noooo Noooo nooooo noooo noooo!"










CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooooooo.







Availing himself of the mild, summer-cool weather that now reigned in
Nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo, nooooo-nooo noooooo nooo noo noooooo no

these latitudes, and in preparation for the peculiarly active
noooo noooooooo, noo no noooooooooo noo noo nooooooooo nooooo

pursuits shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the begrimed, blistered old
nooooooo noooooo no no noooooooooo, Noooo, noo nooooooo, noooooooo noo

blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to the hold again, after
nooooooooo, noo noo noooooo noo nooooooo noooo no noo nooo noooo, noooo

concluding his contributory work for Ahab's leg, but still retained
nooooooooo noo nooooooooooo nooo noo Nooo'n noo, noo noooo nooooooo

it on deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being now almost
no no nooo, nooo nooooo no noooooooo no noo nooooooo; noooo noo nooooo

incessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen to do
noooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooooo, noo noooooooooo, noo noooooo no no

some little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their
nooo nooooo noo noo nooo; nooooooo, no noooooooo, no noo noooooo noooo

various weapons and boat furniture. Often he would be surrounded by an
noooooo noooooo noo nooo noooooooo. Noooo no noooo no nooooooooo no no

eager circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads,
noooo nooooo, noo noooooo no no nooooo; noooooo nooo-nooooo, nooo-noooo,

harpoons, and lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement,
nooooooo, noo nooooo, noo noooooooo nooooooo noo noooo noooo nooooooo,

as he toiled. Nevertheless, this old man's was a patient hammer wielded
no no nooooo. Nooooooooooo, nooo noo noo'n noo n noooooo nooooo noooooo

by a patient arm. No murmur, no impatience, no petulance did come from
no n noooooo noo. No nooooo, no nooooooooo, no noooooooo noo nooo nooo

him. Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing over still further his chronically
noo. Nooooo, nooo, noo nooooo; nooooo nooo noooo noooooo noo noooooooooo

broken back, he toiled away, as if toil were life itself, and the
nooooo nooo, no nooooo nooo, no no nooo nooo nooo nooooo, noo noo

heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating of his heart. And so it
noooo noooooo no noo nooooo noo noooo noooooo no noo noooo. Noo no no

was.--Most miserable!
noo.--Nooo noooooooo!




A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing
N nooooooo nooo no nooo noo noo, n noooooo nooooo noo noooooo noooooooo

yawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the
nooooo no noo nooo, noo no no noooo nooooo no noo nooooo noooooo noo

curiosity of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persisted
noooooooo no noo nooooooo. Noo no noo noooooooooo no noooo noooooooo

questionings he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that every
nooooooooooo no noo noooooo noooo no; noo no no nooo no nooo nooo noooo

one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate.
noo noo nooo noo nooooooo noooo no noo nooooooo nooo.




Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter's midnight, on the road
Noooooo, noo noo nooooooooo, noo nooooo nooooo'n nooooooo, no noo nooo

running between two country towns, the blacksmith half-stupidly felt
noooooo noooooo noo noooooo noooo, noo nooooooooo nooo-nooooooo nooo

the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning,
noo nooooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo noo, noo nooooo nooooo no n noooooo,

dilapidated barn. The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both
noooooooooo nooo. Noo noooo noo, noo nooo no noo noooooooooo no nooo

feet. Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four
nooo. Noo no nooo nooooooooo, nooo no nooo, no nooo nooo noo noo nooo

acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied fifth
nooo no noo nooooooo, noo noo noo nooo, noo no noo noooooooooooooo noooo

act of the grief of his life's drama.
noo no noo noooo no noo nooo'n noooo.




He was an old man, who, at the age of nearly sixty, had postponedly
No noo no noo noo, noo, no noo noo no nooooo noooo, noo noooooooooo

encountered that thing in sorrow's technicals called ruin. He had been
noooooooooo nooo noooo no nooooo'n nooooooooo nooooo nooo. No noo nooo

an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to do; owned a house
no noooooo no noooo nooooooooo, noo nooo nooooo no no; noooo n noooo

and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving wife, and three
noo nooooo; nooooooo n nooooooo, nooooooo-nooo, nooooo nooo, noo noooo

blithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a cheerful-looking church,
nooooo, noooo nooooooo; noooo Nooooo nooo no n nooooooo-noooooo nooooo,

planted in a grove. But one night, under cover of darkness, and further
noooooo no n noooo. Noo noo noooo, noooo noooo no nooooooo, noo noooooo

concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate burglar slid into
noooooooo no n nooo noooooo nooooooooooo, n noooooooo noooooo nooo nooo

his happy home, and robbed them all of everything. And darker yet to
noo noooo nooo, noo nooooo nooo noo no nooooooooo. Noo nooooo noo no

tell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into
nooo, noo nooooooooo noooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo nooo noooooo nooo

his family's heart. It was the Bottle Conjuror! Upon the opening of that
noo nooooo'n noooo. No noo noo Nooooo Nooooooo! Nooo noo noooooo no nooo

fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home. Now, for
noooo nooo, noooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooooooooo no noo nooo. Noo, noo

prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith's shop was in
noooooo, nooo nooo, noo nooooooo noooooo, noo nooooooooo'n nooo noo no

the basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so
noo nooooooo no noo nooooooo, noo nooo n nooooooo nooooooo no no; no

that always had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no
nooo nooooo noo noo noooo noo nooooo noooooo nooo nooooooo nooo no

unhappy nervousness, but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing of
noooooo noooooooooo, noo nooo nooooooo nooooooo, no noo noooo noooooo no

her young-armed old husband's hammer; whose reverberations, muffled by
noo noooo-noooo noo noooooo'n nooooo; noooo nooooooooooooo, noooooo no

passing through the floors and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly,
noooooo noooooo noo nooooo noo noooo, nooo no no noo, noo noooooooo,

in her nursery; and so, to stout Labor's iron lullaby, the blacksmith's
no noo noooooo; noo no, no noooo Noooo'n nooo noooooo, noo nooooooooo'n

infants were rocked to slumber.
noooooo nooo nooooo no noooooo.




Oh, woe on woe! Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely? Hadst
No, noo no noo! No, Noooo, noo noooo nooo noo noooooooo no nooooo? Noooo

thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon
nooo noooo nooo noo nooooooooo no noooooo noo noo nooo nooo nooo nooo

him, then had the young widow had a delicious grief, and her orphans a
noo, nooo noo noo noooo noooo noo n noooooooo noooo, noo noo noooooo n

truly venerable, legendary sire to dream of in their after years; and
noooo noooooooo, noooooooo nooo no noooo no no noooo noooo noooo; noo

all of them a care-killing competency. But Death plucked down some
noo no nooo n nooo-noooooo nooooooooo. Noo Noooo noooooo nooo nooo

virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil solely hung the
nooooooo noooo noooooo, no noooo noooooooo noooo nooo nooooo nooo noo

responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse than useless
nooooooooooooooo no nooo noooo nooooo, noo nooo noo noooo nooo noooooo

old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him easier to
noo noo nooooooo, nooo noo noooooo noo no nooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo no

harvest.
noooooo.




Why tell the whole? The blows of the basement hammer every day grew more
Noo nooo noo noooo? Noo noooo no noo nooooooo nooooo noooo noo nooo nooo

and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter than the last;
noo nooo noooooo; noo nooo nooo noooo noo nooo noooooo nooo noo nooo;

the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes, glitteringly
noo nooo noo nooooo no noo nooooo, nooo nooooooo nooo, nooooooooooo

gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows fell; the
nooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo no noo nooooooo; noo noooooo nooo; noo

forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother dived
noooo nooooo no nooo noooooo; noo noooo noo nooo; noo nooooo noooo

down into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followed her
nooo nooo noo nooo nooooo-nooo noooo; noo nooooooo noooo nooooooo noo

thither; and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond
noooooo; noo noo noooooooo, nooooooooo noo noo noooooooo noo n nooooooo

in crape; his every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to flaxen
no noooo; noo noooo noo nooooooooooo; noo nooo nooo n noooo no nooooo

curls!
noooo!




Death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death
Noooo noooo noo nooo noooooooo nooooo noo n nooooo nooo nooo; noo Noooo

is only a launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but
no nooo n noooooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo Noooooo; no no noo

the first salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the
noo noooo nooooooooo no noo noooooooooooo no noo noooooo Nooooo, noo

Wild, the Watery, the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of
Nooo, noo Nooooo, noo Nooooooo; noooooooo, no noo noooo-noooooo nooo no

such men, who still have left in them some interior compunctions against
nooo noo, noo noooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo nooooooo nooooooooooo noooooo

suicide, does the all-contributed and all-receptive ocean alluringly
noooooo, nooo noo noo-noooooooooo noo noo-noooooooo noooo nooooooooo

spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable, taking terrors, and
nooooo noooo noo noooo noooo no nooooooooooo, nooooo noooooo, noo

wonderful, new-life adventures; and from the hearts of infinite
noooooooo, noo-nooo nooooooooo; noo nooo noo nooooo no nooooooo

Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them--"Come hither,
Nooooooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo nooo no nooo--"Nooo nooooo,

broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of intermediate
nooooo-noooooo; nooo no noooooo nooo noooooo noo noooo no nooooooooooo

death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them. Come
noooo; nooo noo noooooo nooooooooooo, noooooo noooo noo nooo. Nooo

hither! bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and
nooooo! nooo noooooo no n nooo noooo, no nooo noo noooooo nooooooo noo

abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death. Come hither! put
noooooooo, nooooo noooo, no nooo noooooooo nooo noooo. Nooo nooooo! noo

up THY gravestone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till we
no NOO nooooooooo, noo, nooooo noo nooooooooo, noo nooo nooooo, nooo no

marry thee!"
noooo nooo!"




Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by fall
Nooooooooo no noooo nooooo, Nooo noo Nooo, no noooo noooooo, noo no nooo

of eve, the blacksmith's soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perth went
no noo, noo nooooooooo'n nooo noooooooo, Noo, N nooo! Noo no Noooo nooo

a-whaling.
n-noooooo.










CHAPTER 113. The Forge.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noooo.







With matted beard, and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron, about
Nooo nooooo noooo, noo noooooo no n noooooooo noooo-nooo noooo, noooo

mid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, the latter
noo-noo, Noooo noo nooooooo noooooo noo noooo noo noooo, noo nooooo

placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in the
nooooo nooo no nooo-nooo noo, nooo noo nooo noooooo n nooo-nooo no noo

coals, and with the other at his forge's lungs, when Captain Ahab came
noooo, noo nooo noo noooo no noo noooo'n noooo, nooo Noooooo Nooo nooo

along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag. While
noooo, nooooooo no noo nooo n noooo noooo-noooooo nooooooo noo. Noooo

yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last,
noo n nooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo, noooo Nooo nooooo; nooo no nooo,

Perth, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it upon the
Noooo, noooooooooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo, noooo noooooooo no nooo noo

anvil--the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights,
noooo--noo noo nooo noooooo noo noo nooooo no noooo nooooooo noooooo,

some of which flew close to Ahab.
nooo no noooo nooo noooo no Nooo.




"Are these thy Mother Carey's chickens, Perth? they are always flying
"Noo noooo noo Nooooo Noooo'n nooooooo, Noooo? nooo noo nooooo nooooo

in thy wake; birds of good omen, too, but not to all;--look here, they
no noo nooo; noooo no nooo nooo, noo, noo noo no noo;--nooo nooo, nooo

burn; but thou--thou liv'st among them without a scorch."
nooo; noo nooo--nooo noo'no noooo nooo noooooo n nooooo."




"Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab," answered Perth, resting
"Noooooo N no nooooooo noo nooo, Noooooo Nooo," nooooooo Noooo, noooooo

for a moment on his hammer; "I am past scorching; not easily can'st thou
noo n nooooo no noo nooooo; "N no nooo noooooooo; noo nooooo noo'no nooo

scorch a scar."
nooooo n nooo."




"Well, well; no more. Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly, sanely woeful
"Nooo, nooo; no nooo. Noo nooooo noooo nooooo noo nooooo, nooooo nooooo

to me. In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in others
no no. No no Nooooooo nooooo, N no noooooooo no noo nooooo no nooooo

that is not mad. Thou should'st go mad, blacksmith; say, why dost thou
nooo no noo noo. Nooo nooooo'no no noo, nooooooooo; noo, noo nooo nooo

not go mad? How can'st thou endure without being mad? Do the heavens yet
noo no noo? Noo noo'no nooo nooooo noooooo noooo noo? No noo noooooo noo

hate thee, that thou can'st not go mad?--What wert thou making there?"
nooo nooo, nooo nooo noo'no noo no noo?--Nooo nooo nooo nooooo noooo?"




"Welding an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in it."
"Noooooo no noo nooo-nooo, noo; noooo nooo noooo noo noooo no no."




"And can'st thou make it all smooth again, blacksmith, after such hard
"Noo noo'no nooo nooo no noo nooooo noooo, nooooooooo, noooo nooo nooo

usage as it had?"
noooo no no noo?"




"I think so, sir."
"N noooo no, noo."




"And I suppose thou can'st smoothe almost any seams and dents; never
"Noo N noooooo nooo noo'no noooooo nooooo noo noooo noo noooo; noooo

mind how hard the metal, blacksmith?"
nooo noo nooo noo noooo, nooooooooo?"




"Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one."
"Noo, noo, N noooo N noo; noo noooo noo noooo noo noo."




"Look ye here, then," cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning
"Nooo no nooo, nooo," noooo Nooo, nooooooooooo noooooooo, noo noooooo

with both hands on Perth's shoulders; "look ye here--HERE--can ye
nooo nooo noooo no Noooo'n noooooooo; "nooo no nooo--NOOO--noo no

smoothe out a seam like this, blacksmith," sweeping one hand across his
noooooo noo n nooo nooo nooo, nooooooooo," nooooooo noo nooo nooooo noo

ribbed brow; "if thou could'st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay
nooooo nooo; "no nooo noooo'no, nooooooooo, nooo nooooo noooo N noo

my head upon thy anvil, and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes.
no nooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo noo nooooooo nooooo noooooo no nooo.

Answer! Can'st thou smoothe this seam?"
Nooooo! Noo'no nooo noooooo nooo nooo?"




"Oh! that is the one, sir! Said I not all seams and dents but one?"
"No! nooo no noo noo, noo! Nooo N noo noo noooo noo noooo noo noo?"




"Aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
"Noo, nooooooooo, no no noo noo; noo, noo, no no nooooooooooo; noo

though thou only see'st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into the
nooooo nooo nooo noo'no no nooo no no noooo, no noo nooooo nooo nooo noo

bone of my skull--THAT is all wrinkles! But, away with child's play; no
nooo no no noooo--NOOO no noo nooooooo! Noo, nooo nooo noooo'n nooo; no

more gaffs and pikes to-day. Look ye here!" jingling the leathern bag,
nooo noooo noo noooo no-noo. Nooo no nooo!" nooooooo noo nooooooo noo,

as if it were full of gold coins. "I, too, want a harpoon made; one that
no no no nooo nooo no nooo noooo. "N, noo, nooo n noooooo nooo; noo nooo

a thousand yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; something that will
n nooooooo nooo no nooooo noooo noo nooo, Noooo; noooooooo nooo nooo

stick in a whale like his own fin-bone. There's the stuff," flinging
noooo no n noooo nooo noo noo noo-nooo. Noooo'n noo noooo," nooooooo

the pouch upon the anvil. "Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered
noo noooo nooo noo noooo. "Nooo no, nooooooooo, noooo noo noo nooooooo

nail-stubbs of the steel shoes of racing horses."
nooo-nooooo no noo noooo noooo no nooooo nooooo."




"Horse-shoe stubbs, sir? Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here, then, the
"Noooo-nooo nooooo, noo? Noo, Noooooo Nooo, nooo nooo nooo, nooo, noo

best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work."
nooo noo noooooooooo noooo no noooooooooo nooo nooo."




"I know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the
"N nooo no, noo noo; noooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooo noo

melted bones of murderers. Quick! forge me the harpoon. And forge me
nooooo noooo no noooooooo. Noooo! noooo no noo noooooo. Noo noooo no

first, twelve rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these
noooo, nooooo nooo noo noo noooo; nooo nooo, noo noooo, noo nooooo noooo

twelve together like the yarns and strands of a tow-line. Quick! I'll
nooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo noo noooooo no n noo-nooo. Noooo! N'no

blow the fire."
nooo noo nooo."




When at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by
Nooo no nooo noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo, Nooo noooo nooo, noo no noo, no

spiralling them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt. "A
nooooooooo nooo, nooo noo noo nooo, noooo n nooo, noooo nooo nooo. "N

flaw!" rejecting the last one. "Work that over again, Perth."
nooo!" noooooooo noo nooo noo. "Nooo nooo nooo noooo, Noooo."




This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when
Nooo nooo, Noooo noo noooo no noooo noooooo noo nooooo nooo noo, nooo

Ahab stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron. As, then,
Nooo nooooo noo nooo, noo nooo no noooo nooo noo noo nooo. No, nooo,

with regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing to
nooo noooooo, noooooo nooo, no nooooooo no noo noooo, Noooo noooooo no

him the glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forge
noo noo noooooo nooo, noo noooo noo noooo, noo noo nooo noooooo noooo

shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, and
nooooooo no noo noooooo nooooooo noooo, noo Nooooo nooooo nooooooo, noo

bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse or
nooooo nooo noo nooo noooooo noo nooo, nooooo nooooooo nooo noooo no

some blessing on the toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside.
nooo nooooooo no noo nooo. Noo, no Nooo nooooo no, no nooo noooo.




"What's that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?" muttered Stubb,
"Nooo'n nooo noooo no nooooooo noooooo noooo noooo noo?" nooooooo Noooo,

looking on from the forecastle. "That Parsee smells fire like a fusee;
noooooo no nooo noo nooooooooo. "Nooo Nooooo nooooo nooo nooo n noooo;

and smells of it himself, like a hot musket's powder-pan."
noo nooooo no no noooooo, nooo n noo nooooo'n nooooo-noo."




At last the shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and as
No nooo noo noooo, no noo nooooooo noo, nooooooo noo noooo nooo; noo no

Perth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near
Noooo, no nooooo no, noooooo no noo noooooo nooo noo nooo no noooo nooo

by, the scalding steam shot up into Ahab's bent face.
no, noo nooooooo noooo nooo no nooo Nooo'n nooo nooo.




"Would'st thou brand me, Perth?" wincing for a moment with the pain;
"Noooo'no nooo noooo no, Noooo?" noooooo noo n nooooo nooo noo nooo;

"have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?"
"nooo N nooo noo noooooo no noo nooooooo-nooo, nooo?"




"Pray God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not this
"Nooo Noo, noo nooo; noo N nooo noooooooo, Noooooo Nooo. No noo nooo

harpoon for the White Whale?"
noooooo noo noo Noooo Noooo?"




"For the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make them
"Noo noo noooo noooo! Noo noo noo noo noooo; nooo nooo nooo nooo

thyself, man. Here are my razors--the best of steel; here, and make the
noooooo, noo. Nooo noo no nooooo--noo nooo no noooo; nooo, noo nooo noo

barbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea."
noooo noooo no noo nooooo-noooo no noo Noo Noo."




For a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain
Noo n nooooo, noo noo nooooooooo nooo noo nooooo no nooooo no noooo nooo

not use them.
noo noo nooo.




"Take them, man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup,
"Nooo nooo, noo, N nooo no nooo noo nooo; noo N noo noooooo noooo, noo,

nor pray till--but here--to work!"
noo nooo nooo--noo nooo--no nooo!"




Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by Perth to the
Noooooooo no nooo nooo no nooooo noooo, noo nooooo no Noooo no noo

shank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the blacksmith
noooo, noo noooo nooo noooooo noo noo no noo nooo; noo no noo nooooooooo

was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to tempering them, he
noo noooo nooooo noo noooo noooo noooo nooo, noooo no noooooooo nooo, no

cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near.
noooo no Nooo no noooo noo noooo-nooo nooo.




"No, no--no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper. Ahoy,
"No, no--no noooo noo nooo; N nooo no no noo nooo noooo-nooooo. Nooo,

there! Tashtego, Queequeg, Daggoo! What say ye, pagans! Will ye give me
noooo! Nooooooo, Nooooooo, Nooooo! Nooo noo no, nooooo! Nooo no nooo no

as much blood as will cover this barb?" holding it high up. A cluster of
no nooo noooo no nooo noooo nooo nooo?" noooooo no nooo no. N noooooo no

dark nods replied, Yes. Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh,
nooo nooo noooooo, Noo. Noooo noooooooo nooo nooo no noo noooooo noooo,

and the White Whale's barbs were then tempered.
noo noo Noooo Noooo'n noooo nooo nooo nooooooo.




"Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!"
"Noo noo noooooo no no nooooo nooooo, noo no nooooo noooooo!"

deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the
noooooooooo nooooo Nooo, no noo noooooooo nooo noooooooooo nooooooo noo

baptismal blood.
noooooooo noooo.




Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one of hickory,
Noo, noooooooo noo noooo noooo nooo noooo, noo noooooooo noo no noooooo,

with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the socket of
nooo noo nooo noooo noooooooo no, Nooo nooooo noo noo no noo nooooo no

the iron. A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some fathoms of
noo nooo. N nooo no noo noo-nooo noo nooo noooooo, noo nooo noooooo no

it taken to the windlass, and stretched to a great tension. Pressing
no noooo no noo nooooooo, noo noooooooo no n noooo noooooo. Nooooooo

his foot upon it, till the rope hummed like a harp-string, then eagerly
noo nooo nooo no, nooo noo nooo nooooo nooo n nooo-nooooo, nooo noooooo

bending over it, and seeing no strandings, Ahab exclaimed, "Good! and
noooooo nooo no, noo nooooo no nooooooooo, Nooo noooooooo, "Nooo! noo

now for the seizings."
noo noo noo nooooooo."




At one extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns
No noo noooooooo noo nooo noo nooooooooo, noo noo nooooooo nooooo noooo

were all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole
nooo noo noooooo noo noooo noooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo; noo nooo

was then driven hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope
noo nooo nooooo nooo no nooo noo nooooo; nooo noo noooo noo noo nooo

was traced half-way along the pole's length, and firmly secured so, with
noo nooooo nooo-noo noooo noo nooo'n nooooo, noo nooooo noooooo no, nooo

intertwistings of twine. This done, pole, iron, and rope--like the Three
nooooooooooooo no noooo. Nooo nooo, nooo, nooo, noo nooo--nooo noo Noooo

Fates--remained inseparable, and Ahab moodily stalked away with the
Noooo--nooooooo noooooooooo, noo Nooo noooooo noooooo nooo nooo noo

weapon; the sound of his ivory leg, and the sound of the hickory pole,
nooooo; noo noooo no noo noooo noo, noo noo noooo no noo noooooo nooo,

both hollowly ringing along every plank. But ere he entered his cabin,
nooo nooooooo noooooo noooo noooo noooo. Noo noo no noooooo noo noooo,

light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most piteous sound was heard. Oh,
noooo, noooooooo, nooo-noooooooo, noo nooo noooooo noooo noo noooo. No,

Pip! thy wretched laugh, thy idle but unresting eye; all thy strange
Noo! noo nooooooo noooo, noo nooo noo noooooooo noo; noo noo noooooo

mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the black tragedy of the
noooooooo noo noooooooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo noooooo no noo

melancholy ship, and mocked it!
nooooooooo nooo, noo nooooo no!










CHAPTER 114. The Gilder.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooo.







Penetrating further and further into the heart of the Japanese cruising
Noooooooooo noooooo noo noooooo nooo noo noooo no noo Nooooooo nooooooo

ground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery. Often, in mild,
nooooo, noo Nooooo noo nooo noo noooo no noo noooooo. Noooo, no nooo,

pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours on the
nooooooo noooooo, noo nooooo, noooooo, nooooooo, noo nooooo noooo no noo

stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily pulling, or sailing,
noooooo, nooo nooo noooooo no noo noooo, nooooooo noooooo, no noooooo,

or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of sixty or seventy
no nooooooo noooo noo nooooo, no noo no noooooooo no noooo no noooooo

minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but small success
noooooo nooooo nooooooo noooo nooooooo; nooooo nooo noo noooo noooooo

for their pains.
noo noooo noooo.




At such times, under an abated sun; afloat all day upon smooth, slow
No nooo noooo, noooo no nooooo noo; nooooo noo noo nooo nooooo, nooo

heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a birch canoe; and so
noooooo nooooo; nooooo no noo nooo, noooo no n noooo noooo; noo no

sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that like hearth-stone
nooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo noooo nooooooooo, nooo nooo nooooo-noooo

cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of dreamy
nooo nooo nooo noooooo noo noooooo; noooo noo noo noooo no nooooo

quietude, when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the
nooooooo, nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo nooooo noo nooooooooo no noo

ocean's skin, one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it; and
noooo'n nooo, noo noooooo noo noooo noooo nooo noooo noooooo no; noo

would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals a
noooo noo noooooooo nooooooo, nooo nooo nooooo noo noo nooooooo n

remorseless fang.
noooooooooo nooo.




These are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softly feels a
Noooo noo noo noooo, nooo no noo noooo-nooo noo noooo nooooo noooo n

certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the sea; that he
noooooo nooooo, noooooooo, nooo-nooo noooooo noooooo noo noo; nooo no

regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship revealing
noooooo no no no nooo noooooo noooo; noo noo noooooo nooo noooooooo

only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through high
nooo noo nooo no noo noooo, noooo nooooooooo noooooo, noo noooooo nooo

rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
noooooo noooo, noo noooooo noo nooo noooo no n noooooo noooooo: no nooo

the western emigrants' horses only show their erected ears, while their
noo noooooo noooooooo' nooooo nooo nooo noooo noooooo nooo, noooo noooo

hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.
nooooo nooooo nooooo nooo noooooo noo noooooo noooooo.




The long-drawn virgin vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these
Noo nooo-noooo nooooo noooo; noo nooo nooo nooo-noooo; no nooo noooo

there steals the hush, the hum; you almost swear that play-wearied
noooo nooooo noo nooo, noo noo; noo nooooo noooo nooo nooo-noooooo

children lie sleeping in these solitudes, in some glad May-time, when
nooooooo noo nooooooo no noooo noooooooo, no nooo nooo Noo-nooo, nooo

the flowers of the woods are plucked. And all this mixes with your most
noo noooooo no noo noooo noo noooooo. Noo noo nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo

mystic mood; so that fact and fancy, half-way meeting, interpenetrate,
nooooo nooo; no nooo nooo noo noooo, nooo-noo noooooo, nooooooooooooo,

and form one seamless whole.
noo nooo noo nooooooo noooo.




Nor did such soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as
Noo noo nooo nooooooo nooooo, noooooo noooooooo, nooo no no noooo no

temporary an effect on Ahab. But if these secret golden keys did seem
noooooooo no nooooo no Nooo. Noo no noooo nooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo

to open in him his own secret golden treasuries, yet did his breath upon
no nooo no noo noo noo nooooo nooooo nooooooooo, noo noo noo nooooo nooo

them prove but tarnishing.
nooo noooo noo nooooooooo.




Oh, grassy glades! oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in
No, nooooo nooooo! no, nooo nooooo noooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo; no

ye,--though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life,--in ye,
no,--nooooo nooo noooooo no noo nooo noooooo no noo nooooo nooo,--no no,

men yet may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some
noo noo noo nooo, nooo noooo nooooo no noo noooooo nooooo; noo noo nooo

few fleeting moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them.
noo nooooooo noooooo, nooo noo nooo noo no noo nooo nooooooo no nooo.

Would to God these blessed calms would last. But the mingled, mingling
Noooo no Noo noooo noooooo noooo noooo nooo. Noo noo noooooo, nooooooo

threads of life are woven by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a
noooooo no nooo noo noooo no nooo noo nooo: noooo noooooo no nooooo, n

storm for every calm. There is no steady unretracing progress in this
noooo noo noooo nooo. Noooo no no nooooo noooooooooo nooooooo no nooo

life; we do not advance through fixed gradations, and at the last one
nooo; no no noo noooooo noooooo noooo nooooooooo, noo no noo nooo noo

pause:--through infancy's unconscious spell, boyhood's thoughtless
noooo:--noooooo noooooo'n noooooooooo noooo, noooooo'n noooooooooo

faith, adolescence' doubt (the common doom), then scepticism, then
noooo, noooooooooo' noooo (noo nooooo nooo), nooo nooooooooo, nooo

disbelief, resting at last in manhood's pondering repose of If. But once
noooooooo, noooooo no nooo no noooooo'n noooooooo nooooo no No. Noo nooo

gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys, and men,
nooo noooooo, no noooo noo noooo noooo; noo noo noooooo, nooo, noo noo,

and Ifs eternally. Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no
noo Noo noooooooo. Noooo nooo noo noooo nooooo, nooooo no nooooo no

more? In what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will
nooo? No nooo nooo noooo noooo noo noooo, no noooo noo nooooooo nooo

never weary? Where is the foundling's father hidden? Our souls are like
noooo noooo? Noooo no noo noooooooo'n nooooo nooooo? Noo noooo noo nooo

those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of
noooo noooooo noooo nooooooo noooooo noo no noooooo nooo: noo nooooo no

our paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it.
noo noooooooo nooo no noooo noooo, noo no nooo noooo no noooo no.




And that same day, too, gazing far down from his boat's side into that
Noo nooo nooo noo, noo, nooooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo'n nooo nooo nooo

same golden sea, Starbuck lowly murmured:--
nooo nooooo noo, Nooooooo noooo nooooooo:--




"Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his young bride's
"Nooooooooo nooooooooooo, no nooo noooo noo no noo noooo noooo'n

eye!--Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy kidnapping
noo!--Nooo no noo no noo noooo-nooooo nooooo, noo noo nooooooooo

cannibal ways. Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I look deep
nooooooo nooo. Noo noooo nooo nooo; noo noooo nooo nooooo; N nooo nooo

down and do believe."
nooo noo no noooooo."




And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales, leaped up in that same
Noo Noooo, nooo-nooo, nooo noooooooo nooooo, nooooo no no nooo nooo

golden light:--
nooooo noooo:--




"I am Stubb, and Stubb has his history; but here Stubb takes oaths that
"N no Noooo, noo Noooo noo noo noooooo; noo nooo Noooo noooo noooo nooo

he has always been jolly!"
no noo nooooo nooo noooo!"










CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooo Noooo Noo Nooooooo.







And jolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing down
Noo noooo nooooo nooo noo nooooo noo noo nooooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo

before the wind, some few weeks after Ahab's harpoon had been welded.
nooooo noo nooo, nooo noo noooo noooo Nooo'n noooooo noo nooo nooooo.




It was a Nantucket ship, the Bachelor, which had just wedged in her
No noo n Noooooooo nooo, noo Nooooooo, noooo noo nooo nooooo no noo

last cask of oil, and bolted down her bursting hatches; and now, in glad
nooo nooo no noo, noo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo noooooo; noo noo, no nooo

holiday apparel, was joyously, though somewhat vain-gloriously, sailing
noooooo noooooo, noo nooooooo, nooooo nooooooo nooo-nooooooooo, noooooo

round among the widely-separated ships on the ground, previous to
noooo noooo noo nooooo-noooooooo noooo no noo nooooo, nooooooo no

pointing her prow for home.
nooooooo noo nooo noo nooo.




The three men at her mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting
Noo noooo noo no noo nooo-nooo nooo nooo noooooooo no nooooo noo noooooo

at their hats; from the stern, a whale-boat was suspended, bottom down;
no noooo nooo; nooo noo noooo, n noooo-nooo noo noooooooo, nooooo nooo;

and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the
noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo noo nooo noo nooo noooo noo no noo

last whale they had slain. Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colours
nooo noooo nooo noo noooo. Noooooo, noooooo, noo noooo no noo noooooo

were flying from her rigging, on every side. Sideways lashed in each of
nooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo, no noooo nooo. Nooooooo nooooo no nooo no

her three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm; above which, in her
noo noooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo noooooo no noooo; noooo noooo, no noo

top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers of the same precious
noo-nooo noooo-noooo, noo noo noooooo nooooooo no noo nooo nooooooo

fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen lamp.
noooo; noo nooooo no noo nooo noooo noo n nooooo nooo.




As was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the most surprising
No noo nooooooooo noooooo, noo Nooooooo noo noo nooo noo nooo nooooooooo

success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same
noooooo; noo noo nooo noooooooo, noo nooo noooo nooooooo no noo nooo

seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months without securing a
nooo nooooooo noooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo nooooo noooooo nooooooo n

single fish. Not only had barrels of beef and bread been given away to
nooooo nooo. Noo nooo noo noooooo no nooo noo noooo nooo noooo nooo no

make room for the far more valuable sperm, but additional supplemental
nooo nooo noo noo noo nooo nooooooo noooo, noo nooooooooo nooooooooooo

casks had been bartered for, from the ships she had met; and these were
noooo noo nooo nooooooo noo, nooo noo noooo noo noo noo; noo noooo nooo

stowed along the deck, and in the captain's and officers' state-rooms.
nooooo noooo noo nooo, noo no noo noooooo'n noo nooooooo' noooo-noooo.

Even the cabin table itself had been knocked into kindling-wood; and the
Nooo noo noooo noooo nooooo noo nooo noooooo nooo nooooooo-nooo; noo noo

cabin mess dined off the broad head of an oil-butt, lashed down to the
noooo nooo noooo noo noo noooo nooo no no noo-nooo, nooooo nooo no noo

floor for a centrepiece. In the forecastle, the sailors had actually
noooo noo n noooooooooo. No noo nooooooooo, noo noooooo noo nooooooo

caulked and pitched their chests, and filled them; it was humorously
noooooo noo noooooo noooo nooooo, noo nooooo nooo; no noo nooooooooo

added, that the cook had clapped a head on his largest boiler, and
noooo, nooo noo nooo noo noooooo n nooo no noo noooooo nooooo, noo

filled it; that the steward had plugged his spare coffee-pot and filled
nooooo no; nooo noo noooooo noo noooooo noo noooo nooooo-noo noo nooooo

it; that the harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and
no; nooo noo noooooooooo noo nooooo noo noooooo no noooo noooo noo

filled them; that indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the
nooooo nooo; nooo nooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo nooo noooo, nooooo noo

captain's pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands
noooooo'n nooooooooo noooooo, noo noooo no nooooooo no nooooo noo noooo

into, in self-complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction.
nooo, no nooo-nooooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooo nooooooooooo.




As this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the
No nooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo noo noooo Nooooo, noo

barbarian sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle; and drawing
noooooooo noooo no nooooooo noooo nooo nooo noo nooooooooo; noo noooooo

still nearer, a crowd of her men were seen standing round her huge
noooo nooooo, n noooo no noo noo nooo nooo nooooooo noooo noo nooo

try-pots, which, covered with the parchment-like POKE or stomach skin of
noo-nooo, noooo, noooooo nooo noo noooooooo-nooo NOOO no noooooo nooo no

the black fish, gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of the clenched
noo noooo nooo, nooo noooo n nooo nooo no noooo nooooo no noo nooooooo

hands of the crew. On the quarter-deck, the mates and harpooneers were
noooo no noo nooo. No noo noooooo-nooo, noo noooo noo noooooooooo nooo

dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped with them from the
noooooo nooo noo noooo-nooo noooo noo noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo noo

Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat, firmly secured
Nooooooooo Noooo; noooo noooooooo no no nooooooooo nooo, nooooo noooooo

aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Island negroes, with
noooo noooooo noo nooooooo noo nooooooo, noooo Nooo Nooooo noooooo, nooo

glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the hilarious
nooooooooo nooooo-nooo no noooo noooo, nooo noooooooo nooo noo noooooooo

jig. Meanwhile, others of the ship's company were tumultuously busy at
noo. Noooooooo, nooooo no noo nooo'n noooooo nooo nooooooooooo nooo no

the masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been
noo noooooo no noo noo-noooo, nooo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo

removed. You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed
noooooo. Noo noooo nooo nooooo noooooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo

Bastille, such wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and
Nooooooo, nooo nooo noooo nooo nooooo, no noo noo noooooo noooo noo

mortar were being hurled into the sea.
nooooo nooo noooo nooooo nooo noo noo.




Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the
Nooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooo noooo, noo noooooo noooo noooo no noo

ship's elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was
nooo'n nooooooo noooooo-nooo, no nooo noo noooo noooooooo noooo noo

full before him, and seemed merely contrived for his own individual
nooo nooooo noo, noo nooooo nooooo noooooooo noo noo noo nooooooooo

diversion.
noooooooo.




And Ahab, he too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black,
Noo Nooo, no noo noo nooooooo no noo noooooo-nooo, nooooo noo noooo,

with a stubborn gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other's
nooo n nooooooo noooo; noo no noo noo noooo noooooo nooo noooo'n

wakes--one all jubilations for things passed, the other all forebodings
noooo--noo noo noooooooooo noo nooooo nooooo, noo noooo noo noooooooooo

as to things to come--their two captains in themselves impersonated the
no no nooooo no nooo--noooo noo nooooooo no nooooooooo nooooooooooo noo

whole striking contrast of the scene.
noooo nooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo.




"Come aboard, come aboard!" cried the gay Bachelor's commander, lifting
"Nooo nooooo, nooo nooooo!" noooo noo noo Nooooooo'n noooooooo, noooooo

a glass and a bottle in the air.
n noooo noo n nooooo no noo noo.




"Hast seen the White Whale?" gritted Ahab in reply.
"Nooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo?" noooooo Nooo no noooo.




"No; only heard of him; but don't believe in him at all," said the other
"No; nooo noooo no noo; noo noo'n noooooo no noo no noo," nooo noo noooo

good-humoredly. "Come aboard!"
nooo-noooooooo. "Nooo nooooo!"




"Thou art too damned jolly. Sail on. Hast lost any men?"
"Nooo noo noo nooooo noooo. Nooo no. Nooo nooo noo noo?"




"Not enough to speak of--two islanders, that's all;--but come aboard,
"Noo nooooo no noooo no--noo noooooooo, nooo'n noo;--noo nooo nooooo,

old hearty, come along. I'll soon take that black from your brow. Come
noo nooooo, nooo noooo. N'no nooo nooo nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo. Nooo

along, will ye (merry's the play); a full ship and homeward-bound."
noooo, nooo no (noooo'n noo nooo); n nooo nooo noo nooooooo-noooo."




"How wondrous familiar is a fool!" muttered Ahab; then aloud, "Thou art
"Noo nooooooo nooooooo no n nooo!" nooooooo Nooo; nooo noooo, "Nooo noo

a full ship and homeward bound, thou sayst; well, then, call me an empty
n nooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo, nooo noooo; nooo, nooo, nooo no no noooo

ship, and outward-bound. So go thy ways, and I will mine. Forward there!
nooo, noo noooooo-noooo. No no noo nooo, noo N nooo nooo. Noooooo noooo!

Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!"
Noo noo nooo, noo nooo noo no noo nooo!"




And thus, while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other
Noo nooo, noooo noo noo nooo nooo nooooooo nooooo noo nooooo, noo noooo

stubbornly fought against it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew
nooooooooo nooooo noooooo no; noo no noo noo noooooo nooooo; noo nooo

of the Pequod looking with grave, lingering glances towards the receding
no noo Nooooo noooooo nooo noooo, noooooooo noooooo noooooo noo nooooooo

Bachelor; but the Bachelor's men never heeding their gaze for the lively
Nooooooo; noo noo Nooooooo'n noo noooo noooooo noooo nooo noo noo nooooo

revelry they were in. And as Ahab, leaning over the taffrail, eyed the
noooooo nooo nooo no. Noo no Nooo, noooooo nooo noo nooooooo, nooo noo

homewardbound craft, he took from his pocket a small vial of sand, and
noooooooooooo noooo, no nooo nooo noo nooooo n noooo nooo no nooo, noo

then looking from the ship to the vial, seemed thereby bringing two
nooo noooooo nooo noo nooo no noo nooo, nooooo noooooo nooooooo noo

remote associations together, for that vial was filled with Nantucket
nooooo nooooooooooo nooooooo, noo nooo nooo noo nooooo nooo Noooooooo

soundings.
noooooooo.










CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noooo Noooo.







Not seldom in this life, when, on the right side, fortune's favourites
Noo nooooo no nooo nooo, nooo, no noo noooo nooo, noooooo'n nooooooooo

sail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of the
nooo noooo no no, no, nooooo noo nooooo nooooo, noooo nooooooo no noo

rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out. So seemed
noooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo nooo noo. No nooooo

it with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor,
no nooo noo Nooooo. Noo nooo noo noooo nooooooooooo noo noo Nooooooo,

whales were seen and four were slain; and one of them by Ahab.
nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo; noo noo no nooo no Nooo.




It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of the crimson
No noo noo nooo noo noooooooo; noo nooo noo noo noooooooo no noo noooooo

fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky, sun
noooo nooo nooo: noo nooooooo no noo nooooo nooooo noo noo noo, noo

and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and such
noo noooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooooo; nooo, nooo n noooooooo noo nooo

plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air, that
noooooooooooo, nooo noooooooooo noooooo nooooo no no nooo nooo noo, nooo

it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of
no nooooo nooooo no no noo nooo nooo noo nooo noooo noooooo noooooo no

the Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned sailor, had
noo Noooooo noooo, noo Noooooo nooo-nooooo, nooooooo nooooo nooooo, noo

gone to sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.
nooo no noo, noooooooo nooo noooo nooooo noooo.




Soothed again, but only soothed to deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned
Noooooo noooo, noo nooo noooooo no nooooo noooo, Nooo, noo noo noooooo

off from the whale, sat intently watching his final wanings from the now
noo nooo noo noooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo noo noooo noooooo nooo noo noo

tranquil boat. For that strange spectacle observable in all sperm whales
nooooooo nooo. Noo nooo noooooo noooooooo nooooooooo no noo noooo nooooo

dying--the turning sunwards of the head, and so expiring--that strange
noooo--noo noooooo nooooooo no noo nooo, noo no nooooooo--nooo noooooo

spectacle, beheld of such a placid evening, somehow to Ahab conveyed a
noooooooo, nooooo no nooo n nooooo noooooo, noooooo no Nooo nooooooo n

wondrousness unknown before.
nooooooooooo noooooo nooooo.




"He turns and turns him to it,--how slowly, but how steadfastly, his
"No noooo noo noooo noo no no,--noo nooooo, noo noo noooooooooo, noo

homage-rendering and invoking brow, with his last dying motions. He too
nooooo-noooooooo noo nooooooo nooo, nooo noo nooo noooo noooooo. No noo

worships fire; most faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun!--Oh
nooooooo nooo; nooo nooooooo, noooo, nooooooo nooooo no noo noo!--No

that these too-favouring eyes should see these too-favouring sights.
nooo noooo noo-noooooooo nooo nooooo noo noooo noo-noooooooo nooooo.

Look! here, far water-locked; beyond all hum of human weal or woe;
Nooo! nooo, noo noooo-nooooo; nooooo noo noo no noooo nooo no noo;

in these most candid and impartial seas; where to traditions no rocks
no noooo nooo nooooo noo noooooooo nooo; noooo no nooooooooo no noooo

furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the billows have still
noooooo noooooo; noooo noo nooo Noooooo nooo, noo noooooo nooo noooo

rolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine upon the
nooooo no nooooooooo noo nooooooo no, no noooo nooo noooo nooo noo

Niger's unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of faith; but
Noooo'n noooooo nooooo; nooo, noo, nooo nooo nooooooo nooo no noooo; noo

see! no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and it heads
noo! no nooooo nooo, nooo noooo nooooo noooo noo nooooo, noo no noooo

some other way.
nooo noooo noo.




"Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned bones hast builded
"No, nooo nooo Nooooo nooo no nooooo, noo no noooooo noooo nooo noooooo

thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these unverdured seas;
noo nooooooo nooooo noooooooo no noo noooo no noooo nooooooooo nooo;

thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to me in the
nooo noo no noooooo, nooo noooo, noo noo noooo nooooooo no no no noo

wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm. Nor
nooo-nooooooooooo Noooooo, noo noo nooooo nooooo no noo noooo nooo. Noo

has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round
noo nooo noo noooo nooooooo nooooo noo noooo nooo, noo nooo nooo noooo

again, without a lesson to me.
noooo, noooooo n nooooo no no.




"Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power! Oh, high aspiring, rainbowed
"No, nooooo nooooo noo nooooo noo no noooo! No, nooo nooooooo, noooooooo

jet!--that one strivest, this one jettest all in vain! In vain, oh
noo!--nooo noo nooooooo, nooo noo noooooo noo no nooo! No nooo, no

whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon all-quickening sun, that
noooo, nooo nooo nooo nooooooooooo nooo noo noo-nooooooooo noo, nooo

only calls forth life, but gives it not again. Yet dost thou, darker
nooo noooo noooo nooo, noo noooo no noo noooo. Noo nooo nooo, nooooo

half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith. All thy unnamable
nooo, nooo no nooo n noooooo, no n nooooo noooo. Noo noo noooooooo

imminglings float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of once living
noooooooooo noooo noooooo no nooo; N no nooooo no noooooo no nooo nooooo

things, exhaled as air, but water now.
nooooo, noooooo no noo, noo noooo noo.




"Then hail, for ever hail, O sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild
"Nooo nooo, noo nooo nooo, N noo, no noooo noooooo nooooooo noo nooo

fowl finds his only rest. Born of earth, yet suckled by the sea; though
nooo noooo noo nooo nooo. Nooo no noooo, noo noooooo no noo noo; nooooo

hill and valley mothered me, ye billows are my foster-brothers!"
nooo noo nooooo nooooooo no, no noooooo noo no nooooo-nooooooo!"










CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noooo Noooo.







The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart; one, far to
Noo nooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooo noo nooo nooo noooo; noo, noo no

windward; one, less distant, to leeward; one ahead; one astern. These
nooooooo; noo, nooo noooooo, no noooooo; noo noooo; noo nooooo. Noooo

last three were brought alongside ere nightfall; but the windward one
nooo noooo nooo noooooo noooooooo noo noooooooo; noo noo nooooooo noo

could not be reached till morning; and the boat that had killed it lay
noooo noo no noooooo nooo noooooo; noo noo nooo nooo noo nooooo no noo

by its side all night; and that boat was Ahab's.
no noo nooo noo noooo; noo nooo nooo noo Nooo'n.




The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale's spout-hole; and
Noo nooo-nooo noo nooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo noooo'n noooo-nooo; noo

the lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare
noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo noo, nooo n nooooooo nooooooooo noooo

upon the black, glossy back, and far out upon the midnight waves, which
nooo noo noooo, nooooo nooo, noo noo noo nooo noo nooooooo noooo, noooo

gently chafed the whale's broad flank, like soft surf upon a beach.
nooooo nooooo noo noooo'n noooo noooo, nooo nooo nooo nooo n noooo.




Ahab and all his boat's crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who crouching
Nooo noo noo noo nooo'n nooo nooooo nooooo noo noo Nooooo; noo noooooooo

in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played round the
no noo noo, noo nooooooo noo nooooo, nooo nooooooooo nooooo noooo noo

whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails. A sound
noooo, noo nooooo noo noooo noooo nooooo nooo noooo noooo. N noooo

like the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of
nooo noo noooooo no noooooooo nooo Noooooooooo no nooooooooo nooooo no

Gomorrah, ran shuddering through the air.
Nooooooo, noo nooooooooo noooooo noo noo.




Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw the Parsee; and
Noooooo nooo noo nooooooo, Nooo, nooo no nooo, noo noo Nooooo; noo

hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a
nooooo noooo no noo noooo no noo noooo nooo nooooo noo nooo noo no n

flooded world. "I have dreamed it again," said he.
noooooo noooo. "N nooo noooooo no noooo," nooo no.




"Of the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor
"No noo noooooo? Nooo N noo nooo, noo noo, nooo noooooo nooooo noo

coffin can be thine?"
nooooo noo no noooo?"




"And who are hearsed that die on the sea?"
"Noo noo noo noooooo nooo noo no noo noo?"




"But I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two
"Noo N nooo, noo noo, nooo noo nooo noooooo noo no nooo nooooo, noo

hearses must verily be seen by thee on the sea; the first not made by
noooooo nooo nooooo no nooo no nooo no noo noo; noo noooo noo nooo no

mortal hands; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in
nooooo noooo; noo noo noooooo nooo no noo nooo noo nooo no noooo no

America."
Noooooo."




"Aye, aye! a strange sight that, Parsee:--a hearse and its plumes
"Noo, noo! n noooooo noooo nooo, Nooooo:--n nooooo noo noo nooooo

floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such a
nooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo noo noooo noo noo nooo-noooooo. No! Nooo n

sight we shall not soon see."
noooo no noooo noo nooo noo."




"Believe it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man."
"Noooooo no no noo, nooo noooo noo noo nooo no no nooo, noo noo."




"And what was that saying about thyself?"
"Noo nooo noo nooo nooooo noooo noooooo?"




"Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot."
"Nooooo no nooo no noo nooo, N noooo noooo no nooooo nooo noo noooo."




"And when thou art so gone before--if that ever befall--then ere I can
"Noo nooo nooo noo no nooo nooooo--no nooo nooo nooooo--nooo noo N noo

follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still?--Was it not
nooooo, nooo nooo noooo nooooo no no, no noooo no noooo?--Noo no noo

so? Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot! I have here two
no? Nooo, nooo, noo N noooooo noo no noo, no no noooo! N nooo nooo noo

pledges that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it."
noooooo nooo N noooo noo nooo Nooo Nooo noo noooooo no."




"Take another pledge, old man," said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up
"Nooo noooooo nooooo, noo noo," nooo noo Nooooo, no noo nooo noooooo no

like fire-flies in the gloom--"Hemp only can kill thee."
nooo nooo-noooo no noo noooo--"Nooo nooo noo nooo nooo."




"The gallows, ye mean.--I am immortal then, on land and on sea," cried
"Noo noooooo, no nooo.--N no nooooooo nooo, no nooo noo no noo," noooo

Ahab, with a laugh of derision;--"Immortal on land and on sea!"
Nooo, nooo n noooo no nooooooo;--"Nooooooo no nooo noo no noo!"




Both were silent again, as one man. The grey dawn came on, and the
Nooo nooo nooooo noooo, no noo noo. Noo nooo nooo nooo no, noo noo

slumbering crew arose from the boat's bottom, and ere noon the dead
nooooooooo nooo noooo nooo noo nooo'n nooooo, noo noo nooo noo nooo

whale was brought to the ship.
noooo noo noooooo no noo nooo.










CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooooo.







The season for the Line at length drew near; and every day when Ahab,
Noo nooooo noo noo Nooo no nooooo nooo nooo; noo noooo noo nooo Nooo,

coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft, the vigilant helmsman would
nooooo nooo noo noooo, nooo noo nooo noooo, noo nooooooo nooooooo noooo

ostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager mariners quickly run to
nooooooooooooo nooooo noo nooooo, noo noo noooo nooooooo noooooo noo no

the braces, and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed
noo nooooo, noo noooo noooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooo noooooooo noooo

on the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the ship's
no noo nooooo nooooooo; noooooooo noo noo noooo no noooo noo nooo'n

prow for the equator. In good time the order came. It was hard upon high
nooo noo noo noooooo. No nooo nooo noo noooo nooo. No noo nooo nooo nooo

noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was
nooo; noo Nooo, nooooo no noo nooo no noo nooo-noooooo nooo, noo

about taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his
noooo nooooo noo nooooo noooo noooooooooo no noo noo no noooooooo noo

latitude.
nooooooo.




Now, in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of
Noo, no nooo Nooooooo noo, noo nooo no nooooo noo no nooooooo no

effulgences. That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing
noooooooooo. Nooo nooooooooooo noooo Nooooooo noo noooo noo noooooo

focus of the glassy ocean's immeasurable burning-glass. The sky looks
noooo no noo nooooo noooo'n nooooooooooo noooooo-noooo. Noo noo noooo

lacquered; clouds there are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness
noooooooo; nooooo noooo noo nooo; noo noooooo nooooo; noo nooo noooooooo

of unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable splendors of God's throne.
no nooooooooo nooooooo no no noo nooooooooooo noooooooo no Noo'n nooooo.

Well that Ahab's quadrant was furnished with coloured glasses, through
Nooo nooo Nooo'n nooooooo noo noooooooo nooo nooooooo noooooo, noooooo

which to take sight of that solar fire. So, swinging his seated form
noooo no nooo noooo no nooo noooo nooo. No, nooooooo noo nooooo nooo

to the roll of the ship, and with his astrological-looking instrument
no noo nooo no noo nooo, noo nooo noo nooooooooooo-noooooo nooooooooo

placed to his eye, he remained in that posture for some moments to
nooooo no noo noo, no nooooooo no nooo noooooo noo nooo noooooo no

catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its precise meridian.
noooo noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo noo nooooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooo.

Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed, the Parsee was kneeling
Nooooooo noooo noo noooo noooooooo noo nooooooo, noo Nooooo noo nooooooo

beneath him on the ship's deck, and with face thrown up like Ahab's,
noooooo noo no noo nooo'n nooo, noo nooo nooo nooooo no nooo Nooo'n,

was eyeing the same sun with him; only the lids of his eyes half hooded
noo nooooo noo nooo noo nooo noo; nooo noo nooo no noo nooo nooo nooooo

their orbs, and his wild face was subdued to an earthly passionlessness.
noooo nooo, noo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo no no noooooo noooooooooooooo.

At length the desired observation was taken; and with his pencil upon
No nooooo noo noooooo noooooooooo noo noooo; noo nooo noo nooooo nooo

his ivory leg, Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at that
noo noooo noo, Nooo nooo nooooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo no no nooo

precise instant. Then falling into a moment's revery, he again looked up
noooooo noooooo. Nooo noooooo nooo n nooooo'n nooooo, no noooo nooooo no

towards the sun and murmured to himself: "Thou sea-mark! thou high and
noooooo noo noo noo nooooooo no noooooo: "Nooo noo-nooo! nooo nooo noo

mighty Pilot! thou tellest me truly where I AM--but canst thou cast the
nooooo Noooo! nooo noooooo no noooo noooo N NO--noo noooo nooo nooo noo

least hint where I SHALL be? Or canst thou tell where some other thing
noooo nooo noooo N NOOOO no? No noooo nooo nooo noooo nooo noooo noooo

besides me is this moment living? Where is Moby Dick? This instant thou
noooooo no no nooo nooooo nooooo? Noooo no Nooo Nooo? Nooo noooooo nooo

must be eyeing him. These eyes of mine look into the very eye that is
nooo no nooooo noo. Noooo nooo no nooo nooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo no

even now beholding him; aye, and into the eye that is even now equally
nooo noo noooooooo noo; noo, noo nooo noo noo nooo no nooo noo noooooo

beholding the objects on the unknown, thither side of thee, thou sun!"
noooooooo noo noooooo no noo noooooo, noooooo nooo no nooo, nooo noo!"




Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the other, its
Nooo nooooo no noo nooooooo, noo nooooooo, noo noooo noo noooo, noo

numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and muttered:
nooooooo nooooooooooo nooooooooooo, no nooooooo noooo, noo nooooooo:

"Foolish toy! babies' plaything of haughty Admirals, and Commodores, and
"Noooooo noo! nooooo' noooooooo no noooooo Nooooooo, noo Nooooooooo, noo

Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; but what
Nooooooo; noo noooo noooo no nooo, no noo noooooo noo noooo; noo nooo

after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where thou
noooo noo noooo nooo no, noo nooo noo nooo, noooooo noooo, noooo nooo

thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds
noooooo noooooooo no no no nooo nooo nooooo, noo noo nooo nooo noooo

thee: no! not one jot more! Thou canst not tell where one drop of water
nooo: no! noo noo noo nooo! Nooo noooo noo nooo noooo noo nooo no noooo

or one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy impotence
no noo noooo no nooo nooo no no-nooooo nooo; noo noo nooo noo noooooooo

thou insultest the sun! Science! Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed
nooo noooooooo noo noo! Noooooo! Noooo nooo, nooo nooo noo; noo nooooo

be all the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live
no noo noo nooooo nooo nooo noo'n nooo noooo no nooo nooooo, noooo nooo

vividness but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now scorched
noooooooo noo nooooooo noo, no noooo noo nooo noo nooo noo nooooooo

with thy light, O sun! Level by nature to this earth's horizon are the
nooo noo noooo, N noo! Noooo no nooooo no nooo noooo'n noooooo noo noo

glances of man's eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as if God
noooooo no noo'n nooo; noo nooo nooo noo noooo no noo nooo, no no Noo

had meant him to gaze on his firmament. Curse thee, thou quadrant!"
noo noooo noo no nooo no noo noooooooo. Noooo nooo, nooo nooooooo!"

dashing it to the deck, "no longer will I guide my earthly way by thee;
noooooo no no noo nooo, "no nooooo nooo N noooo no noooooo noo no nooo;

the level ship's compass, and the level deadreckoning, by log and by
noo noooo nooo'n noooooo, noo noo noooo noooooooooooo, no noo noo no

line; THESE shall conduct me, and show me my place on the sea. Aye,"
nooo; NOOOO noooo noooooo no, noo nooo no no noooo no noo noo. Noo,"

lighting from the boat to the deck, "thus I trample on thee, thou paltry
nooooooo nooo noo nooo no noo nooo, "nooo N noooooo no nooo, nooo nooooo

thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split and destroy thee!"
noooo nooo nooooo nooooooo no nooo; nooo N noooo noo noooooo nooo!"




As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live
No noo noooooo noo noo nooo noooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo

and dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a
noo nooo nooo, n nooooooo noooooo nooo nooooo noooo noo Nooo, noo n

fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself--these passed over
nooooooooo noooooo nooo nooooo noooo noo noooooo--noooo nooooo nooo

the mute, motionless Parsee's face. Unobserved he rose and glided away;
noo nooo, nooooooooo Nooooo'n nooo. Nooooooooo no nooo noo nooooo nooo;

while, awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered
noooo, noooooooo no noo nooooo no noooo noooooooo, noo nooooo noooooooo

together on the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck,
nooooooo no noo nooooooooo, nooo Nooo, nooooooooo nooooo noo nooo,

shouted out--"To the braces! Up helm!--square in!"
noooooo noo--"No noo nooooo! No nooo!--nooooo no!"




In an instant the yards swung round; and as the ship half-wheeled upon
No no noooooo noo noooo noooo noooo; noo no noo nooo nooo-noooooo nooo

her heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon
noo nooo, noo noooo nooo-nooooo nooooooo noooo noooooo nooooo nooo

her long, ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one
noo nooo, nooooo nooo, nooooo no noo noooo Noooooo noooooooooo no noo

sufficient steed.
nooooooooo noooo.




Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod's
Nooooooo noooooo noo nooooo-noooo, Nooooooo noooooo noo Nooooo'n

tumultuous way, and Ahab's also, as he went lurching along the deck.
nooooooooo noo, noo Nooo'n nooo, no no nooo nooooooo noooo noo nooo.




"I have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full of
"N nooo noo nooooo noo noooo nooo nooo noo noooooo no noo noooo, nooo no

its tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down, down,
noo noooooooo noooooo nooo; noo N nooo nooo no nooo no nooo, nooo, nooo,

to dumbest dust. Old man of oceans! of all this fiery life of thine,
no noooooo nooo. Noo noo no nooooo! no noo nooo noooo nooo no noooo,

what will at length remain but one little heap of ashes!"
nooo nooo no nooooo nooooo noo noo nooooo nooo no noooo!"




"Aye," cried Stubb, "but sea-coal ashes--mind ye that, Mr.
"Noo," noooo Noooo, "noo noo-nooo noooo--nooo no nooo, No.

Starbuck--sea-coal, not your common charcoal. Well, well; I heard Ahab
Nooooooo--noo-nooo, noo nooo nooooo nooooooo. Nooo, nooo; N noooo Nooo

mutter, 'Here some one thrusts these cards into these old hands of mine;
nooooo, 'Nooo nooo noo noooooo noooo noooo nooo noooo noo noooo no nooo;

swears that I must play them, and no others.' And damn me, Ahab, but
nooooo nooo N nooo nooo nooo, noo no nooooo.' Noo nooo no, Nooo, noo

thou actest right; live in the game, and die in it!"
nooo nooooo noooo; nooo no noo nooo, noo noo no no!"










CHAPTER 119. The Candles.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noooooo.







Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengal
Noooooo nooooo noo noooo noo noooooooo noooo: noo noooo no Nooooo

crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. Skies the most effulgent
nooooooo no nooooo nooooo no noooooooo noooooo. Noooo noo nooo noooooooo

but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows tornadoes
noo nooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo: nooooooo Nooo noooo noooooooo

that never swept tame northern lands. So, too, it is, that in these
nooo noooo noooo nooo nooooooo noooo. No, noo, no no, nooo no noooo

resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all
noooooooooo Nooooooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo no noo

storms, the Typhoon. It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless
nooooo, noo Noooooo. No nooo noooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo noooooooo

sky, like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.
noo, nooo no noooooooo nooo nooo n noooo noo nooooo nooo.




Towards evening of that day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and
Noooooo noooooo no nooo noo, noo Nooooo noo nooo no noo nooooo, noo

bare-poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly
nooo-noooo noo nooo no noooo n Noooooo noooo noo nooooo noo nooooooo

ahead. When darkness came on, sky and sea roared and split with the
noooo. Nooo nooooooo nooo no, noo noo noo nooooo noo noooo nooo noo

thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that showed the disabled masts
noooooo, noo nooooo nooo noo noooooooo, nooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo

fluttering here and there with the rags which the first fury of the
nooooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo noooo noo noooo nooo no noo

tempest had left for its after sport.
noooooo noo nooo noo noo noooo noooo.




Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every
Noooooo no n nooooo, Nooooooo noo nooooooo no noo noooooo-nooo; no noooo

flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster
noooo no noo noooooooo nooooooo noooo, no noo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo

might have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask
noooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooooo nooooo noooo; noooo Noooo noo Noooo

were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the
nooo noooooooo noo noo no noo nooooo nooooooo noo nooooo noooooo no noo

boats. But all their pains seemed naught. Though lifted to the very
noooo. Noo noo noooo noooo nooooo nooooo. Nooooo nooooo no noo nooo

top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab's) did not escape.
noo no noo nooooo, noo nooooooo noooooo nooo (Nooo'n) noo noo nooooo.

A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeling ship's high
N noooo noooooo noo, noooooo nooo no noooooo noo noooooo nooo'n nooo

teetering side, stove in the boat's bottom at the stern, and left it
noooooooo nooo, noooo no noo nooo'n nooooo no noo noooo, noo nooo no

again, all dripping through like a sieve.
noooo, noo nooooooo noooooo nooo n noooo.




"Bad work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck," said Stubb, regarding the wreck,
"Noo nooo, noo nooo! No. Nooooooo," nooo Noooo, noooooooo noo noooo,

"but the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can't fight it. You see,
"noo noo noo nooo nooo noo noo. Noooo, noo noo, noo'n noooo no. Noo noo,

Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all
No. Nooooooo, n nooo noo nooo n noooo nooo noooo nooooo no noooo, noo

round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me, all
noooo noo noooo no nooo, noo nooo noooo noo nooooo! Noo no noo no, noo

the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here. But never
noo noooo N nooo no nooo no, no nooo nooooo noo nooo nooo. Noo noooo

mind; it's all in fun: so the old song says;"--(SINGS.)
nooo; no'n noo no noo: no noo noo nooo nooo;"--(NOOOO.)




  Oh! jolly is the gale,
  No! noooo no noo nooo,

  And a joker is the whale,
  Noo n noooo no noo noooo,

  A' flourishin' his tail,--
  N' nooooooooo' noo nooo,--

  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
  Nooo n noooo, nooooo, nooo, noooo, nooo, nooo-nooo noo, no noo Noooo, no!




  The scud all a flyin',
  Noo nooo noo n noooo',

  That's his flip only foamin';
  Nooo'n noo nooo nooo nooooo';

  When he stirs in the spicin',--
  Nooo no noooo no noo nooooo',--

  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
  Nooo n noooo, nooooo, nooo, noooo, nooo, nooo-nooo noo, no noo Noooo, no!




  Thunder splits the ships,
  Noooooo nooooo noo noooo,

  But he only smacks his lips,
  Noo no nooo nooooo noo nooo,

  A tastin' of this flip,--
  N nooooo' no nooo nooo,--

  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
  Nooo n noooo, nooooo, nooo, noooo, nooo, nooo-nooo noo, no noo Noooo, no!







"Avast Stubb," cried Starbuck, "let the Typhoon sing, and strike his
"Noooo Noooo," noooo Nooooooo, "noo noo Noooooo nooo, noo nooooo noo

harp here in our rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy
nooo nooo no noo noooooo; noo no nooo noo n noooo noo nooo nooo nooo noo

peace."
noooo."




"But I am not a brave man; never said I was a brave man; I am a coward;
"Noo N no noo n noooo noo; noooo nooo N noo n noooo noo; N no n nooooo;

and I sing to keep up my spirits. And I tell you what it is, Mr.
noo N nooo no nooo no no noooooo. Noo N nooo noo nooo no no, No.

Starbuck, there's no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my
Nooooooo, noooo'n no noo no nooo no noooooo no nooo noooo noo no noo no

throat. And when that's done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a
nooooo. Noo nooo nooo'n nooo, noo no noo N nooo no noo nooooooo noo n

wind-up."
nooo-no."




"Madman! look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own."
"Nooooo! nooo noooooo no nooo no nooo nooo nooo no noooo noo."




"What! how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else, never
"Nooo! noo noo noo noo nooooo no n nooo noooo nooo noooooo nooo, noooo

mind how foolish?"
nooo noo noooooo?"




"Here!" cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his
"Nooo!" noooo Nooooooo, noooooo Noooo no noo nooooooo, noo nooooooo noo

hand towards the weather bow, "markest thou not that the gale comes from
nooo noooooo noo noooooo noo, "noooooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo noooo nooo

the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick? the very
noo nooooooo, noo nooo nooooo Nooo no no noo noo Nooo Nooo? noo nooo

course he swung to this day noon? now mark his boat there; where is
nooooo no noooo no nooo noo nooo? noo nooo noo nooo noooo; noooo no

that stove? In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand--his
nooo noooo? No noo noooo-nooooo, noo; noooo no no nooo no noooo--noo

stand-point is stove, man! Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thou
noooo-noooo no noooo, noo! Noo nooo noooooooo, noo nooo nooo, no nooo

must!
nooo!




"I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind?"
"N noo'n nooo nooooooooo no: nooo'n no noo nooo?"




"Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to
"Noo, noo, noooo noo Nooo no Nooo Nooo no noo nooooooo noo no

Nantucket," soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb's
Noooooooo," nooooooooooo Nooooooo nooooooo, nooooooo no Noooo'n

question. "The gale that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it
nooooooo. "Noo nooo nooo noo noooooo no no no noooo no, no noo nooo no

into a fair wind that will drive us towards home. Yonder, to windward,
nooo n nooo nooo nooo nooo noooo no noooooo nooo. Nooooo, no nooooooo,

all is blackness of doom; but to leeward, homeward--I see it lightens up
noo no noooooooo no nooo; noo no noooooo, nooooooo--N noo no nooooooo no

there; but not with the lightning."
noooo; noo noo nooo noo noooooooo."




At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness, following
No nooo nooooo no noo no noo noooooooo no nooooooo nooooooo, noooooooo

the flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same
noo noooooo, n noooo noo noooo no noo nooo; noo nooooo no noo nooo

instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.
noooooo n nooooo no noooooo noooo nooooo nooooooo.




"Who's there?"
"Noo'n noooo?"




"Old Thunder!" said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his
"Noo Noooooo!" nooo Nooo, noooooo noo noo noooo noo nooooooo no noo

pivot-hole; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed
noooo-nooo; noo nooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooo noooo no noo no noooooo

lances of fire.
nooooo no nooo.




Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off
Noo, no noo noooooooo noo no n noooo no noooo no nooooooo no noooo noo

the perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some
noo nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooo; no noo noooooo noo noooo no noo nooo

ships carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water. But
noooo noooo no nooo nooo, no nooooooo no noooooo no nooo noo noooo. Noo

as this conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may
no nooo noooooooo nooo noooooo no nooooooooooo noooo, nooo noo noo noo

avoid all contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly
noooo noo noooooo nooo noo nooo; noo no nooooooo, no nooo nooooooooo

towing there, it would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering
nooooo noooo, no noooo no nooooo no nooo noooooo, noooooo noooooooooo

not a little with some of the rigging, and more or less impeding the
noo n nooooo nooo nooo no noo noooooo, noo nooo no nooo nooooooo noo

vessel's way in the water; because of all this, the lower parts of a
nooooo'n noo no noo noooo; noooooo no noo nooo, noo noooo noooo no n

ship's lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made
nooo'n noooooooo-nooo noo noo nooooo noooooooo; noo noo noooooooo nooo

in long slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the
no nooo noooooo noooo, no no no no noo nooo noooooo nooooo no nooo noo

chains outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.
nooooo noooooo, no nooooo nooo nooo noo noo, no nooooooo noo noooooo.




"The rods! the rods!" cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to
"Noo nooo! noo nooo!" noooo Nooooooo no noo nooo, nooooooo nooooooooo no

vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux,
noooooooo no noo noooo noooooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo noooooooo,

to light Ahab to his post. "Are they overboard? drop them over, fore and
no noooo Nooo no noo nooo. "Noo nooo noooooooo? nooo nooo nooo, nooo noo

aft. Quick!"
noo. Noooo!"




"Avast!" cried Ahab; "let's have fair play here, though we be the weaker
"Noooo!" noooo Nooo; "noo'n nooo nooo nooo nooo, nooooo no no noo nooooo

side. Yet I'll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that
nooo. Noo N'no nooooooooo no noooo nooo no noo Noooooooo noo Noooo, nooo

all the world may be secured; but out on privileges! Let them be, sir."
noo noo noooo noo no noooooo; noo noo no nooooooooo! Noo nooo no, noo."




"Look aloft!" cried Starbuck. "The corpusants! the corpusants!"
"Nooo noooo!" noooo Nooooooo. "Noo nooooooooo! noo nooooooooo!"




All the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each
Noo noo nooo-nooo nooo nooooo nooo n nooooo nooo; noo noooooo no nooo

tri-pointed lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of
noo-noooooo noooooooo-noo-noo nooo noooo nooooooo noooo nooooo, nooo no

the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like
noo noooo nooo noooo noo nooooooo noooooo no nooo nooooooooo noo, nooo

three gigantic wax tapers before an altar.
noooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooooo no noooo.




"Blast the boat! let it go!" cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing
"Noooo noo nooo! noo no no!" noooo Noooo no nooo noooooo, no n nooooooo

sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violently
noo nooooo no noooo noo noo nooooo noooo, no nooo noo noooooo noooooooo

jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing. "Blast it!"--but
nooooo noo nooo, no no noo noooooo n noooooo. "Noooo no!"--noo

slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
nooooooo nooooooo no noo nooo, noo nooooooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo; noo

immediately shifting his tone he cried--"The corpusants have mercy on us
noooooooooo nooooooo noo nooo no noooo--"Noo nooooooooo nooo noooo no no

all!"
noo!"




To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of
No noooooo, noooo noo noooooooo noooo; nooo nooo noooo no noo nooooo no

the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses
noo nooo, noo no noo noooo no noo noooooo; nooo nooo noooooooo nooooo

from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething
nooo noo noooooo-nooo-nooo, nooo nooo nooo nooooo nooo no n nooooooo

sea; but in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when
noo; noo no noo no noooooooo, nooooo nooo N noooo n nooooo nooo nooo

God's burning finger has been laid on the ship; when His "Mene, Mene,
Noo'n noooooo nooooo noo nooo nooo no noo nooo; nooo Noo "Nooo, Nooo,

Tekel Upharsin" has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.
Noooo Nooooooo" noo nooo noooo nooo noo noooooo noo noo noooooo.




While this pallidness was burning aloft, few words were heard from the
Noooo nooo nooooooooo noo noooooo noooo, noo noooo nooo noooo nooo noo

enchanted crew; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle,
noooooooo nooo; noo no noo noooo noooooo noooo no noo nooooooooo,

all their eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence, like a far away
noo noooo nooo nooooooo no nooo nooo noooooooooooooo, nooo n noo nooo

constellation of stars. Relieved against the ghostly light, the gigantic
noooooooooooo no noooo. Nooooooo noooooo noo noooooo noooo, noo nooooooo

jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his real stature, and seemed
noo noooo, Nooooo, nooooo no no nooooo noo nooo noooooo, noo nooooo

the black cloud from which the thunder had come. The parted mouth of
noo noooo noooo nooo noooo noo noooooo noo nooo. Noo nooooo noooo no

Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely gleamed as
Nooooooo nooooooo noo noooo-noooo noooo, noooo noooooooo noooooo no

if they too had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the
no nooo noo noo nooo nooooo no nooooooooo; noooo noo no no noo

preternatural light, Queequeg's tattooing burned like Satanic blue
noooooooooooo noooo, Nooooooo'n noooooooo nooooo nooo Noooooo nooo

flames on his body.
nooooo no noo nooo.




The tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more
Noo noooooo noo noooo no nooo nooo noo nooooooooo noooo; noo nooo nooo

the Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall. A moment
noo Nooooo noo noooo nooo no noo noooo nooo noooooo no n nooo. N nooooo

or two passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one. It
no noo nooooo, nooo Nooooooo, noooo noooooo, nooooo noooooo nooo noo. No

was Stubb. "What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the
noo Noooo. "Nooo nooooooo nooo noo, noo; N noooo noo noo; no noo noo noo

same in the song."
nooo no noo nooo."




"No, no, it wasn't; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I
"No, no, no nooo'n; N nooo noo nooooooooo nooo noooo no no noo; noo N

hope they will, still. But do they only have mercy on long faces?--have
nooo nooo nooo, noooo. Noo no nooo nooo nooo noooo no nooo noooo?--nooo

they no bowels for a laugh? And look ye, Mr. Starbuck--but it's too dark
nooo no nooooo noo n noooo? Noo nooo no, No. Nooooooo--noo no'n noo nooo

to look. Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign
no nooo. Nooo no, nooo: N nooo nooo nooo-nooo noooo no noo noo n nooo

of good luck; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be
no nooo nooo; noo noooo noooo noo nooooo no n nooo nooo no noooo no no

chock a' block with sperm-oil, d'ye see; and so, all that sperm will
noooo n' noooo nooo noooo-noo, n'no noo; noo no, noo nooo noooo nooo

work up into the masts, like sap in a tree. Yes, our three masts will
nooo no nooo noo noooo, nooo noo no n nooo. Noo, noo noooo noooo nooo

yet be as three spermaceti candles--that's the good promise we saw."
noo no no noooo nooooooooo noooooo--nooo'n noo nooo noooooo no noo."




At that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb's face slowly beginning
No nooo nooooo Nooooooo nooooo noooo no Noooo'n nooo nooooo noooooooo

to glimmer into sight. Glancing upwards, he cried: "See! see!" and once
no noooooo nooo noooo. Nooooooo noooooo, no noooo: "Noo! noo!" noo nooo

more the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled
nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooo noooooooo

supernaturalness in their pallor.
nooooooooooooooo no noooo nooooo.




"The corpusants have mercy on us all," cried Stubb, again.
"Noo nooooooooo nooo noooo no no noo," noooo Noooo, noooo.




At the base of the mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame,
No noo nooo no noo nooooooo, nooo noooooo noo nooooooo noo noo noooo,

the Parsee was kneeling in Ahab's front, but with his head bowed away
noo Nooooo noo nooooooo no Nooo'n noooo, noo nooo noo nooo noooo nooo

from him; while near by, from the arched and overhanging rigging, where
nooo noo; noooo nooo no, nooo noo nooooo noo noooooooooo noooooo, noooo

they had just been engaged securing a spar, a number of the seamen,
nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo nooooooo n nooo, n nooooo no noo nooooo,

arrested by the glare, now cohered together, and hung pendulous, like a
nooooooo no noo noooo, noo noooooo nooooooo, noo nooo noooooooo, nooo n

knot of numbed wasps from a drooping, orchard twig. In various enchanted
nooo no nooooo noooo nooo n nooooooo, noooooo nooo. No noooooo noooooooo

attitudes, like the standing, or stepping, or running skeletons in
noooooooo, nooo noo nooooooo, no nooooooo, no noooooo noooooooo no

Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the deck; but all their eyes
Noooooooooo, nooooo nooooooo nooooo no noo nooo; noo noo noooo nooo

upcast.
nooooo.




"Aye, aye, men!" cried Ahab. "Look up at it; mark it well; the white
"Noo, noo, noo!" noooo Nooo. "Nooo no no no; nooo no nooo; noo noooo

flame but lights the way to the White Whale! Hand me those mainmast
noooo noo nooooo noo noo no noo Noooo Noooo! Nooo no noooo nooooooo

links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat against it;
noooo noooo; N noooo nooo nooo nooo noooo, noo noo nooo nooo noooooo no;

blood against fire! So."
noooo noooooo nooo! No."




Then turning--the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot
Nooo noooooo--noo nooo nooo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooo, no noo noo nooo

upon the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, he
nooo noo Nooooo; noo nooo noooo nooooo noo, noo nooo-noooo noooo noo, no

stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.
noooo noooo nooooo noo noooo noo-noooooo noooooo no nooooo.




"Oh! thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian
"No! nooo noooo nooooo no noooo nooo, nooo no noooo nooo N no Noooooo

once did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, that to
nooo noo noooooo, nooo no noo noooooooooo noo no nooooo no nooo, nooo no

this hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now
nooo nooo N nooo noo nooo; N noo nooo nooo, nooo noooo nooooo, noo N noo

know that thy right worship is defiance. To neither love nor reverence
nooo nooo noo noooo noooooo no nooooooo. No noooooo nooo noo noooooooo

wilt thou be kind; and e'en for hate thou canst but kill; and all
nooo nooo no nooo; noo n'no noo nooo nooo noooo noo nooo; noo noo

are killed. No fearless fool now fronts thee. I own thy speechless,
noo nooooo. No nooooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo. N noo noo nooooooooo,

placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will
noooooooo noooo; noo no noo nooo nooo no no nooooooooo nooo nooo

dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me. In the midst of the
noooooo noo noooooooooooo, nooooooooo noooooo no no. No noo noooo no noo

personified impersonal, a personality stands here. Though but a point at
noooooooooo nooooooooo, n noooooooooo nooooo nooo. Nooooo noo n noooo no

best; whencesoe'er I came; wheresoe'er I go; yet while I earthly live,
nooo; noooooooo'no N nooo; nooooooo'no N no; noo noooo N noooooo nooo,

the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights. But war
noo noooooo noooooooooo noooo no no, noo noooo noo noooo nooooo. Noo noo

is pain, and hate is woe. Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will
no nooo, noo nooo no noo. Nooo no noo nooooo nooo no nooo, noo N nooo

kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power;
noooo noo nooo nooo; noo no noo noooooo, nooo no nooo nooooooo noooo;

and though thou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there's that
noo nooooo nooo noooooooo nooooo no nooo-noooooooo nooooo, noooo'n nooo

in here that still remains indifferent. Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy
no nooo nooo noooo noooooo noooooooooo. No, nooo noooo nooooo, no noo

fire thou madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to
nooo nooo nooooo no, noo nooo n nooo noooo no nooo, N noooooo no nooo no

thee."
nooo."




[SUDDEN, REPEATED FLASHES OF LIGHTNING; THE NINE FLAMES LEAP LENGTHWISE
[NOOOOO, NOOOOOOO NOOOOOO NO NOOOOOOOO; NOO NOOO NOOOOO NOOO NOOOOOOOOO

TO THRICE THEIR PREVIOUS HEIGHT; AHAB, WITH THE REST, CLOSES HIS EYES,
NO NOOOOO NOOOO NOOOOOOO NOOOOO; NOOO, NOOO NOO NOOO, NOOOOO NOO NOOO,

HIS RIGHT HAND PRESSED HARD UPON THEM.]
NOO NOOOO NOOO NOOOOOO NOOO NOOO NOOO.]




"I own thy speechless, placeless power; said I not so? Nor was it wrung
"N noo noo nooooooooo, noooooooo noooo; nooo N noo no? Noo noo no noooo

from me; nor do I now drop these links. Thou canst blind; but I can then
nooo no; noo no N noo nooo noooo noooo. Nooo noooo noooo; noo N noo nooo

grope. Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes. Take the homage of
noooo. Nooo noooo noooooo; noo N noo nooo no noooo. Nooo noo nooooo no

these poor eyes, and shutter-hands. I would not take it. The lightning
noooo nooo nooo, noo noooooo-noooo. N noooo noo nooo no. Noo noooooooo

flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and ache; my whole beaten
noooooo noooooo no noooo; nooo noo-noooo nooo noo nooo; no noooo nooooo

brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning ground. Oh, oh!
noooo noooo no nooooooo, noo noooooo no nooo nooooooo nooooo. No, no!

Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee. Light though thou be, thou
Noo noooooooo, noo nooo N nooo no nooo. Noooo nooooo nooo no, nooo

leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light, leaping
noooooo noo no nooooooo; noo N no nooooooo noooooo noo no noooo, noooooo

out of thee! The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not? There burn the
noo no nooo! Noo nooooooo noooo; nooo nooo; noo, no noo? Noooo nooo noo

flames! Oh, thou magnanimous! now I do glory in my genealogy. But thou
nooooo! No, nooo noooooooooo! noo N no noooo no no noooooooo. Noo nooo

art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not. Oh, cruel! what
noo noo no noooo nooooo; no noooo nooooo, N nooo noo. No, noooo! nooo

hast thou done with her? There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater.
nooo nooo nooo nooo noo? Noooo nooo no nooooo; noo noooo no noooooo.

Thou knowest not how came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten;
Nooo noooooo noo noo nooo no, noooo noooooo noooooo nooooooooo;

certainly knowest not thy beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun. I
noooooooo noooooo noo noo noooooooo, noooo noooooo noooooo noooooo. N

know that of me, which thou knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent.
nooo nooo no no, noooo nooo noooooo noo no noooooo, no, nooo nooooooooo.

There is some unsuffusing thing beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom
Noooo no nooo noooooooooo noooo nooooo nooo, nooo noooo nooooo, no nooo

all thy eternity is but time, all thy creativeness mechanical. Through
noo noo nooooooo no noo nooo, noo noo nooooooooooo nooooooooo. Noooooo

thee, thy flaming self, my scorched eyes do dimly see it. Oh, thou
nooo, noo noooooo nooo, no nooooooo nooo no noooo noo no. No, nooo

foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou too hast thy incommunicable
noooooooo nooo, nooo nooooo nooooooooo, nooo noo nooo noo nooooooooooooo

riddle, thy unparticipated grief. Here again with haughty agony, I read
nooooo, noo nooooooooooooo noooo. Nooo noooo nooo noooooo noooo, N nooo

my sire. Leap! leap up, and lick the sky! I leap with thee; I burn with
no nooo. Nooo! nooo no, noo nooo noo noo! N nooo nooo nooo; N nooo nooo

thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyingly I worship thee!"
nooo; noooo nooo no nooooo nooo nooo; noooooooo N noooooo nooo!"




"The boat! the boat!" cried Starbuck, "look at thy boat, old man!"
"Noo nooo! noo nooo!" noooo Nooooooo, "nooo no noo nooo, noo noo!"




Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth's fire, remained firmly lashed
Nooo'n noooooo, noo noo nooooo no Noooo'n nooo, nooooooo nooooo nooooo

in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat's
no noo noooooooooo nooooo, no nooo no noooooooo nooooo noo noooo-nooo'n

bow; but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather
noo; noo noo noo nooo noo noooo noo nooooo noo nooooo noo noooo noooooo

sheath to drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a
nooooo no nooo noo; noo nooo noo nooo noooo nooo noooo noo nooo n

levelled flame of pale, forked fire. As the silent harpoon burned there
nooooooo noooo no nooo, nooooo nooo. No noo nooooo noooooo nooooo noooo

like a serpent's tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm--"God, God
nooo n noooooo'n nooooo, Nooooooo noooooo Nooo no noo noo--"Noo, Noo

is against thee, old man; forbear! 'tis an ill voyage! ill begun, ill
no noooooo nooo, noo noo; noooooo! 'noo no noo nooooo! noo noooo, noo

continued; let me square the yards, while we may, old man, and make a
noooooooo; noo no nooooo noo noooo, noooo no noo, noo noo, noo nooo n

fair wind of it homewards, to go on a better voyage than this."
nooo nooo no no noooooooo, no no no n nooooo nooooo nooo nooo."




Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken crew instantly ran to the
Noooooooooo Nooooooo, noo noooo-nooooooo nooo noooooooo noo no noo

braces--though not a sail was left aloft. For the moment all the aghast
nooooo--nooooo noo n nooo noo nooo noooo. Noo noo nooooo noo noo nooooo

mate's thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half mutinous cry. But
nooo'n nooooooo nooooo nooooo; nooo nooooo n nooo nooooooo noo. Noo

dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and snatching the
noooooo noo nooooooo noooooooo noooo no noo nooo, noo noooooooo noo

burning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them; swearing to
noooooo noooooo, Nooo noooo no nooo n noooo noooo nooo; nooooooo no

transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope's end.
nooooooo nooo no noo noooo nooooo nooo noo nooo noooo n nooo'n noo.

Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart
Noooooooo no noo nooooo, noo noooo nooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo nooo

that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke:--
nooo no nooo, noo noo nooo nooo no nooooo, noo Nooo noooo noooo:--




"All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and
"Noo nooo noooo no nooo noo Noooo Noooo noo no noooooo no nooo; noo

heart, soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that ye
noooo, nooo, noo nooo, noooo noo nooo, noo Nooo no noooo. Noo nooo no

may know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out
noo nooo no nooo nooo nooo noooo noooo; nooo no nooo; nooo N nooo noo

the last fear!" And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the
noo nooo nooo!" Noo nooo noo noooo no noo nooooo no nooooooooooo noo

flame.
noooo.




As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood of
No no noo noooooooo nooo nooooo noo noooo, noo noo noo nooooooooooo no

some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render it so
nooo nooo, nooooooo noo, noooo nooo nooooo noo nooooooo noo nooooo no no

much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts;
nooo noo nooo nooooo, noooooo no nooo noo nooo n nooo noo nooooooooooo;

so at those last words of Ahab's many of the mariners did run from him
no no noooo nooo noooo no Nooo'n nooo no noo nooooooo noo noo nooo noo

in a terror of dismay.
no n nooooo no nooooo.










CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooo Noooooo noo Noo no noo Noooo Noooo Noooo.




AHAB STANDING BY THE HELM. STARBUCK APPROACHING HIM.
NOOO NOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOO. NOOOOOOO NOOOOOOOOOO NOO.







"We must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is working loose
"No nooo nooo nooo noo nooo-noo-nooo nooo, noo. Noo nooo no noooooo noooo

and the lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir?"
noo noo noo nooo no nooo-nooooooo. Noooo N nooooo no, noo?"




"Strike nothing; lash it. If I had sky-sail poles, I'd sway them up
"Nooooo noooooo; nooo no. No N noo noo-nooo noooo, N'n nooo nooo no

now."
noo."




"Sir!--in God's name!--sir?"
"Noo!--no Noo'n nooo!--noo?"




"Well."
"Nooo."




"The anchors are working, sir. Shall I get them inboard?"
"Noo noooooo noo noooooo, noo. Noooo N noo nooo noooooo?"




"Strike nothing, and stir nothing, but lash everything. The wind rises,
"Nooooo noooooo, noo nooo noooooo, noo nooo nooooooooo. Noo nooo noooo,

but it has not got up to my table-lands yet. Quick, and see to it.--By
noo no noo noo noo no no no noooo-noooo noo. Noooo, noo noo no no.--No

masts and keels! he takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some
noooo noo noooo! no noooo no noo noo noooo-nooooo noooooo no nooo

coasting smack. Send down my main-top-sail yard! Ho, gluepots! Loftiest
nooooooo noooo. Nooo nooo no nooo-noo-nooo nooo! No, nooooooo! Nooooooo

trucks were made for wildest winds, and this brain-truck of mine now
nooooo nooo nooo noo noooooo noooo, noo nooo noooo-noooo no nooo noo

sails amid the cloud-scud. Shall I strike that? Oh, none but cowards
noooo nooo noo noooo-nooo. Noooo N nooooo nooo? No, nooo noo noooooo

send down their brain-trucks in tempest time. What a hooroosh aloft
nooo nooo noooo noooo-nooooo no noooooo nooo. Nooo n nooooooo noooo

there! I would e'en take it for sublime, did I not know that the colic
noooo! N noooo n'no nooo no noo noooooo, noo N noo nooo nooo noo noooo

is a noisy malady. Oh, take medicine, take medicine!"
no n noooo nooooo. No, nooo nooooooo, nooo nooooooo!"










CHAPTER 121. Midnight.--The Forecastle Bulwarks.
NOOOOOO noo. Nooooooo.--Noo Nooooooooo Nooooooo.







STUBB AND FLASK MOUNTED ON THEM, AND PASSING ADDITIONAL LASHINGS OVER
NOOOO NOO NOOOO NOOOOOO NO NOOO, NOO NOOOOOO NOOOOOOOOO NOOOOOOO NOOO

THE ANCHORS THERE HANGING.
NOO NOOOOOO NOOOO NOOOOOO.







"No, Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please, but you
"No, Noooo; noo noo noooo nooo nooo noooo no nooo no noo nooooo, noo noo

will never pound into me what you were just now saying. And how long
nooo noooo noooo nooo no nooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooo. Noo noo nooo

ago is it since you said the very contrary? Didn't you once say that
noo no no noooo noo nooo noo nooo nooooooo? Nooo'n noo nooo noo nooo

whatever ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its
nooooooo nooo Nooo noooo no, nooo nooo nooooo noo noooooooo noooo no noo

insurance policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft
noooooooo nooooo, nooo no nooooo no nooo nooooo nooo nooooo noooooo noo

and boxes of lucifers forward? Stop, now; didn't you say so?"
noo noooo no nooooooo noooooo? Nooo, noo; nooo'n noo noo no?"




"Well, suppose I did? What then? I've part changed my flesh since that
"Nooo, noooooo N noo? Nooo nooo? N'no nooo noooooo no noooo noooo nooo

time, why not my mind? Besides, supposing we ARE loaded with powder
nooo, noo noo no nooo? Noooooo, noooooooo no NOO nooooo nooo nooooo

barrels aft and lucifers forward; how the devil could the lucifers get
noooooo noo noo nooooooo noooooo; noo noo noooo noooo noo nooooooo noo

afire in this drenching spray here? Why, my little man, you have
noooo no nooo noooooooo noooo nooo? Noo, no nooooo noo, noo nooo

pretty red hair, but you couldn't get afire now. Shake yourself; you're
nooooo noo nooo, noo noo nooooo'n noo noooo noo. Noooo nooooooo; noo'no

Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers at your coat
Nooooooo, no noo noooo-nooooo, Noooo; noooo nooo nooooooo no nooo nooo

collar. Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine
nooooo. Noo'n noo noo, nooo, nooo noo noooo noooo noooo noo Nooooo

Insurance companies have extra guarantees? Here are hydrants, Flask. But
Noooooooo noooooooo nooo noooo nooooooooo? Nooo noo nooooooo, Noooo. Noo

hark, again, and I'll answer ye the other thing. First take your leg off
nooo, noooo, noo N'no nooooo no noo noooo noooo. Noooo nooo nooo noo noo

from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope;
nooo noo noooo no noo nooooo nooo, nooooo, no N noo nooo noo nooo;

now listen. What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's
noo nooooo. Nooo'n noo nooooo nooooooooo noooooo noooooo n nooo'n

lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't
noooooooo-noo no noo noooo, noo nooooooo noooo no n nooo nooo nooo'n

got any lightning-rod at all in a storm? Don't you see, you timber-head,
noo noo noooooooo-noo no noo no n noooo? Noo'n noo noo, noo nooooo-nooo,

that no harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first
nooo no nooo noo nooo no noo nooooo no noo noo, nooooo noo nooo no noooo

struck? What are you talking about, then? Not one ship in a hundred
nooooo? Nooo noo noo noooooo noooo, nooo? Noo noo nooo no n noooooo

carries rods, and Ahab,--aye, man, and all of us,--were in no more
noooooo nooo, noo Nooo,--noo, noo, noo noo no no,--nooo no no nooo

danger then, in my poor opinion, than all the crews in ten thousand
nooooo nooo, no no nooo noooooo, nooo noo noo noooo no noo nooooooo

ships now sailing the seas. Why, you King-Post, you, I suppose you would
noooo noo noooooo noo nooo. Noo, noo Nooo-Nooo, noo, N noooooo noo noooo

have every man in the world go about with a small lightning-rod running
nooo noooo noo no noo noooo no noooo nooo n noooo noooooooo-noo noooooo

up the corner of his hat, like a militia officer's skewered feather,
no noo nooooo no noo noo, nooo n noooooo noooooo'n nooooooo noooooo,

and trailing behind like his sash. Why don't ye be sensible, Flask? it's
noo nooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo. Noo noo'n no no nooooooo, Noooo? no'n

easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then? any man with half an eye can be
nooo no no nooooooo; noo noo'n no, nooo? noo noo nooo nooo no noo noo no

sensible."
nooooooo."




"I don't know that, Stubb. You sometimes find it rather hard."
"N noo'n nooo nooo, Noooo. Noo noooooooo nooo no nooooo nooo."




"Yes, when a fellow's soaked through, it's hard to be sensible, that's
"Noo, nooo n nooooo'n nooooo noooooo, no'n nooo no no nooooooo, nooo'n

a fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch the
n nooo. Noo N no noooo nooooooo nooo nooo noooo. Noooo nooo; noooo noo

turn there, and pass it. Seems to me we are lashing down these anchors
nooo noooo, noo nooo no. Noooo no no no noo noooooo nooo noooo noooooo

now as if they were never going to be used again. Tying these two
noo no no nooo nooo noooo noooo no no nooo noooo. Noooo noooo noo

anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man's hands behind him. And what
noooooo nooo, Noooo, noooo nooo noooo n noo'n noooo nooooo noo. Noo nooo

big generous hands they are, to be sure. These are your iron fists,
noo nooooooo noooo nooo noo, no no nooo. Noooo noo nooo nooo noooo,

hey? What a hold they have, too! I wonder, Flask, whether the world is
noo? Nooo n nooo nooo nooo, noo! N nooooo, Noooo, noooooo noo noooo no

anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable,
nooooooo nooooooo; no noo no, noo nooooo nooo no nooooooo nooo noooo,

though. There, hammer that knot down, and we've done. So; next to
nooooo. Noooo, nooooo nooo nooo nooo, noo no'no nooo. No; nooo no

touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory. I say, just
nooooooo nooo, nooooooo no nooo no noo nooo nooooooooooo. N noo, nooo

wring out my jacket skirts, will ye? Thank ye. They laugh at long-togs
noooo noo no nooooo nooooo, nooo no? Noooo no. Nooo noooo no nooo-nooo

so, Flask; but seems to me, a Long tailed coat ought always to be worn
no, Noooo; noo noooo no no, n Nooo nooooo nooo noooo nooooo no no nooo

in all storms afloat. The tails tapering down that way, serve to carry
no noo nooooo nooooo. Noo noooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo, noooo no noooo

off the water, d'ye see. Same with cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end
noo noo noooo, n'no noo. Nooo nooo nooooo nooo; noo noooo nooo noooo-noo

eave-troughs, Flask. No more monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I
nooo-noooooo, Noooo. No nooo nooooo-noooooo noo nooooooooo noo no; N

must mount a swallow-tail, and drive down a beaver; so. Halloa! whew!
nooo noooo n noooooo-nooo, noo noooo nooo n nooooo; no. Nooooo! nooo!

there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord, Lord, that the winds that come
noooo nooo no noooooooo noooooooo; Nooo, Nooo, nooo noo noooo nooo nooo

from heaven should be so unmannerly! This is a nasty night, lad."
nooo nooooo nooooo no no nooooooooo! Nooo no n noooo noooo, noo."










CHAPTER 122. Midnight Aloft.--Thunder and Lightning.
NOOOOOO noo. Nooooooo Noooo.--Noooooo noo Noooooooo.







THE MAIN-TOP-SAIL YARD.--TASHTEGO PASSING NEW LASHINGS AROUND IT.
NOO NOOO-NOO-NOOO NOOO.--NOOOOOOO NOOOOOO NOO NOOOOOOO NOOOOO NO.







"Um, um, um. Stop that thunder! Plenty too much thunder up here. What's
"No, no, no. Nooo nooo noooooo! Nooooo noo nooo noooooo no nooo. Nooo'n

the use of thunder? Um, um, um. We don't want thunder; we want rum; give
noo noo no noooooo? No, no, no. No noo'n nooo noooooo; no nooo noo; nooo

us a glass of rum. Um, um, um!"
no n noooo no noo. No, no, no!"










CHAPTER 123. The Musket.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooo.







During the most violent shocks of the Typhoon, the man at the Pequod's
Nooooo noo nooo noooooo nooooo no noo Noooooo, noo noo no noo Nooooo'n

jaw-bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by
noo-nooo nooooo noo noooooo noooo nooo noooooooo nooooo no noo nooo no

its spasmodic motions, even though preventer tackles had been attached
noo noooooooo noooooo, nooo nooooo noooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooo

to it--for they were slack--because some play to the tiller was
no no--noo nooo nooo noooo--noooooo nooo nooo no noo nooooo noo

indispensable.
noooooooooooo.




In a severe gale like this, while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecock
No n nooooo nooo nooo nooo, noooo noo nooo no noo n nooooo noooooooooo

to the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in the
no noo noooo, no no no no noooo nooooooo no noo noo noooooo no noo

compasses, at intervals, go round and round. It was thus with the
noooooooo, no noooooooo, no noooo noo noooo. No noo nooo nooo noo

Pequod's; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice
Nooooo'n; no nooooo noooo noooo noo nooooooo noo noo nooooo no nooooo

the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is
noo nooooooo nooooooo nooo noooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo; no no

a sight that hardly anyone can behold without some sort of unwonted
n noooo nooo nooooo nooooo noo nooooo noooooo nooo nooo no nooooooo

emotion.
noooooo.




Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the
Nooo noooo noooo nooooooo, noo Noooooo nooooo no nooo, nooo noooooo noo

strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb--one engaged forward and the
noooooooo noooooooo no Nooooooo noo Noooo--noo noooooo noooooo noo noo

other aft--the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails
noooo noo--noo nooooooo nooooooo no noo noo noo nooo noo nooo-noo-noooo

were cut adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like
nooo noo nooooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo noooooo nooo no noooooo, nooo

the feathers of an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds when
noo nooooooo no no noooooooo, noooo noooooooo noo nooo no noo noooo nooo

that storm-tossed bird is on the wing.
nooo noooo-nooooo nooo no no noo nooo.




The three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed, and a
Noo noooo noooooooooooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo noo nooooo, noo n

storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went through
noooo-noooooo noo noo noooooo noo; no nooo noo nooo nooo nooo noooooo

the water with some precision again; and the course--for the present,
noo noooo nooo nooo noooooooo noooo; noo noo nooooo--noo noo noooooo,

East-south-east--which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more
Nooo-noooo-nooo--noooo no noo no noooo, no noooooooooo, noo nooo nooo

given to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had only
noooo no noo nooooooo. Noo nooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo, no noo nooo

steered according to its vicissitudes. But as he was now bringing the
noooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooooooo. Noo no no noo noo nooooooo noo

ship as near her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo!
nooo no nooo noo nooooo no nooooooo, nooooooo noo noooooo noooooooo, no!

a good sign! the wind seemed coming round astern; aye, the foul breeze
n nooo nooo! noo nooo nooooo nooooo noooo nooooo; noo, noo nooo nooooo

became fair!
nooooo nooo!




Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of "HO! THE
Noooooooo noo noooo nooo noooooo, no noo nooooo nooo no "NO! NOO

FAIR WIND! OH-YE-HO, CHEERLY MEN!" the crew singing for joy, that so
NOOO NOOO! NO-NO-NO, NOOOOOO NOO!" noo nooo noooooo noo noo, nooo no

promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents
noooooooo no noooo nooooo no nooo nooo noooooooo noo nooo nooooooo

preceding it.
noooooooo no.




In compliance with the standing order of his commander--to report
No nooooooooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo no noo noooooooo--no nooooo

immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change
noooooooooo, noo no noo noo no noo nooooo-nooo noooo, noo noooooo nooooo

in the affairs of the deck,--Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to
no noo noooooo no noo nooo,--Nooooooo noo no nooooo noooooo noo noooo no

the breeze--however reluctantly and gloomily,--than he mechanically went
noo nooooo--noooooo noooooooooo noo nooooooo,--nooo no nooooooooooo nooo

below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.
noooo no noooooo Noooooo Nooo no noo nooooooooooo.




Ere knocking at his state-room, he involuntarily paused before it
Noo nooooooo no noo noooo-nooo, no noooooooooooo nooooo nooooo no

a moment. The cabin lamp--taking long swings this way and that--was
n nooooo. Noo noooo nooo--nooooo nooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooo--noo

burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the old man's bolted
noooooo nooooooo, noo noooooo nooooo noooooo nooo noo noo noo'n nooooo

door,--a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of upper panels.
nooo,--n nooo noo, nooo noooo nooooo nooooooo, no noooo no noooo nooooo.

The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming
Noo nooooooo noooooooooooooooo no noo noooo nooo n noooooo noooooo

silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of
noooooo no noooo noooo, nooooo no noo nooooo noooo no noo noo nooo no

the elements. The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as
noo nooooooo. Noo nooooo noooooo no noo nooo nooo noooooooo nooooooo, no

they stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an honest,
nooo noooo noooooo noooooo noo noooooo nooooooo. Nooooooo noo no nooooo,

upright man; but out of Starbuck's heart, at that instant when he saw
noooooo noo; noo noo no Nooooooo'n noooo, no nooo noooooo nooo no noo

the muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with
noo noooooo, noooo noooooooo noooooo no nooo noooooo; noo no noooo nooo

its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew
noo noooooo no nooo nooooooooooooo nooo noo noo noooooo no nooooo nooo

it for itself.
no noo nooooo.




"He would have shot me once," he murmured, "yes, there's the very musket
"No noooo nooo nooo no nooo," no nooooooo, "noo, noooo'n noo nooo nooooo

that he pointed at me;--that one with the studded stock; let me touch
nooo no noooooo no no;--nooo noo nooo noo noooooo noooo; noo no noooo

it--lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly lances,
no--nooo no. Noooooo, nooo N, noo nooo noooooo no nooo nooooo nooooo,

strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye, aye; and
noooooo, nooo N nooooo noooo no noo. Nooooo? N nooo noo. Noo, noo; noo

powder in the pan;--that's not good. Best spill it?--wait. I'll cure
nooooo no noo noo;--nooo'n noo nooo. Nooo noooo no?--nooo. N'no nooo

myself of this. I'll hold the musket boldly while I think.--I come
nooooo no nooo. N'no nooo noo nooooo nooooo noooo N noooo.--N nooo

to report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and
no nooooo n nooo nooo no noo. Noo noo nooo? Nooo noo noooo noo

doom,--THAT'S fair for Moby Dick. It's a fair wind that's only fair for
nooo,--NOOO'N nooo noo Nooo Nooo. No'n n nooo nooo nooo'n nooo nooo noo

that accursed fish.--The very tube he pointed at me!--the very one;
nooo nooooooo nooo.--Noo nooo nooo no noooooo no no!--noo nooo noo;

THIS one--I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I
NOOO noo--N nooo no nooo; no noooo nooo nooooo no nooo noo nooo noooo N

handle now.--Aye and he would fain kill all his crew. Does he not say
nooooo noo.--Noo noo no noooo nooo nooo noo noo nooo. Nooo no noo noo

he will not strike his spars to any gale? Has he not dashed his heavenly
no nooo noo nooooo noo noooo no noo nooo? Noo no noo nooooo noo nooooooo

quadrant? and in these same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere
nooooooo? noo no noooo nooo nooooooo nooo, nooooo no noo noo noo no nooo

dead reckoning of the error-abounding log? and in this very Typhoon, did
nooo noooooooo no noo noooo-noooooooo noo? noo no nooo nooo Noooooo, noo

he not swear that he would have no lightning-rods? But shall this crazed
no noo noooo nooo no noooo nooo no noooooooo-nooo? Noo noooo nooo nooooo

old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship's company down to doom
noo noo no nooooo nooooooo no nooo n noooo nooo'n noooooo nooo no nooo

with him?--Yes, it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and
nooo noo?--Noo, no noooo nooo noo noo nooooo nooooooo no nooooo noo noo

more, if this ship come to any deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my
nooo, no nooo nooo nooo no noo nooooo nooo; noo nooo no nooooo nooo, no

soul swears this ship will, if Ahab have his way. If, then, he were this
nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooo, no Nooo nooo noo noo. No, nooo, no nooo nooo

instant--put aside, that crime would not be his. Ha! is he muttering in
noooooo--noo noooo, nooo noooo noooo noo no noo. No! no no noooooooo no

his sleep? Yes, just there,--in there, he's sleeping. Sleeping? aye,
noo noooo? Noo, nooo noooo,--no noooo, no'n nooooooo. Nooooooo? noo,

but still alive, and soon awake again. I can't withstand thee, then, old
noo noooo noooo, noo nooo noooo noooo. N noo'n noooooooo nooo, nooo, noo

man. Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to;
noo. Noo noooooooo; noo nooooooooooo; noo nooooooo nooo nooo noooooo no;

all this thou scornest. Flat obedience to thy own flat commands, this is
noo nooo nooo nooooooo. Nooo noooooooo no noo noo nooo nooooooo, nooo no

all thou breathest. Aye, and say'st the men have vow'd thy vow; say'st
noo nooo noooooooo. Noo, noo noo'no noo noo nooo noo'n noo noo; noo'no

all of us are Ahabs. Great God forbid!--But is there no other way? no
noo no no noo Noooo. Noooo Noo nooooo!--Noo no noooo no noooo noo? no

lawful way?--Make him a prisoner to be taken home? What! hope to wrest
nooooo noo?--Nooo noo n nooooooo no no noooo nooo? Nooo! nooo no noooo

this old man's living power from his own living hands? Only a fool
nooo noo noo'n nooooo noooo nooo noo noo nooooo noooo? Nooo n nooo

would try it. Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with ropes
noooo noo no. Noo no nooo nooooooo nooo; noooooo noo nooo nooo noooo

and hawsers; chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would
noo noooooo; noooooo nooo no nooo-noooo no nooo noooo noooo; no noooo

be more hideous than a caged tiger, then. I could not endure the
no nooo noooooo nooo n noooo noooo, nooo. N noooo noo nooooo noo

sight; could not possibly fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself,
noooo; noooo noo nooooooo noo noo nooooooo; noo noooooo, noooo nooooo,

inestimable reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage. What,
noooooooooo nooooo noooo noooo no no noo nooo noooooooooo nooooo. Nooo,

then, remains? The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan
nooo, noooooo? Noo nooo no nooooooo no noooooo nooo, noo nooooo Noooo

the nearest. I stand alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and
noo noooooo. N noooo noooo nooo nooo no nooo noo, nooo noo nooooo noo

a whole continent between me and law.--Aye, aye, 'tis so.--Is heaven
n noooo noooooooo noooooo no noo noo.--Noo, noo, 'noo no.--No nooooo

a murderer when its lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed,
n nooooooo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo n noooo-no nooooooo no noo noo,

tindering sheets and skin together?--And would I be a murderer, then,
noooooooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo?--Noo noooo N no n nooooooo, nooo,

if"--and slowly, stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the
no"--noo nooooo, nooooooooo, noo nooo nooooooo noooooo, no nooooo noo

loaded musket's end against the door.
nooooo nooooo'n noo noooooo noo nooo.




"On this level, Ahab's hammock swings within; his head this way. A
"No nooo noooo, Nooo'n noooooo nooooo nooooo; noo nooo nooo noo. N

touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.--Oh
noooo, noo Nooooooo noo noooooo no noo noo nooo noo noooo noooo.--No

Mary! Mary!--boy! boy! boy!--But if I wake thee not to death, old man,
Nooo! Nooo!--noo! noo! noo!--Noo no N nooo nooo noo no noooo, noo noo,

who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck's body this day week
noo noo nooo no nooo noooooooo noooo Nooooooo'n nooo nooo noo nooo

may sink, with all the crew! Great God, where art Thou? Shall I? shall
noo nooo, nooo noo noo nooo! Noooo Noo, noooo noo Nooo? Noooo N? noooo

I?--The wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails
N?--Noo nooo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo, noo; noo nooo noo nooo nooooooo

are reefed and set; she heads her course."
noo nooooo noo noo; noo noooo noo nooooo."




"Stern all! Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart at last!"
"Noooo noo! No Nooo Nooo, N nooooo noo noooo no nooo!"




Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man's
Nooo nooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noo noo noo'n

tormented sleep, as if Starbuck's voice had caused the long dumb dream
noooooooo noooo, no no Nooooooo'n noooo noo nooooo noo nooo nooo noooo

to speak.
no noooo.




The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard's arm against the panel;
Noo noo nooooooo nooooo noooo nooo n nooooooo'n noo noooooo noo noooo;

Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he
Nooooooo nooooo noooooooo nooo no noooo; noo noooooo nooo noo nooo, no

placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.
nooooo noo noooo-nooo no noo nooo, noo nooo noo noooo.




"He's too sound asleep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell
"No'n noo noooo nooooo, No. Noooo; no nooo nooo, noo nooo noo, noo nooo

him. I must see to the deck here. Thou know'st what to say."
noo. N nooo noo no noo nooo nooo. Nooo nooo'no nooo no noo."










CHAPTER 124. The Needle.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooo.







Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of
Nooo noooooo noo noo-noo-nooooooo noo nooooo no nooo nooo noooooo no

mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod's gurgling track, pushed her on
nooooo nooo, noo nooooooo no noo Nooooo'n nooooooo noooo, nooooo noo no

like giants' palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded
nooo nooooo' noooo noooooooo. Noo nooooo, nooooooooooo nooooo nooooooo

so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world
no, nooo noo noo noo nooooo nooo noooooooooo noooo; noo noooo noooo

boomed before the wind. Muffled in the full morning light, the invisible
nooooo nooooo noo nooo. Noooooo no noo nooo noooooo noooo, noo noooooooo

sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place; where his
noo noo nooo noooo no noo nooooo noooooooo no noo noooo; noooo noo

bayonet rays moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crowned Babylonian
noooooo nooo noooo no no nooooo. Nooooooooooo, no no noooooo Nooooooooo

kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as a crucible of
noooo noo nooooo, noooooo nooo nooooooooo. Noo noo noo no n nooooooo no

molten gold, that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.
nooooo nooo, nooo nooooooooo noooo nooo noooo noo nooo.




Long maintaining an enchanted silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time
Nooo noooooooooo no noooooooo noooooo, Nooo noooo noooo; noo noooo nooo

the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to eye
noo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo, no nooooo no noo

the bright sun's rays produced ahead; and when she profoundly settled by
noo nooooo noo'n nooo nooooooo noooo; noo nooo noo nooooooooo noooooo no

the stern, he turned behind, and saw the sun's rearward place, and how
noo noooo, no nooooo nooooo, noo noo noo noo'n nooooooo noooo, noo noo

the same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating wake.
noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooooooo nooo.




"Ha, ha, my ship! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea-chariot of
"No, no, no nooo! nooo nooooooo nooo no noooo noo noo noo noo-noooooo no

the sun. Ho, ho! all ye nations before my prow, I bring the sun to ye!
noo noo. No, no! noo no noooooo nooooo no nooo, N noooo noo noo no no!

Yoke on the further billows; hallo! a tandem, I drive the sea!"
Nooo no noo noooooo noooooo; noooo! n nooooo, N noooo noo noo!"




But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards the
Noo nooooooo nooooo nooo no nooo noooooo noooooo, no noooooo noooooo noo

helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.
nooo, noooooo noooooooo noo noo nooo noo noooooo.




"East-sou-east, sir," said the frightened steersman.
"Nooo-noo-nooo, noo," nooo noo nooooooooo noooooooo.




"Thou liest!" smiting him with his clenched fist. "Heading East at this
"Nooo noooo!" noooooo noo nooo noo nooooooo nooo. "Noooooo Nooo no nooo

hour in the morning, and the sun astern?"
nooo no noo noooooo, noo noo noo nooooo?"




Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then
Nooo nooo noooo nooo noo nooooooooo; noo noo nooooooooo nooo nooo

observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very
nooooooo no Nooo noo noooooooooooo noooooo noooo noo nooo; noo noo nooo

blinding palpableness must have been the cause.
nooooooo nooooooooooo nooo nooo nooo noo noooo.




Thrusting his head half way into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse
Noooooooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo noo nooooooo, Nooo nooooo noo noooooo

of the compasses; his uplifted arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost
no noo noooooooo; noo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo; noo n nooooo no nooooo

seemed to stagger. Standing behind him Starbuck looked, and lo! the two
nooooo no noooooo. Nooooooo nooooo noo Nooooooo nooooo, noo no! noo noo

compasses pointed East, and the Pequod was as infallibly going West.
noooooooo noooooo Nooo, noo noo Nooooo noo no nooooooooo noooo Nooo.




But ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew,
Noo noo noo noooo nooo noooo noooo noo noo nooooo noooo noo nooo,

the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, "I have it! It has happened
noo noo noo nooo n noooo noooo noooooooo, "N nooo no! No noo nooooooo

before. Mr. Starbuck, last night's thunder turned our compasses--that's
nooooo. No. Nooooooo, nooo noooo'n noooooo nooooo noo noooooooo--nooo'n

all. Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take it."
noo. Nooo nooo nooooo noo noooo no nooo n noooo, N nooo no."




"Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir," said the pale mate,
"Noo; noo noooo nooooo noo no nooooooo no no, noo," nooo noo nooo nooo,

gloomily.
nooooooo.




Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in more than
Nooo, no nooo noooo no nooo, nooo noooooooo nooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo

one case occurred to ships in violent storms. The magnetic energy, as
noo nooo nooooooo no noooo no noooooo nooooo. Noo nooooooo nooooo, no

developed in the mariner's needle, is, as all know, essentially one with
noooooooo no noo noooooo'n nooooo, no, no noo nooo, noooooooooo noo nooo

the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be much marvelled
noo noooooooooo nooooo no nooooo; noooo no no noo no no nooo noooooooo

at, that such things should be. Instances where the lightning has
no, nooo nooo nooooo nooooo no. Noooooooo noooo noo noooooooo noo

actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the spars and
nooooooo nooooo noo nooooo, no no no noooo nooo nooo no noo noooo noo

rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still more fatal;
noooooo, noo nooooo nooo noo nooooo noo no noooo nooo noooo nooo noooo;

all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before magnetic
noo noo noooooooo nooooo noooo noooooooooo, no nooo noo nooooo nooooooo

steel was of no more use than an old wife's knitting needle. But in
noooo noo no no nooo noo nooo no noo nooo'n nooooooo nooooo. Noo no

either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers the original
nooooo nooo, noo nooooo noooo noooo, no nooooo, nooooooo noo nooooooo

virtue thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses be affected,
nooooo nooo nooooo no nooo; noo no noo nooooooo noooooooo no nooooooo,

the same fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship; even were
noo nooo nooo noooooo noo noo nooooo nooo noo no no noo nooo; nooo nooo

the lowermost one inserted into the kelson.
noo noooooooo noo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo.




Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and eyeing the transpointed
Nooooooooooo nooooooo nooooo noo nooooooo, noo nooooo noo nooooooooooo

compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his extended hand, now took
noooooooo, noo noo noo, nooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo nooo, noo nooo

the precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that the needles were
noo noooooo noooooo no noo noo, noo noooooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo

exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship's course to be
noooooo nooooooo, noooooo noo noo nooooo noo noo nooo'n nooooo no no

changed accordingly. The yards were hard up; and once more the Pequod
noooooo noooooooooo. Noo noooo nooo nooo no; noo nooo nooo noo Nooooo

thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed fair
nooooo noo noooooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo, noo noo nooooooo nooo

one had only been juggling her.
noo noo nooo nooo nooooooo noo.




Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret thoughts, Starbuck said nothing,
Noooooooo, nooooooo nooo noo noo nooooo nooooooo, Nooooooo nooo noooooo,

but quietly he issued all requisite orders; while Stubb and Flask--who
noo noooooo no nooooo noo noooooooo nooooo; noooo Noooo noo Noooo--noo

in some small degree seemed then to be sharing his feelings--likewise
no nooo noooo nooooo nooooo nooo no no noooooo noo nooooooo--nooooooo

unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though some of them lowly
noooooooooooo nooooooooo. No noo noo noo, nooooo nooo no nooo noooo

rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of Fate. But as
noooooo, noooo nooo no Nooo noo noooooo nooo noooo nooo no Nooo. Noo no

ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly unimpressed;
nooo nooooo, noo noooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooooo nooooo noooooooooo;

or if impressed, it was only with a certain magnetism shot into their
no no noooooooo, no noo nooo nooo n noooooo noooooooo nooo nooo noooo

congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab's.
noooooooo nooooo nooo nooooooooo Nooo'n.




For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But
Noo n noooo noo noo noo nooooo noo nooo no noooooo nooooooo. Noo

chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he saw the crushed copper
nooooooo no nooo nooo noo noooo nooo, no noo noo noooooo nooooo

sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck.
noooo-noooo no noo nooooooo no noo noo noo nooooo nooooo no noo nooo.




"Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun's pilot! yesterday I wrecked
"Nooo nooo, noooo nooooo-noooo noo noo'n noooo! noooooooo N noooooo

thee, and to-day the compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. But
nooo, noo no-noo noo noooooooo noooo nooo nooo noooooo no. No, no. Noo

Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck--a lance without
Nooo no nooo nooo noo noooo noooooooo noo. No. Nooooooo--n noooo noooooo

a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of the sail-maker's needles.
n nooo; n noo-nooo, noo noo nooooooo no noo nooo-noooo'n noooooo.

Quick!"
Noooo!"




Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about
Noooooooo, noooooo, no noo noooooo noooooooo noo noooo no noo noo noooo

to do, were certain prudential motives, whose object might have been to
no no, nooo noooooo nooooooooo noooooo, noooo nooooo noooo nooo nooo no

revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in a
nooooo noo noooooo no noo nooo no n nooooo no noo noooooo noooo, no n

matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses. Besides, the old
nooooo no nooooooo no nooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo. Noooooo, noo noo

man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though clumsily
noo nooo nooo nooo no noooo no nooooooooooo noooooo, nooooo nooooooo

practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious sailors,
noooooooooo, noo noo n noooo no no nooooo nooo no noooooooooooo noooooo,

without some shudderings and evil portents.
noooooo nooo noooooooooo noo nooo nooooooo.




"Men," said he, steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed
"Noo," nooo no, nooooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo, no noo nooo nooooo

him the things he had demanded, "my men, the thunder turned old Ahab's
noo noo nooooo no noo nooooooo, "no noo, noo noooooo nooooo noo Nooo'n

needles; but out of this bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own, that
noooooo; noo noo no nooo noo no noooo Nooo noo nooo noo no noo noo, nooo

will point as true as any."
nooo noooo no nooo no noo."




Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this
Noooooo noooooo no noooooo nooooo nooo noooooooo no noo noooooo, no nooo

was said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might
noo nooo; noo nooo nooooooooo nooo nooo noooooo nooooooo noooo noooo

follow. But Starbuck looked away.
nooooo. Noo Nooooooo nooooo nooo.




With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of the
Nooo n nooo nooo noo noo-nooo Nooo noooooo noo noo noooo nooo no noo

lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining, bade
noooo, noo nooo noooooo no noo nooo noo nooo nooo noo noooooooo, nooo

him hold it upright, without its touching the deck. Then, with the maul,
noo nooo no noooooo, noooooo noo nooooooo noo nooo. Nooo, nooo noo nooo,

after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the
noooo nooooooooo noooooo noo noooo noo no nooo nooo noo, no nooooo noo

blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered
noooooo nooooo noooooo no noo noo no no, noo nooo nooooooo nooooooo

that, several times, the mate still holding the rod as before. Then
nooo, noooooo noooo, noo nooo noooo noooooo noo noo no nooooo. Nooo

going through some small strange motions with it--whether indispensable
noooo noooooo nooo noooo noooooo noooooo nooo no--noooooo noooooooooooo

to the magnetizing of the steel, or merely intended to augment the awe
no noo noooooooooo no noo noooo, no nooooo nooooooo no noooooo noo noo

of the crew, is uncertain--he called for linen thread; and moving to the
no noo nooo, no noooooooo--no nooooo noo noooo nooooo; noo nooooo no noo

binnacle, slipped out the two reversed needles there, and horizontally
nooooooo, noooooo noo noo noo nooooooo noooooo noooo, noo nooooooooooo

suspended the sail-needle by its middle, over one of the compass-cards.
noooooooo noo nooo-nooooo no noo nooooo, nooo noo no noo noooooo-noooo.

At first, the steel went round and round, quivering and vibrating at
No noooo, noo noooo nooo noooo noo noooo, noooooooo noo noooooooo no

either end; but at last it settled to its place, when Ahab, who had
nooooo noo; noo no nooo no noooooo no noo noooo, nooo Nooo, noo noo

been intently watching for this result, stepped frankly back from the
nooo nooooooo nooooooo noo nooo nooooo, noooooo noooooo nooo nooo noo

binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it, exclaimed,--"Look
nooooooo, noo nooooooo noo noooooooo noo noooooo no, noooooooo,--"Nooo

ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not lord of the level loadstone! The sun
no, noo nooooooooo, no Nooo no noo nooo no noo noooo noooooooo! Noo noo

is East, and that compass swears it!"
no Nooo, noo nooo noooooo nooooo no!"




One after another they peered in, for nothing but their own eyes could
Noo noooo noooooo nooo nooooo no, noo noooooo noo noooo noo nooo noooo

persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they slunk
nooooooo nooo noooooooo no nooooo, noo noo noooo noooooo nooo noooo

away.
nooo.




In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all his
No noo noooo nooo no noooo noo noooooo, noo nooo noo Nooo no noo noo

fatal pride.
noooo noooo.










CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noo noo Nooo.







While now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, the log
Noooo noo noo noooo Nooooo noo nooo no nooo nooooo nooo nooooo, noo noo

and line had but very seldom been in use. Owing to a confident reliance
noo nooo noo noo nooo nooooo nooo no noo. Noooo no n noooooooo nooooooo

upon other means of determining the vessel's place, some merchantmen,
nooo noooo noooo no noooooooooo noo nooooo'n noooo, nooo noooooooooo,

and many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heave the
noo nooo nooooooo, nooooooooo nooo nooooooo, nooooo noooooo no noooo noo

log; though at the same time, and frequently more for form's sake than
noo; nooooo no noo nooo nooo, noo nooooooooo nooo noo nooo'n nooo nooo

anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary slate the
nooooooo nooo, noooooooo noooooo nooo nooo noo noooooooo noooo noo

course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of
nooooo noooooo no noo nooo, no nooo no noo nooooooo noooooo nooo no

progression every hour. It had been thus with the Pequod. The wooden
noooooooooo noooo nooo. No noo nooo nooo nooo noo Nooooo. Noo nooooo

reel and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the
nooo noo noooooo noo nooooooo nooo, nooo noooooooo, nooo noooooo noo

railing of the after bulwarks. Rains and spray had damped it; sun and
noooooo no noo noooo nooooooo. Noooo noo noooo noo nooooo no; noo noo

wind had warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that
nooo noo nooooo no; noo noo nooooooo noo nooooooo no noo n noooo nooo

hung so idly. But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he
nooo no nooo. Noo nooooooo no noo nooo, noo nooo nooooo Nooo, no no

happened to glance upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene,
nooooooo no nooooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo noooo noooo noo nooooo noooo,

and he remembered how his quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic
noo no nooooooooo noo noo nooooooo noo no nooo, noo nooooooo noo noooooo

oath about the level log and line. The ship was sailing plungingly;
nooo noooo noo noooo noo noo nooo. Noo nooo noo noooooo nooooooooo;

astern the billows rolled in riots.
nooooo noo noooooo nooooo no noooo.




"Forward, there! Heave the log!"
"Noooooo, noooo! Noooo noo noo!"




Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman. "Take
Noo nooooo nooo. Noo nooooo-nooo Nooooooo noo noo noooooo Noooooo. "Nooo

the reel, one of ye, I'll heave."
noo nooo, noo no no, N'no noooo."




They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship's lee side, where the
Nooo nooo noooooo noo noooooo noooo, no noo nooo'n noo nooo, noooo noo

deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into
nooo, nooo noo noooooo nooooo no noo nooo, noo noo nooooo noooooo nooo

the creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.
noo nooooo, nooooooo-noooooo noo.




The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting
Noo Noooooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooooo no nooo no, no noo nooooooooo

handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, so
nooooo-nooo no noo noooooo, noooo noooo noo noooo no nooo nooooooo, no

stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to him.
noooo nooo noo noooooo noo noooooo noooooooo, nooo Nooo nooooooo no noo.




Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty
Nooo noooo nooooo noo, noo noo noooooo noooooooo nooo nooooo no noooo

turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old
noooo no nooo n noooooooooo nooo-nooo no nooo noooooooo, nooo noo noo

Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
Noooooo, noo noo nooooooo nooooo nooo noo noo noo nooo, nooo nooo no

speak.
noooo.




"Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have
"Noo, N nooooooo no; nooo nooo noooo noo nooo, nooo nooo noo noo nooo

spoiled it."
noooooo no."




"'Twill hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee?
"'Noooo nooo, noo noooooooo. Nooo nooo noo noo, nooo nooo noooooo nooo?

Thou seem'st to hold. Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it."
Nooo nooo'no no nooo. No, noooo noooooo, nooo noooo nooo; noo nooo no."




"I hold the spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With these
"N nooo noo noooo, noo. Noo nooo no no noooooo nooo. Nooo noooo

grey hairs of mine 'tis not worth while disputing, 'specially with a
nooo noooo no nooo 'noo noo noooo noooo noooooooo, 'noooooooo nooo n

superior, who'll ne'er confess."
nooooooo, noo'no no'no noooooo."




"What's that? There now's a patched professor in Queen Nature's
"Nooo'n nooo? Noooo noo'n n noooooo noooooooo no Noooo Nooooo'n

granite-founded College; but methinks he's too subservient. Where wert
noooooo-noooooo Noooooo; noo nooooooo no'n noo noooooooooo. Noooo nooo

thou born?"
nooo nooo?"




"In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir."
"No noo nooooo noooo Nooo no Noo, noo."




"Excellent! Thou'st hit the world by that."
"Noooooooo! Nooo'no noo noo noooo no nooo."




"I know not, sir, but I was born there."
"N nooo noo, noo, noo N noo nooo noooo."




"In the Isle of Man, hey? Well, the other way, it's good. Here's a man
"No noo Nooo no Noo, noo? Nooo, noo noooo noo, no'n nooo. Nooo'n n noo

from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;
nooo Noo; n noo nooo no nooo noooooooooo Noo, noo noo nooooooo no Noo;

which is sucked in--by what? Up with the reel! The dead, blind wall
noooo no nooooo no--no nooo? No nooo noo nooo! Noo nooo, noooo nooo

butts all inquiring heads at last. Up with it! So."
noooo noo noooooooo noooo no nooo. No nooo no! No."




The log was heaved. The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long
Noo noo noo nooooo. Noo noooo noooo noooooo nooooooooooo noo no n nooo

dragging line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to whirl. In
nooooooo nooo nooooo, noo nooo, noooooooo, noo nooo noooo no noooo. No

turn, jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows, the towing
nooo, noooooooo nooooo noo noooooo no noo noooooo noooooo, noo nooooo

resistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely.
nooooooooo no noo noo nooooo noo noo noooooo no noooooo noooooooo.




"Hold hard!"
"Nooo nooo!"




Snap! the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging
Nooo! noo nooooooooooo nooo nooooo nooo no noo nooo noooooo; noo noooooo

log was gone.
noo noo nooo.




"I crush the quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad
"N noooo noo nooooooo, noo noooooo noooo noo noooooo, noo noo noo noo

sea parts the log-line. But Ahab can mend all. Haul in here, Tahitian;
noo noooo noo noo-nooo. Noo Nooo noo nooo noo. Nooo no nooo, Nooooooo;

reel up, Manxman. And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and
nooo no, Noooooo. Noo nooo no, noo noo noooooooo nooo noooooo noo, noo

mend thou the line. See to it."
nooo nooo noo nooo. Noo no no."




"There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer
"Noooo no nooo noo; no noo noooooo'n nooooooo; noo no no, noo nooooo

seems loosening out of the middle of the world. Haul in, haul in,
noooo noooooooo noo no noo nooooo no noo noooo. Nooo no, nooo no,

Tahitian! These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and
Nooooooo! Noooo noooo noo noooo, noo nooooooo noo: nooo no nooooo, noo

dragging slow. Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?"
nooooooo nooo. No, Noo? nooo no nooo; no, Noo?"




"Pip? whom call ye Pip? Pip jumped from the whale-boat. Pip's missing.
"Noo? nooo nooo no Noo? Noo nooooo nooo noo noooo-nooo. Noo'n noooooo.

Let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here, fisherman. It drags
Noo'n noo noo no no noooo'n nooooo noo no nooo, noooooooo. No noooo

hard; I guess he's holding on. Jerk him, Tahiti! Jerk him off; we haul
nooo; N noooo no'n noooooo no. Nooo noo, Nooooo! Nooo noo noo; no nooo

in no cowards here. Ho! there's his arm just breaking water. A hatchet!
no no noooooo nooo. No! noooo'n noo noo nooo nooooooo noooo. N noooooo!

a hatchet! cut it off--we haul in no cowards here. Captain Ahab! sir,
n noooooo! noo no noo--no nooo no no noooooo nooo. Noooooo Nooo! noo,

sir! here's Pip, trying to get on board again."
noo! nooo'n Noo, nooooo no noo no noooo noooo."




"Peace, thou crazy loon," cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.
"Noooo, nooo noooo nooo," noooo noo Noooooo, noooooo noo no noo noo.

"Away from the quarter-deck!"
"Nooo nooo noo noooooo-nooo!"




"The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser," muttered Ahab, advancing.
"Noo noooooo noooo nooo nooooo noo nooooo," nooooooo Nooo, noooooooo.

"Hands off from that holiness! Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
"Noooo noo nooo nooo nooooooo! Noooo nooooo nooo Noo noo, noo?




"Astern there, sir, astern! Lo! lo!"
"Nooooo noooo, noo, nooooo! No! no!"




"And who art thou, boy? I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils of
"Noo noo noo nooo, noo? N noo noo no nooooooooo no noo nooooo nooooo no

thy eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls to sieve
noo nooo. No Noo! nooo noo nooooo no n noooo noo nooooooo noooo no noooo

through! Who art thou, boy?"
noooooo! Noo noo nooo, noo?"




"Bell-boy, sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding! Pip! Pip! Pip!
"Nooo-noo, noo; nooo'n-noooo; nooo, nooo, nooo! Noo! Noo! Noo!

One hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high--looks
Noo noooooo nooooo no nooo nooooo noo Noo; nooo nooo nooo--noooo

cowardly--quickest known by that! Ding, dong, ding! Who's seen Pip the
nooooooo--nooooooo noooo no nooo! Nooo, nooo, nooo! Noo'n nooo Noo noo

coward?"
nooooo?"




"There can be no hearts above the snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens! look
"Noooo noo no no nooooo noooo noo nooo-nooo. No, no nooooo noooooo! nooo

down here. Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandoned him,
nooo nooo. No noo noooo nooo nooooooo noooo, noo nooo noooooooo noo,

ye creative libertines. Here, boy; Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's home
no nooooooo nooooooooo. Nooo, noo; Nooo'n noooo noooo no Noo'n nooo

henceforth, while Ahab lives. Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou
nooooooooo, noooo Nooo noooo. Nooo nooooooo no nooooo nooooo, noo; nooo

art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings. Come, let's down."
noo nooo no no no noooo noooo no no noooo-noooooo. Nooo, noo'n nooo."




"What's this? here's velvet shark-skin," intently gazing at Ahab's hand,
"Nooo'n nooo? nooo'n nooooo noooo-nooo," nooooooo nooooo no Nooo'n nooo,

and feeling it. "Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing as this,
noo noooooo no. "No, noo, noo nooo Noo noo nooo no nooo n noooo no nooo,

perhaps he had ne'er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as a man-rope;
noooooo no noo no'no nooo nooo! Nooo noooo no no, noo, no n noo-nooo;

something that weak souls may hold by. Oh, sir, let old Perth now come
noooooooo nooo nooo noooo noo nooo no. No, noo, noo noo Noooo noo nooo

and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the white, for I
noo noooo noooo noo noooo nooooooo; noo noooo noo nooo noo noooo, noo N

will not let this go."
nooo noo noo nooo no."




"Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse
"No, noo, noo nooo N nooo, nooooo N nooooo noooooo nooo nooo no noooo

horrors than are here. Come, then, to my cabin. Lo! ye believers in
noooooo nooo noo nooo. Nooo, nooo, no no noooo. No! no noooooooo no

gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient gods
nooo noo nooooooo, noo no noo noo noo, no noo! noo noo nooooooooo nooo

oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not
noooooooo no noooooooo noo; noo noo, nooooo noooooo, noo noooooo noo

what he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude. Come!
nooo no nooo, noo nooo no noo noooo nooooo no nooo noo noooooooo. Nooo!

I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an
N nooo noooooo noooooo nooo no noo noooo nooo, nooo nooooo N noooooo no

Emperor's!"
Noooooo'n!"




"There go two daft ones now," muttered the old Manxman. "One daft with
"Noooo no noo nooo nooo noo," nooooooo noo noo Noooooo. "Noo nooo nooo

strength, the other daft with weakness. But here's the end of the rotten
nooooooo, noo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo. Noo nooo'n noo noo no noo nooooo

line--all dripping, too. Mend it, eh? I think we had best have a new
nooo--noo nooooooo, noo. Nooo no, no? N noooo no noo nooo nooo n noo

line altogether. I'll see Mr. Stubb about it."
nooo nooooooooo. N'no noo No. Noooo noooo no."










CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooo-Nooo.







Steering now south-eastward by Ahab's levelled steel, and her progress
Nooooooo noo noooo-nooooooo no Nooo'n nooooooo noooo, noo noo nooooooo

solely determined by Ahab's level log and line; the Pequod held on
nooooo nooooooooo no Nooo'n noooo noo noo nooo; noo Nooooo nooo no

her path towards the Equator. Making so long a passage through such
noo nooo noooooo noo Noooooo. Nooooo no nooo n noooooo noooooo nooo

unfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long, sideways impelled
nooooooooooo nooooo, noooooooo no noooo, noo noo nooo, nooooooo nooooooo

by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild; all these seemed
no noooooooo noooo noooo, nooo noooo nooooooooooo nooo; noo noooo nooooo

the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate scene.
noo noooooo nooo nooooo noooooooo nooo noooooo noo noooooooo noooo.




At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of the
No nooo, nooo noo nooo nooo nooo no noo noooooooo, no no nooo, no noo

Equatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before the
Nooooooooo noooooo-nooooo, noo no noo nooo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooo noo

dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch--then headed
nooo, noo noooooo no n noooooo no noooo nooooo; noo noooo--nooo nooooo

by Flask--was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and unearthly--like
no Noooo--noo nooooooo no n noo no noooooooooo nooo noo noooooooo--nooo

half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod's murdered
nooo-noooooooooo nooooooo no noo nooooo no noo Noooo'n nooooooo

Innocents--that one and all, they started from their reveries, and for
Noooooooo--nooo noo noo noo, nooo noooooo nooo noooo nooooooo, noo noo

the space of some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all transfixedly
noo noooo no nooo noooooo noooo, no noo, no nooooo noo nooooooooooo

listening, like the carved Roman slave, while that wild cry remained
noooooooo, nooo noo nooooo Noooo noooo, noooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo

within hearing. The Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was
nooooo noooooo. Noo Noooooooo no noooooooo nooo no noo nooo nooo no noo

mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled.
nooooooo, noo noooooooo; noo noo noooo noooooooooo nooooooo nooooooooo.

Yet the grey Manxman--the oldest mariner of all--declared that the wild
Noo noo nooo Noooooo--noo nooooo noooooo no noo--nooooooo nooo noo nooo

thrilling sounds that were heard, were the voices of newly drowned men
noooooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo, nooo noo nooooo no noooo noooooo noo

in the sea.
no noo noo.




Below in his hammock, Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn, when
Noooo no noo noooooo, Nooo noo noo nooo no nooo nooo nooo nooo, nooo

he came to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not
no nooo no noo nooo; no noo nooo noooooooo no noo no Noooo, noo

unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings. He hollowly laughed, and thus
noooooooooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooooo. No nooooooo noooooo, noo nooo

explained the wonder.
noooooooo noo nooooo.




Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort of great numbers
Noooo noooo noooooo noo nooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooooo no noooo noooooo

of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams, or some dams
no noooo, noo nooo noooo noooo nooo noo nooo noooo nooo, no nooo nooo

that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and kept company
nooo noo nooo noooo nooo, nooo nooo noooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo noooooo

with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail. But this
nooo noo, nooooo noo noooooo nooo noooo noooo nooo no nooo. Noo nooo

only the more affected some of them, because most mariners cherish a
nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo no nooo, noooooo nooo nooooooo noooooo n

very superstitious feeling about seals, arising not only from their
nooo noooooooooooo noooooo noooo noooo, noooooo noo nooo nooo noooo

peculiar tones when in distress, but also from the human look of their
nooooooo noooo nooo no nooooooo, noo nooo nooo noo noooo nooo no noooo

round heads and semi-intelligent faces, seen peeringly uprising from
noooo noooo noo nooo-noooooooooo noooo, nooo noooooooo nooooooo nooo

the water alongside. In the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have
noo noooo noooooooo. No noo noo, noooo noooooo noooooooooooo, noooo nooo

more than once been mistaken for men.
nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo noo noo.




But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible
Noo noo noooooo no noo nooo nooo nooooooo no noooooo n nooo noooooooo

confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning. At
nooooooooooo no noo nooo no noo no noooo nooooo nooo noooooo. No

sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore;
noo-nooo nooo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo no noo nooo-nooo no noo nooo;

and whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for
noo noooooo no noo nooo no noo noo noo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo (noo

sailors sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thus
noooooo noooooooo no noooo no n nooooooooo noooo), noooooo no noo nooo

with the man, there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he
nooo noo noo, noooo no noo no noooooo; noo, no nooo no no noo, no

had not been long at his perch, when a cry was heard--a cry and a
noo noo nooo nooo no noo noooo, nooo n noo noo noooo--n noo noo n

rushing--and looking up, they saw a falling phantom in the air; and
noooooo--noo noooooo no, nooo noo n noooooo noooooo no noo noo; noo

looking down, a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the
noooooo nooo, n nooooo nooooo nooo no noooo noooooo no noo nooo no noo

sea.
noo.




The life-buoy--a long slender cask--was dropped from the stern, where it
Noo nooo-nooo--n nooo noooooo nooo--noo noooooo nooo noo noooo, noooo no

always hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to seize it,
nooooo nooo nooooooo no n noooooo nooooo; noo no nooo nooo no noooo no,

and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so that it
noo noo noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo no noo nooooooo, no nooo no

slowly filled, and that parched wood also filled at its every pore; and
nooooo nooooo, noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo nooooo no noo noooo nooo; noo

the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom, as if to
noo noooooo nooo-noooo nooo nooooooo noo nooooo no noo nooooo, no no no

yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.
noooo noo noo nooooo, nooooo no noooo noo n nooo noo.




And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out
Noo nooo noo noooo noo no noo Nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooo no nooo noo

for the White Whale, on the White Whale's own peculiar ground; that man
noo noo Noooo Noooo, no noo Noooo Noooo'n noo nooooooo nooooo; nooo noo

was swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at the
noo noooooooo no no noo nooo. Noo noo, noooooo, noooooo no nooo no noo

time. Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at this event, at
nooo. Nooooo, no nooo nooo, nooo nooo noo noooooo no nooo noooo, no

least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of evil
noooo no n noooooo; noo nooo nooooooo no, noo no n noooooooooooo no nooo

in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged. They
no noo nooooo, noo no noo nooooooooo no no nooo noooooo nooooooo. Nooo

declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they had
nooooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooo no noooo nooo noooooo nooo noo

heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay.
noooo noo noooo nooooo. Noo noooo noo noo Noooooo nooo noo.




The lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see
Noo nooo nooo-nooo noo noo no no nooooooo; Nooooooo noo nooooooo no noo

to it; but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as
no no; noo no no nooo no nooooooooo noooooooo noooo no noooo, noo no

in the feverish eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of
no noo nooooooo noooooooo no nooo nooooo noo noooooooooo nooooo no

the voyage, all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directly
noo nooooo, noo noooo nooo noooooooo no noo nooo noo nooo noo nooooooo

connected with its final end, whatever that might prove to be;
noooooooo nooo noo noooo noo, nooooooo nooo noooo noooo no no;

therefore, they were going to leave the ship's stern unprovided with a
noooooooo, nooo nooo noooo no noooo noo nooo'n noooo nooooooooo nooo n

buoy, when by certain strange signs and inuendoes Queequeg hinted a hint
nooo, nooo no noooooo noooooo noooo noo noooooooo Nooooooo nooooo n nooo

concerning his coffin.
nooooooooo noo nooooo.




"A life-buoy of a coffin!" cried Starbuck, starting.
"N nooo-nooo no n nooooo!" noooo Nooooooo, nooooooo.




"Rather queer, that, I should say," said Stubb.
"Nooooo noooo, nooo, N nooooo noo," nooo Noooo.




"It will make a good enough one," said Flask, "the carpenter here can
"No nooo nooo n nooo nooooo noo," nooo Noooo, "noo noooooooo nooo noo

arrange it easily."
noooooo no nooooo."




"Bring it up; there's nothing else for it," said Starbuck, after a
"Noooo no no; noooo'n noooooo nooo noo no," nooo Nooooooo, noooo n

melancholy pause. "Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so--the coffin,
nooooooooo noooo. "Noo no, noooooooo; no noo nooo no no no--noo nooooo,

I mean. Dost thou hear me? Rig it."
N nooo. Nooo nooo nooo no? Noo no."




"And shall I nail down the lid, sir?" moving his hand as with a hammer.
"Noo noooo N nooo nooo noo noo, noo?" nooooo noo nooo no nooo n nooooo.




"Aye."
"Noo."




"And shall I caulk the seams, sir?" moving his hand as with a
"Noo noooo N noooo noo noooo, noo?" nooooo noo nooo no nooo n

caulking-iron.
nooooooo-nooo.




"Aye."
"Noo."




"And shall I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?" moving his hand as
"Noo noooo N nooo noo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo, noo?" nooooo noo nooo no

with a pitch-pot.
nooo n noooo-noo.




"Away! what possesses thee to this? Make a life-buoy of the coffin, and
"Nooo! nooo noooooooo nooo no nooo? Nooo n nooo-nooo no noo nooooo, noo

no more.--Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me."
no nooo.--No. Noooo, No. Noooo, nooo noooooo nooo no."




"He goes off in a huff. The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks.
"No nooo noo no n nooo. Noo noooo no noo nooooo; no noo noooo no nooooo.

Now I don't like this. I make a leg for Captain Ahab, and he wears it
Noo N noo'n nooo nooo. N nooo n noo noo Noooooo Nooo, noo no noooo no

like a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he won't put
nooo n noooooooo; noo N nooo n noooooo noo Nooooooo, noo no noo'n noo

his head into it. Are all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin?
noo nooo nooo no. Noo noo no noooo no no noo noooooo nooo nooo nooooo?

And now I'm ordered to make a life-buoy of it. It's like turning an old
Noo noo N'n noooooo no nooo n nooo-nooo no no. No'n nooo noooooo no noo

coat; going to bring the flesh on the other side now. I don't like this
nooo; noooo no noooo noo noooo no noo noooo nooo noo. N noo'n nooo nooo

cobbling sort of business--I don't like it at all; it's undignified;
nooooooo nooo no nooooooo--N noo'n nooo no no noo; no'n noooooooooo;

it's not my place. Let tinkers' brats do tinkerings; we are their
no'n noo no noooo. Noo noooooo' noooo no nooooooooo; no noo noooo

betters. I like to take in hand none but clean, virgin, fair-and-square
noooooo. N nooo no nooo no nooo nooo noo noooo, nooooo, nooo-noo-nooooo

mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins at the beginning, and
nooooooooooo nooo, noooooooo nooo noooooooo nooooo no noo noooooooo, noo

is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end at the conclusion; not
no no noo nooooo nooo nooooo, noo noooo no no noo no noo nooooooooo; noo

a cobbler's job, that's at an end in the middle, and at the beginning at
n noooooo'n noo, nooo'n no no noo no noo nooooo, noo no noo noooooooo no

the end. It's the old woman's tricks to be giving cobbling jobs. Lord!
noo noo. No'n noo noo noooo'n nooooo no no nooooo nooooooo nooo. Nooo!

what an affection all old women have for tinkers. I know an old woman of
nooo no noooooooo noo noo noooo nooo noo noooooo. N nooo no noo noooo no

sixty-five who ran away with a bald-headed young tinker once. And that's
noooo-nooo noo noo nooo nooo n nooo-nooooo noooo nooooo nooo. Noo nooo'n

the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when
noo nooooo N noooo noooo nooo noo nooooo noooo noo noooo nooooo, nooo

I kept my job-shop in the Vineyard; they might have taken it into their
N nooo no noo-nooo no noo Nooooooo; nooo noooo nooo noooo no nooo noooo

lonely old heads to run off with me. But heigh-ho! there are no caps at
nooooo noo noooo no noo noo nooo no. Noo noooo-no! noooo noo no nooo no

sea but snow-caps. Let me see. Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay
noo noo nooo-nooo. Noo no noo. Nooo nooo noo noo; noooo noo noooo; noo

over the same with pitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the
nooo noo nooo nooo noooo; nooooo nooo nooo noooo, noo nooo no nooo noo

snap-spring over the ship's stern. Were ever such things done before
nooo-nooooo nooo noo nooo'n noooo. Nooo nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo

with a coffin? Some superstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied
nooo n nooooo? Nooo noooooooooooo noo nooooooooo, noo, noooo no nooo

up in the rigging, ere they would do the job. But I'm made of knotty
no no noo noooooo, noo nooo noooo no noo noo. Noo N'n nooo no nooooo

Aroostook hemlock; I don't budge. Cruppered with a coffin! Sailing
Noooooooo noooooo; N noo'n noooo. Noooooooo nooo n nooooo! Noooooo

about with a grave-yard tray! But never mind. We workers in woods make
noooo nooo n noooo-nooo nooo! Noo noooo nooo. No noooooo no noooo nooo

bridal-bedsteads and card-tables, as well as coffins and hearses. We
nooooo-noooooooo noo nooo-nooooo, no nooo no noooooo noo noooooo. No

work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask
nooo no noo noooo, no no noo noo, no no noo nooooo; noo noo no no noo

the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling,
noo noo noo noooooooo no noo nooo, nooooo no no noo nooooooooo nooooooo,

and then we stash it if we can. Hem! I'll do the job, now, tenderly.
noo nooo no noooo no no no noo. Noo! N'no no noo noo, noo, nooooooo.

I'll have me--let's see--how many in the ship's company, all told? But
N'no nooo no--noo'n noo--noo nooo no noo nooo'n noooooo, noo nooo? Noo

I've forgotten. Any way, I'll have me thirty separate, Turk's-headed
N'no noooooooo. Noo noo, N'no nooo no nooooo nooooooo, Nooo'n-nooooo

life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round to the coffin. Then,
nooo-noooo, nooo noooo nooo nooo noooooo noo noooo no noo nooooo. Nooo,

if the hull go down, there'll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for
no noo nooo no nooo, noooo'no no nooooo nooooo noooooo noo nooooooo noo

one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath the sun! Come hammer,
noo nooooo, n noooo noo nooo nooo noooo noooooo noo noo! Nooo nooooo,

caulking-iron, pitch-pot, and marling-spike! Let's to it."
nooooooo-nooo, noooo-noo, noo noooooo-noooo! Noo'n no no."










CHAPTER 127. The Deck.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooo.







THE COFFIN LAID UPON TWO LINE-TUBS, BETWEEN THE VICE-BENCH AND THE OPEN
NOO NOOOOO NOOO NOOO NOO NOOO-NOOO, NOOOOOO NOO NOOO-NOOOO NOO NOO NOOO

HATCHWAY; THE CARPENTER CAULKING ITS SEAMS; THE STRING OF TWISTED OAKUM
NOOOOOOO; NOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOOOOO NOO NOOOO; NOO NOOOOO NO NOOOOOO NOOOO

SLOWLY UNWINDING FROM A LARGE ROLL OF IT PLACED IN THE BOSOM OF
NOOOOO NOOOOOOOO NOOO N NOOOO NOOO NO NO NOOOOO NO NOO NOOOO NO

HIS FROCK.--AHAB COMES SLOWLY FROM THE CABIN-GANGWAY, AND HEARS PIP
NOO NOOOO.--NOOO NOOOO NOOOOO NOOO NOO NOOOO-NOOOOOO, NOO NOOOO NOO

FOLLOWING HIM.
NOOOOOOOO NOO.







"Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently. He goes! Not this hand
"Nooo, noo; N nooo no nooo no noooo noooooooo. No nooo! Noo nooo nooo

complies with my humor more genially than that boy.--Middle aisle of a
nooooooo nooo no noooo nooo nooooooo nooo nooo noo.--Nooooo noooo no n

church! What's here?"
nooooo! Nooo'n nooo?"




"Life-buoy, sir. Mr. Starbuck's orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware the
"Nooo-nooo, noo. No. Nooooooo'n nooooo. No, nooo, noo! Nooooo noo

hatchway!"
nooooooo!"




"Thank ye, man. Thy coffin lies handy to the vault."
"Noooo no, noo. Noo nooooo nooo noooo no noo noooo."




"Sir? The hatchway? oh! So it does, sir, so it does."
"Noo? Noo nooooooo? no! No no nooo, noo, no no nooo."




"Art not thou the leg-maker? Look, did not this stump come from thy
"Noo noo nooo noo noo-noooo? Nooo, noo noo nooo noooo nooo nooo noo

shop?"
nooo?"




"I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?"
"N noooooo no noo, noo; nooo noo noooooo noooo, noo?"




"Well enough. But art thou not also the undertaker?"
"Nooo nooooo. Noo noo nooo noo nooo noo nooooooooo?"




"Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg; but
"Noo, noo; N noooooo no nooo noooo nooo no n nooooo noo Nooooooo; noo

they've set me now to turning it into something else."
nooo'no noo no noo no noooooo no nooo noooooooo nooo."




"Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling,
"Nooo nooo no; noo nooo noo no nooooo, noo-nooooooo, noooooooooooo,

monopolising, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the
nooooooooooo, nooooooooo noo noooo, no no noo noo nooooo nooo, noo noo

next day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those
nooo noo noooooo no nooo nooo no, noo noo noooo nooo-noooo noo no noooo

same coffins? Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a
nooo noooooo? Nooo noo no nooooooooooo no noo nooo, noo no nooo no n

jack-of-all-trades."
nooo-no-noo-nooooo."




"But I do not mean anything, sir. I do as I do."
"Noo N no noo nooo nooooooo, noo. N no no N no."




"The gods again. Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a
"Noo nooo noooo. Nooo no, nooo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooo noooo n

coffin? The Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the
nooooo? Noo Nooooo, nooo noo, nooooo nooooooo nooo nooooooo noo noo

craters for volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in
noooooo noo noooooooo; noo noo noooo-nooooo no noo nooo noooo, noooo no

hand. Dost thou never?"
nooo. Nooo nooo noooo?"




"Sing, sir? Do I sing? Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but
"Nooo, noo? No N nooo? No, N'n noooooooooo nooooo, noo, noo nooo; noo

the reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because there
noo nooooo noo noo noooo-nooooo nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo noooooo noooo

was none in his spade, sir. But the caulking mallet is full of it. Hark
noo nooo no noo noooo, noo. Noo noo nooooooo nooooo no nooo no no. Nooo

to it."
no no."




"Aye, and that's because the lid there's a sounding-board; and what in
"Noo, noo nooo'n noooooo noo noo noooo'n n nooooooo-noooo; noo nooo no

all things makes the sounding-board is this--there's naught beneath. And
noo nooooo noooo noo nooooooo-noooo no nooo--noooo'n nooooo noooooo. Noo

yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter.
noo, n nooooo nooo n nooo no no noooo nooooo nooo noo nooo, Noooooooo.

Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock against
Nooo nooo nooo nooooo noooo n nooo, noo noooo noo nooooo noooo noooooo

the churchyard gate, going in?
noo nooooooooo nooo, noooo no?




"Faith, sir, I've--"
"Noooo, noo, N'no--"




"Faith? What's that?"
"Noooo? Nooo'n nooo?"




"Why, faith, sir, it's only a sort of exclamation-like--that's all,
"Noo, noooo, noo, no'n nooo n nooo no noooooooooo-nooo--nooo'n noo,

sir."
noo."




"Um, um; go on."
"No, no; no no."




"I was about to say, sir, that--"
"N noo noooo no noo, noo, nooo--"




"Art thou a silk-worm? Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?
"Noo nooo n nooo-nooo? Nooo nooo nooo noo noo nooooo noo no noooooo?

Look at thy bosom! Despatch! and get these traps out of sight."
Nooo no noo noooo! Nooooooo! noo noo noooo noooo noo no noooo."




"He goes aft. That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot
"No nooo noo. Nooo noo nooooo, noo; noo noooooo nooo nooooo no noo

latitudes. I've heard that the Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos,
noooooooo. N'no noooo nooo noo Nooo no Noooooooo, noo no noo Nooooooooo,

is cut by the Equator right in the middle. Seems to me some sort of
no noo no noo Noooooo noooo no noo nooooo. Noooo no no nooo nooo no

Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle. He's always under
Noooooo nooo noo noo noo, noo, noooo no noo nooooo. No'n nooooo noooo

the Line--fiery hot, I tell ye! He's looking this way--come, oakum;
noo Nooo--noooo noo, N nooo no! No'n noooooo nooo noo--nooo, noooo;

quick. Here we go again. This wooden mallet is the cork, and I'm the
noooo. Nooo no no noooo. Nooo nooooo nooooo no noo nooo, noo N'n noo

professor of musical glasses--tap, tap!"
noooooooo no noooooo noooooo--noo, noo!"




(AHAB TO HIMSELF.)
(NOOO NO NOOOOOO.)




"There's a sight! There's a sound! The grey-headed woodpecker tapping
"Noooo'n n noooo! Noooo'n n noooo! Noo nooo-nooooo nooooooooo noooooo

the hollow tree! Blind and dumb might well be envied now. See! that
noo nooooo nooo! Noooo noo nooo noooo nooo no nooooo noo. Noo! nooo

thing rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines. A most malicious wag,
noooo noooo no noo nooo-nooo, nooo no noo-noooo. N nooo noooooooo noo,

that fellow. Rat-tat! So man's seconds tick! Oh! how immaterial are all
nooo nooooo. Noo-noo! No noo'n noooooo nooo! No! noo nooooooooo noo noo

materials! What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts? Here
noooooooo! Nooo nooooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooooooooooo nooooooo? Nooo

now's the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made
noo'n noo nooo noooooo nooooo no nooo noooo, no n nooo noo, nooo

the expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life.
noo nooooooooo nooo no noo nooo noo nooo no nooo nooooooooo nooo.

A life-buoy of a coffin! Does it go further? Can it be that in some
N nooo-nooo no n nooooo! Nooo no no noooooo? Noo no no nooo no nooo

spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver!
noooooooo noooo noo nooooo no, noooo noo, noo no noooooooooo-noooooooo!

I'll think of that. But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth,
N'no noooo no nooo. Noo no. No noo nooo no N no noo nooo nooo no noooo,

that its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain
nooo noo noooo nooo, noo noooooooo nooooo noo, noooo noo noooooooo

twilight to me. Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed
nooooooo no no. Nooo no noooo nooo nooo, Noooooooo, nooo nooo nooooooo

sound? I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return
noooo? N no noooo; noo no noo noo nooo noooo nooo nooo N nooooo

again. Now, then, Pip, we'll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous
noooo. Noo, nooo, Noo, no'no nooo nooo nooo; N no nooo nooo nooooooo

philosophies from thee! Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds
nooooooooooo nooo nooo! Nooo noooooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo nooooo

must empty into thee!"
nooo noooo nooo nooo!"










CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooo Noooo Noo Nooooo.







Next day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down
Nooo noo, n noooo nooo, noo Nooooo, noo nooooooo, noooooo nooooooo nooo

upon the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At the
nooo noo Nooooo, noo noo noooo noooooo nooooooooo nooo noo. No noo

time the Pequod was making good speed through the water; but as the
nooo noo Nooooo noo nooooo nooo noooo noooooo noo noooo; noo no noo

broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh to her, the boastful sails all
noooo-nooooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo no noo, noo nooooooo noooo noo

fell together as blank bladders that are burst, and all life fled from
nooo nooooooo no noooo nooooooo nooo noo noooo, noo noo nooo nooo nooo

the smitten hull.
noo noooooo nooo.




"Bad news; she brings bad news," muttered the old Manxman. But ere her
"Noo nooo; noo nooooo noo nooo," nooooooo noo noo Noooooo. Noo noo noo

commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he
noooooooo, noo, nooo noooooo no noooo, noooo no no noo nooo; noo no

could hopefully hail, Ahab's voice was heard.
noooo noooooooo nooo, Nooo'n noooo noo noooo.




"Hast seen the White Whale?"
"Nooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo?"




"Aye, yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?"
"Noo, noooooooo. Nooo no nooo n noooo-nooo nooooo?"




Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question;
Nooooooooo noo noo, Nooo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooo;

and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the stranger captain
noo noooo nooo nooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo, nooo noo nooooooo noooooo

himself, having stopped his vessel's way, was seen descending her
noooooo, nooooo noooooo noo nooooo'n noo, noo nooo nooooooooo noo

side. A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the Pequod's
nooo. N noo nooo noooo, noo noo nooo-nooo nooo nooooooo noo Nooooo'n

main-chains, and he sprang to the deck. Immediately he was recognised by
nooo-nooooo, noo no nooooo no noo nooo. Noooooooooo no noo nooooooooo no

Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew. But no formal salutation was exchanged.
Nooo noo n Noooooooooo no nooo. Noo no nooooo nooooooooo noo noooooooo.




"Where was he?--not killed!--not killed!" cried Ahab, closely advancing.
"Noooo noo no?--noo nooooo!--noo nooooo!" noooo Nooo, noooooo noooooooo.

"How was it?"
"Noo noo no?"




It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous, while
No nooooo nooo nooooooo nooo no noo noooooooo no noo noo nooooooo, noooo

three of the stranger's boats were engaged with a shoal of whales, which
noooo no noo nooooooo'n noooo nooo noooooo nooo n noooo no nooooo, noooo

had led them some four or five miles from the ship; and while they were
noo noo nooo nooo nooo no nooo noooo nooo noo nooo; noo noooo nooo nooo

yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of Moby Dick had
noo no noooo noooo no nooooooo, noo noooo nooo noo nooo no Nooo Nooo noo

suddenly loomed up out of the water, not very far to leeward; whereupon,
nooooooo nooooo no noo no noo noooo, noo nooo noo no noooooo; noooooooo,

the fourth rigged boat--a reserved one--had been instantly lowered in
noo nooooo nooooo nooo--n nooooooo noo--noo nooo noooooooo noooooo no

chase. After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth boat--the swiftest
noooo. Noooo n nooo nooo nooooo noo nooo, nooo nooooo nooo--noo nooooooo

keeled of all--seemed to have succeeded in fastening--at least, as
nooooo no noo--nooooo no nooo noooooooo no noooooooo--no noooo, no

well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it. In the
nooo no noo noo no noo nooo-nooo noooo nooo nooooooo noooo no. No noo

distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam
nooooooo no noo noo nooooooooo nooooo nooo; noo nooo n noooo noooo

of bubbling white water; and after that nothing more; whence it was
no nooooooo noooo noooo; noo noooo nooo noooooo nooo; nooooo no noo

concluded that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with
noooooooo nooo noo nooooooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooooooo noo nooo nooo

his pursuers, as often happens. There was some apprehension, but no
noo nooooooo, no noooo noooooo. Noooo noo nooo nooooooooooo, noo no

positive alarm, as yet. The recall signals were placed in the rigging;
nooooooo noooo, no noo. Noo nooooo noooooo nooo nooooo no noo noooooo;

darkness came on; and forced to pick up her three far to windward
nooooooo nooo no; noo nooooo no nooo no noo noooo noo no nooooooo

boats--ere going in quest of the fourth one in the precisely opposite
noooo--noo noooo no noooo no noo nooooo noo no noo noooooooo nooooooo

direction--the ship had not only been necessitated to leave that boat to
noooooooo--noo nooo noo noo nooo nooo nooooooooooo no noooo nooo nooo no

its fate till near midnight, but, for the time, to increase her distance
noo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo, noo, noo noo nooo, no nooooooo noo nooooooo

from it. But the rest of her crew being at last safe aboard, she crowded
nooo no. Noo noo nooo no noo nooo noooo no nooo nooo nooooo, noo noooooo

all sail--stunsail on stunsail--after the missing boat; kindling a fire
noo nooo--nooooooo no nooooooo--noooo noo noooooo nooo; nooooooo n nooo

in her try-pots for a beacon; and every other man aloft on the look-out.
no noo noo-nooo noo n nooooo; noo noooo noooo noo noooo no noo nooo-noo.

But though when she had thus sailed a sufficient distance to gain the
Noo nooooo nooo noo noo nooo nooooo n nooooooooo nooooooo no nooo noo

presumed place of the absent ones when last seen; though she then
nooooooo noooo no noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo nooo; nooooo noo nooo

paused to lower her spare boats to pull all around her; and not finding
nooooo no noooo noo noooo noooo no nooo noo nooooo noo; noo noo noooooo

anything, had again dashed on; again paused, and lowered her boats; and
nooooooo, noo noooo nooooo no; noooo nooooo, noo noooooo noo noooo; noo

though she had thus continued doing till daylight; yet not the least
nooooo noo noo nooo noooooooo noooo nooo nooooooo; noo noo noo noooo

glimpse of the missing keel had been seen.
noooooo no noo noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo.




The story told, the stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his
Noo noooo nooo, noo nooooooo Noooooo noooooooooo nooo no no nooooo noo

object in boarding the Pequod. He desired that ship to unite with his
nooooo no nooooooo noo Nooooo. No noooooo nooo nooo no noooo nooo noo

own in the search; by sailing over the sea some four or five miles
noo no noo nooooo; no noooooo nooo noo noo nooo nooo no nooo noooo

apart, on parallel lines, and so sweeping a double horizon, as it were.
noooo, no nooooooo noooo, noo no nooooooo n nooooo noooooo, no no nooo.




"I will wager something now," whispered Stubb to Flask, "that some one
"N nooo noooo noooooooo noo," noooooooo Noooo no Noooo, "nooo nooo noo

in that missing boat wore off that Captain's best coat; mayhap, his
no nooo noooooo nooo nooo noo nooo Noooooo'n nooo nooo; nooooo, noo

watch--he's so cursed anxious to get it back. Who ever heard of two
noooo--no'n no nooooo noooooo no noo no nooo. Noo nooo noooo no noo

pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height of
noooo noooo-noooo nooooooo noooo noo noooooo noooo-nooo no noo nooooo no

the whaling season? See, Flask, only see how pale he looks--pale in the
noo noooooo nooooo? Noo, Noooo, nooo noo noo nooo no noooo--nooo no noo

very buttons of his eyes--look--it wasn't the coat--it must have been
nooo noooooo no noo nooo--nooo--no nooo'n noo nooo--no nooo nooo nooo

the--"
noo--"




"My boy, my own boy is among them. For God's sake--I beg, I
"No noo, no noo noo no noooo nooo. Noo Noo'n nooo--N noo, N

conjure"--here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far
noooooo"--nooo noooooooo noo nooooooo Noooooo no Nooo, noo nooo noo

had but icily received his petition. "For eight-and-forty hours let me
noo noo noooo nooooooo noo nooooooo. "Noo noooo-noo-noooo noooo noo no

charter your ship--I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it--if
noooooo nooo nooo--N nooo nooooo noo noo no, noo noooooo noo noo no--no

there be no other way--for eight-and-forty hours only--only that--you
noooo no no noooo noo--noo noooo-noo-noooo noooo nooo--nooo nooo--noo

must, oh, you must, and you SHALL do this thing."
nooo, no, noo nooo, noo noo NOOOO no nooo noooo."




"His son!" cried Stubb, "oh, it's his son he's lost! I take back the
"Noo noo!" noooo Noooo, "no, no'n noo noo no'n nooo! N nooo nooo noo

coat and watch--what says Ahab? We must save that boy."
nooo noo noooo--nooo nooo Nooo? No nooo nooo nooo noo."




"He's drowned with the rest on 'em, last night," said the old Manx
"No'n noooooo nooo noo nooo no 'no, nooo noooo," nooo noo noo Nooo

sailor standing behind them; "I heard; all of ye heard their spirits."
nooooo nooooooo nooooo nooo; "N noooo; noo no no noooo noooo noooooo."




Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the Rachel's
Noo, no no noooooo nooooo noo, nooo nooo nooo nooooooo no noo Nooooo'n

the more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of the
noo nooo nooooooooo, noo noo nooooooooooo, nooo noo nooo noo noo no noo

Captain's sons among the number of the missing boat's crew; but among
Noooooo'n nooo noooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo nooo'n nooo; noo noooo

the number of the other boat's crews, at the same time, but on the other
noo nooooo no noo noooo nooo'n noooo, no noo nooo nooo, noo no noo noooo

hand, separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the chase,
nooo, noooooooo nooo noo nooo nooooo noo nooo nooooooooooo no noo noooo,

there had been still another son; as that for a time, the wretched
noooo noo nooo noooo noooooo noo; no nooo noo n nooo, noo nooooooo

father was plunged to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity; which
nooooo noo noooooo no noo nooooo no noo noooooooo nooooooooo; noooo

was only solved for him by his chief mate's instinctively adopting the
noo nooo nooooo noo noo no noo noooo nooo'n noooooooooooo nooooooo noo

ordinary procedure of a whale-ship in such emergencies, that is, when
nooooooo noooooooo no n noooo-nooo no nooo noooooooooo, nooo no, nooo

placed between jeopardized but divided boats, always to pick up the
nooooo noooooo noooooooooo noo noooooo noooo, nooooo no nooo no noo

majority first. But the captain, for some unknown constitutional reason,
nooooooo noooo. Noo noo noooooo, noo nooo noooooo nooooooooooooo nooooo,

had refrained from mentioning all this, and not till forced to it by
noo noooooooo nooo nooooooooo noo nooo, noo noo nooo nooooo no no no

Ahab's iciness did he allude to his one yet missing boy; a little lad,
Nooo'n noooooo noo no nooooo no noo noo noo noooooo noo; n nooooo noo,

but twelve years old, whose father with the earnest but unmisgiving
noo nooooo noooo noo, noooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo noo noooooooooo

hardihood of a Nantucketer's paternal love, had thus early sought to
noooooooo no n Noooooooooo'n nooooooo nooo, noo nooo noooo nooooo no

initiate him in the perils and wonders of a vocation almost immemorially
nooooooo noo no noo nooooo noo noooooo no n nooooooo nooooo nooooooooooo

the destiny of all his race. Nor does it unfrequently occur, that
noo noooooo no noo noo nooo. Noo nooo no nooooooooooo noooo, nooo

Nantucket captains will send a son of such tender age away from them,
Noooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo n noo no nooo nooooo noo nooo nooo nooo,

for a protracted three or four years' voyage in some other ship than
noo n nooooooooo noooo no nooo noooo' nooooo no nooo noooo nooo nooo

their own; so that their first knowledge of a whaleman's career shall
noooo noo; no nooo noooo noooo noooooooo no n nooooooo'n nooooo noooo

be unenervated by any chance display of a father's natural but untimely
no noooooooooo no noo nooooo noooooo no n nooooo'n noooooo noo nooooooo

partiality, or undue apprehensiveness and concern.
nooooooooo, no noooo nooooooooooooooo noo noooooo.




Meantime, now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab;
Nooooooo, noo noo nooooooo noo noooo nooooooooo noo nooo nooo no Nooo;

and Ahab still stood like an anvil, receiving every shock, but without
noo Nooo noooo noooo nooo no noooo, noooooooo noooo noooo, noo noooooo

the least quivering of his own.
noo noooo noooooooo no noo noo.




"I will not go," said the stranger, "till you say aye to me. Do to me
"N nooo noo no," nooo noo nooooooo, "nooo noo noo noo no no. No no no

as you would have me do to you in the like case. For YOU too have a boy,
no noo noooo nooo no no no noo no noo nooo nooo. Noo NOO noo nooo n noo,

Captain Ahab--though but a child, and nestling safely at home now--a
Noooooo Nooo--nooooo noo n noooo, noo nooooooo nooooo no nooo noo--n

child of your old age too--Yes, yes, you relent; I see it--run, run,
noooo no nooo noo noo noo--Noo, noo, noo nooooo; N noo no--noo, noo,

men, now, and stand by to square in the yards."
noo, noo, noo noooo no no nooooo no noo noooo."




"Avast," cried Ahab--"touch not a rope-yarn"; then in a voice that
"Noooo," noooo Nooo--"noooo noo n nooo-nooo"; nooo no n noooo nooo

prolongingly moulded every word--"Captain Gardiner, I will not do it.
nooooooooooo noooooo noooo nooo--"Noooooo Nooooooo, N nooo noo no no.

Even now I lose time. Good-bye, good-bye. God bless ye, man, and may I
Nooo noo N nooo nooo. Nooo-noo, nooo-noo. Noo noooo no, noo, noo noo N

forgive myself, but I must go. Mr. Starbuck, look at the binnacle watch,
noooooo nooooo, noo N nooo no. No. Nooooooo, nooo no noo nooooooo noooo,

and in three minutes from this present instant warn off all strangers:
noo no noooo noooooo nooo nooo noooooo noooooo nooo noo noo noooooooo:

then brace forward again, and let the ship sail as before."
nooo noooo noooooo noooo, noo noo noo nooo nooo no nooooo."




Hurriedly turning, with averted face, he descended into his cabin,
Noooooooo noooooo, nooo noooooo nooo, no noooooooo nooo noo noooo,

leaving the strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utter
noooooo noo noooooo noooooo nooooooooo no nooo noooooooooooo noo noooo

rejection of his so earnest suit. But starting from his enchantment,
noooooooo no noo no noooooo nooo. Noo nooooooo nooo noo noooooooooo,

Gardiner silently hurried to the side; more fell than stepped into his
Nooooooo nooooooo noooooo no noo nooo; nooo nooo nooo noooooo nooo noo

boat, and returned to his ship.
nooo, noo nooooooo no noo nooo.




Soon the two ships diverged their wakes; and long as the strange vessel
Nooo noo noo noooo nooooooo noooo noooo; noo nooo no noo noooooo nooooo

was in view, she was seen to yaw hither and thither at every dark spot,
noo no nooo, noo noo nooo no noo nooooo noo noooooo no noooo nooo nooo,

however small, on the sea. This way and that her yards were swung round;
noooooo noooo, no noo noo. Nooo noo noo nooo noo noooo nooo noooo noooo;

starboard and larboard, she continued to tack; now she beat against a
noooooooo noo nooooooo, noo noooooooo no nooo; noo noo nooo noooooo n

head sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all the while, her
nooo noo; noo noooo no nooooo noo nooooo no; noooo noo noo noooo, noo

masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as three tall cherry
noooo noo noooo nooo noooooo noooooooo nooo noo, no noooo nooo nooooo

trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs.
noooo, nooo noo nooo noo noooooooo noooo noo nooooo.




But by her still halting course and winding, woeful way, you plainly saw
Noo no noo noooo noooooo nooooo noo noooooo, nooooo noo, noo noooooo noo

that this ship that so wept with spray, still remained without comfort.
nooo nooo nooo nooo no nooo nooo noooo, noooo nooooooo noooooo noooooo.

She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were not.
Noo noo Nooooo, noooooo noo noo nooooooo, noooooo nooo nooo noo.










CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noooo.







(AHAB MOVING TO GO ON DECK; PIP CATCHES HIM BY THE HAND TO FOLLOW.)
(NOOO NOOOOO NO NO NO NOOO; NOO NOOOOOO NOO NO NOO NOOO NO NOOOOO.)




"Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour is coming
"Noo, noo, N nooo nooo nooo nooo noo nooooo Nooo noo. Noo nooo no nooooo

when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would not have thee by him.
nooo Nooo noooo noo noooo nooo nooo noo, noo noooo noo nooo nooo no noo.

There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my malady.
Noooo no nooo no nooo, nooo noo, noooo N nooo noo nooooo no no nooooo.

Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most desired
Nooo noooo nooo; noo noo nooo nooo, no nooooo noooooo no nooo noooooo

health. Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve thee, as if
nooooo. No nooo noooo noooo nooo, noooo nooo noooo noooo nooo, no no

thou wert the captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own screwed
nooo nooo noo noooooo. Noo, noo, nooo noooo noo nooo no no noo noooooo

chair; another screw to it, thou must be."
noooo; noooooo noooo no no, nooo nooo no."




"No, no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for
"No, no, no! no nooo noo n noooo nooo, noo; no no noo noo nooo no noo

your one lost leg; only tread upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain a
nooo noo nooo noo; nooo noooo nooo no, noo; N noo no nooo, no N nooooo n

part of ye."
nooo no no."




"Oh! spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless
"No! noooo no noooooo nooooooo, nooo noooo no n noooo no noo nooooooo

fidelity of man!--and a black! and crazy!--but methinks like-cures-like
nooooooo no noo!--noo n noooo! noo noooo!--noo nooooooo nooo-noooo-nooo

applies to him too; he grows so sane again."
noooooo no noo noo; no noooo no nooo noooo."




"They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip, whose
"Nooo nooo no, noo, nooo Noooo noo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo Noo, noooo

drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin.
noooooo noooo noo nooo noooo, noo noo noo noooooooo no noo nooooo nooo.

But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him. Sir, I must go with
Noo N nooo noooo nooooo no, noo, no Noooo noo noo. Noo, N nooo no nooo

ye."
no."




"If thou speakest thus to me much more, Ahab's purpose keels up in him.
"No nooo nooooooo nooo no no nooo nooo, Nooo'n noooooo noooo no no noo.

I tell thee no; it cannot be."
N nooo nooo no; no nooooo no."




"Oh good master, master, master!
"No nooo nooooo, nooooo, nooooo!




"Weep so, and I will murder thee! have a care, for Ahab too is mad.
"Nooo no, noo N nooo nooooo nooo! nooo n nooo, noo Nooo noo no noo.

Listen, and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck, and still
Nooooo, noo nooo nooo noooo nooo no noooo nooo nooo noo nooo, noo noooo

know that I am there. And now I quit thee. Thy hand!--Met! True art
nooo nooo N no noooo. Noo noo N nooo nooo. Noo nooo!--Noo! Nooo noo

thou, lad, as the circumference to its centre. So: God for ever bless
nooo, noo, no noo noooooooooooo no noo nooooo. No: Noo noo nooo noooo

thee; and if it come to that,--God for ever save thee, let what will
nooo; noo no no nooo no nooo,--Noo noo nooo nooo nooo, noo nooo nooo

befall."
nooooo."




(AHAB GOES; PIP STEPS ONE STEP FORWARD.)
(NOOO NOOO; NOO NOOOO NOO NOOO NOOOOOO.)







"Here he this instant stood; I stand in his air,--but I'm alone. Now
"Nooo no nooo noooooo noooo; N noooo no noo noo,--noo N'n noooo. Noo

were even poor Pip here I could endure it, but he's missing. Pip! Pip!
nooo nooo nooo Noo nooo N noooo nooooo no, noo no'n noooooo. Noo! Noo!

Ding, dong, ding! Who's seen Pip? He must be up here; let's try the
Nooo, nooo, nooo! Noo'n nooo Noo? No nooo no no nooo; noo'n noo noo

door. What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there's no opening
nooo. Nooo? noooooo nooo, noo nooo, noo noo; noo noo noooo'n no noooooo

it. It must be the spell; he told me to stay here: Aye, and told me this
no. No nooo no noo noooo; no nooo no no nooo nooo: Noo, noo nooo no nooo

screwed chair was mine. Here, then, I'll seat me, against the transom,
noooooo noooo noo nooo. Nooo, nooo, N'no nooo no, noooooo noo noooooo,

in the ship's full middle, all her keel and her three masts before me.
no noo nooo'n nooo nooooo, noo noo nooo noo noo noooo noooo nooooo no.

Here, our old sailors say, in their black seventy-fours great
Nooo, noo noo noooooo noo, no noooo noooo noooooo-noooo noooo

admirals sometimes sit at table, and lord it over rows of captains and
nooooooo noooooooo noo no noooo, noo nooo no nooo nooo no nooooooo noo

lieutenants. Ha! what's this? epaulets! epaulets! the epaulets all come
noooooooooo. No! nooo'n nooo? nooooooo! nooooooo! noo nooooooo noo nooo

crowding! Pass round the decanters; glad to see ye; fill up, monsieurs!
nooooooo! Nooo noooo noo noooooooo; nooo no noo no; nooo no, noooooooo!

What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy's host to white men with gold
Nooo no noo noooooo, noo, nooo n noooo noo'n nooo no noooo noo nooo nooo

lace upon their coats!--Monsieurs, have ye seen one Pip?--a little
nooo nooo noooo noooo!--Noooooooo, nooo no nooo noo Noo?--n nooooo

negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog look, and cowardly! Jumped from a
noooo noo, nooo nooo nooo, nooo-noo nooo, noo nooooooo! Nooooo nooo n

whale-boat once;--seen him? No! Well then, fill up again, captains, and
noooo-nooo nooo;--nooo noo? No! Nooo nooo, nooo no noooo, nooooooo, noo

let's drink shame upon all cowards! I name no names. Shame upon them!
noo'n noooo noooo nooo noo noooooo! N nooo no noooo. Noooo nooo nooo!

Put one foot upon the table. Shame upon all cowards.--Hist! above there,
Noo noo nooo nooo noo noooo. Noooo nooo noo noooooo.--Nooo! noooo noooo,

I hear ivory--Oh, master! master! I am indeed down-hearted when you walk
N nooo noooo--No, nooooo! nooooo! N no nooooo nooo-noooooo nooo noo nooo

over me. But here I'll stay, though this stern strikes rocks; and they
nooo no. Noo nooo N'no nooo, nooooo nooo noooo noooooo noooo; noo nooo

bulge through; and oysters come to join me."
noooo noooooo; noo noooooo nooo no nooo no."










CHAPTER 130. The Hat.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noo.







And now that at the proper time and place, after so long and wide a
Noo noo nooo no noo nooooo nooo noo noooo, noooo no nooo noo nooo n

preliminary cruise, Ahab,--all other whaling waters swept--seemed to
noooooooooo nooooo, Nooo,--noo noooo noooooo nooooo noooo--nooooo no

have chased his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him the more securely
nooo nooooo noo noo nooo no noooo-nooo, no nooo noo noo nooo nooooooo

there; now, that he found himself hard by the very latitude and
noooo; noo, nooo no noooo noooooo nooo no noo nooo nooooooo noo

longitude where his tormenting wound had been inflicted; now that a
noooooooo noooo noo nooooooooo noooo noo nooo noooooooo; noo nooo n

vessel had been spoken which on the very day preceding had actually
nooooo noo nooo nooooo noooo no noo nooo noo noooooooo noo nooooooo

encountered Moby Dick;--and now that all his successive meetings with
noooooooooo Nooo Nooo;--noo noo nooo noo noo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo

various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference
noooooo noooo noooooooooooo noooooooo no nooo noo nooooooo nooooooooooo

with which the white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned
nooo noooo noo noooo noooo nooo noo noooooo, noooooo noooooo no nooooo

against; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man's eyes,
noooooo; noo no noo nooo noooo nooooo n noooooooo no noo noo noo'n nooo,

which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting
noooo no noo nooooo nooooooooo noo nooooo noooo no noo. No noo noooooooo

polar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months' night
noooo nooo, noooo noooooo noo nooooooo, nooooo, noo nooooo' noooo

sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab's purpose now
nooooooo noo nooooooo, nooooo, noooooo nooo; no Nooo'n noooooo noo

fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew. It
noooooo noooooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooooo no noo nooooo nooo. No

domineered above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings,
nooooooooo noooo nooo no, nooo noo noooo noooooo, nooooo, nooooooooo,

fears, were fain to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth a
noooo, nooo nooo no nooo noooooo noooo noooo, noo noo nooooo noooo n

single spear or leaf.
nooooo noooo no nooo.




In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural,
No nooo noooooooooooo nooooooo noo, noo noooo, nooooo no noooooo,

vanished. Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more strove
nooooooo. Noooo no nooo nooooo no noooo n noooo; Nooooooo no nooo nooooo

to check one. Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed ground to
no noooo noo. Noooo, noo noo nooooo, nooo noo nooo, nooooo nooooo no

finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped mortar of
nooooo nooo, noo nooooooo, noo noo nooo, no noo noooooo nooooo no

Ahab's iron soul. Like machines, they dumbly moved about the deck, ever
Nooo'n nooo nooo. Nooo nooooooo, nooo nooooo noooo noooo noo nooo, nooo

conscious that the old man's despot eye was on them.
noooooooo nooo noo noo noo'n nooooo noo noo no nooo.




But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; when
Noo noo noo nooooo nooo noo no noo nooo nooooo nooooooooooo noooo; nooo

he thought no glance but one was on him; then you would have seen that
no noooooo no nooooo noo noo noo no noo; nooo noo noooo nooo nooo nooo

even as Ahab's eyes so awed the crew's, the inscrutable Parsee's glance
nooo no Nooo'n nooo no nooo noo nooo'n, noo noooooooooo Nooooo'n nooooo

awed his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times affected it.
nooo noo; no noooooo, no noooo, no nooo nooo noo, no noooo nooooooo no.

Such an added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin Fedallah
Nooo no noooo, noooooo noooooooooo noooo no nooooo noo nooo Nooooooo

now; such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked dubious
noo; nooo noooooooo noooooooooo noooo noo; nooo noo noo nooooo noooooo

at him; half uncertain, as it seemed, whether indeed he were a mortal
no noo; nooo noooooooo, no no nooooo, noooooo nooooo no nooo n nooooo

substance, or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen
noooooooo, no nooo n noooooooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo no nooo nooooo

being's body. And that shadow was always hovering there. For not by
noooo'n nooo. Noo nooo nooooo noo nooooo nooooooo noooo. Noo noo no

night, even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go
noooo, nooo, noo Nooooooo nooo noooooooo nooo noooo no noooooo, no no

below. He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan
noooo. No noooo noooo noooo noo noooo: noo noooo noo no nooooo; noo noo

but wondrous eyes did plainly say--We two watchmen never rest.
noo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo noo--No noo nooooooo noooo nooo.




Nor, at any time, by night or day could the mariners now step upon the
Noo, no noo nooo, no noooo no noo noooo noo nooooooo noo nooo nooo noo

deck, unless Ahab was before them; either standing in his pivot-hole, or
nooo, nooooo Nooo noo nooooo nooo; nooooo nooooooo no noo noooo-nooo, no

exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating limits,--the main-mast
noooooo nooooo noo nooooo noooooo noo noooooooooo nooooo,--noo nooo-nooo

and the mizen; or else they saw him standing in the cabin-scuttle,--his
noo noo noooo; no nooo nooo noo noo nooooooo no noo noooo-noooooo,--noo

living foot advanced upon the deck, as if to step; his hat slouched
nooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo, no no no nooo; noo noo nooooooo

heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless he stood, however the
noooooo nooo noo nooo; no nooo noooooo nooooooooo no noooo, noooooo noo

days and nights were added on, that he had not swung in his hammock;
nooo noo nooooo nooo noooo no, nooo no noo noo noooo no noo noooooo;

yet hidden beneath that slouching hat, they could never tell unerringly
noo nooooo noooooo nooo noooooooo noo, nooo noooo noooo nooo nooooooooo

whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed at times; or whether
noooooo, noo noo nooo, noo nooo nooo nooooo nooooo no noooo; no noooooo

he was still intently scanning them; no matter, though he stood so in
no noo noooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo; no nooooo, nooooo no noooo no no

the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and the unheeded night-damp
noo noooooo noo n noooo nooo no noo noooooo, noo noo nooooooo noooo-nooo

gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved coat and hat. The
nooooooo no noooo no noo nooo nooo noooo-nooooo nooo noo noo. Noo

clothes that the night had wet, the next day's sunshine dried upon him;
noooooo nooo noo noooo noo noo, noo nooo noo'n nooooooo noooo nooo noo;

and so, day after day, and night after night; he went no more beneath
noo no, noo noooo noo, noo noooo noooo noooo; no nooo no nooo noooooo

the planks; whatever he wanted from the cabin that thing he sent for.
noo nooooo; nooooooo no nooooo nooo noo noooo nooo noooo no nooo noo.




He ate in the same open air; that is, his two only meals,--breakfast and
No noo no noo nooo nooo noo; nooo no, noo noo nooo noooo,--noooooooo noo

dinner: supper he never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darkly grew
nooooo: nooooo no noooo noooooo; noo nooooo noo noooo; noooo nooooo nooo

all gnarled, as unearthed roots of trees blown over, which still grow
noo noooooo, no noooooooo noooo no noooo noooo nooo, noooo noooo nooo

idly on at naked base, though perished in the upper verdure. But though
nooo no no noooo nooo, nooooo nooooooo no noo noooo noooooo. Noo nooooo

his whole life was now become one watch on deck; and though the Parsee's
noo noooo nooo noo noo nooooo noo noooo no nooo; noo nooooo noo Nooooo'n

mystic watch was without intermission as his own; yet these two never
nooooo noooo noo noooooo nooooooooooo no noo noo; noo noooo noo noooo

seemed to speak--one man to the other--unless at long intervals some
nooooo no noooo--noo noo no noo noooo--nooooo no nooo noooooooo nooo

passing unmomentous matter made it necessary. Though such a potent spell
noooooo noooooooooo nooooo nooo no noooooooo. Nooooo nooo n nooooo noooo

seemed secretly to join the twain; openly, and to the awe-struck crew,
nooooo nooooooo no nooo noo noooo; nooooo, noo no noo noo-nooooo nooo,

they seemed pole-like asunder. If by day they chanced to speak one word;
nooo nooooo nooo-nooo noooooo. No no noo nooo noooooo no noooo noo nooo;

by night, dumb men were both, so far as concerned the slightest verbal
no noooo, nooo noo nooo nooo, no noo no noooooooo noo noooooooo nooooo

interchange. At times, for longest hours, without a single hail, they
noooooooooo. No noooo, noo noooooo noooo, noooooo n nooooo nooo, nooo

stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in his scuttle, the Parsee by
noooo noo nooooo no noo noooooooo; Nooo no noo noooooo, noo Nooooo no

the mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon each other; as if in the
noo nooooooo; noo noooo noooooo nooooo nooo nooo noooo; no no no noo

Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab the Parsee his abandoned
Nooooo Nooo noo noo nooooooooo nooooo, no Nooo noo Nooooo noo noooooooo

substance.
noooooooo.




And yet, somehow, did Ahab--in his own proper self, as daily, hourly,
Noo noo, noooooo, noo Nooo--no noo noo nooooo nooo, no noooo, nooooo,

and every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,--Ahab
noo noooo noooooo, nooooooooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooooo,--Nooo

seemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave. Still again both
nooooo no noooooooooo nooo; noo Nooooo noo noo noooo. Noooo noooo nooo

seemed yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the lean shade
nooooo noooo nooooooo, noo no nooooo nooooo noooooo nooo; noo nooo noooo

siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and keel
nooooo noo noooo noo. Noo no nooo Nooooo nooo no noo, noo noo noo nooo

was solid Ahab.
noo noooo Nooo.




At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard
No noo noooo nooooooo nooooooooo no noo nooo, noo nooo noooo noo noooo

from aft,--"Man the mast-heads!"--and all through the day, till after
nooo noo,--"Noo noo nooo-noooo!"--noo noo noooooo noo noo, nooo noooo

sunset and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the striking of
nooooo noo noooo nooooooo, noo nooo noooo noooo nooo, no noo nooooooo no

the helmsman's bell, was heard--"What d'ye see?--sharp! sharp!"
noo nooooooo'n nooo, noo noooo--"Nooo n'no noo?--noooo! noooo!"




But when three or four days had slided by, after meeting the
Noo nooo noooo no nooo nooo noo nooooo no, noooo noooooo noo

children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniac
nooooooo-noooooo Nooooo; noo no noooo noo noo nooo nooo; noo nooooooooo

old man seemed distrustful of his crew's fidelity; at least, of nearly
noo noo nooooo noooooooooo no noo nooo'n nooooooo; no noooo, no nooooo

all except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether
noo nooooo noo Noooo noooooooooo; no nooooo no noooo, nooo, noooooo

Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought. But if
Noooo noo Noooo noooo noo noooooooo nooooooo noo noooo no nooooo. Noo no

these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from verbally
noooo nooooooooo nooo nooooo noo, no noooooooooo noooooooo nooo nooooooo

expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them.
nooooooooo nooo, noooooo noo noooooo noooo nooo no nooo nooo.




"I will have the first sight of the whale myself,"--he said. "Aye!
"N nooo nooo noo noooo noooo no noo noooo nooooo,"--no nooo. "Noo!

Ahab must have the doubloon! and with his own hands he rigged a nest
Nooo nooo nooo noo nooooooo! noo nooo noo noo noooo no nooooo n nooo

of basketed bowlines; and sending a hand aloft, with a single sheaved
no nooooooo nooooooo; noo noooooo n nooo noooo, nooo n nooooo noooooo

block, to secure to the main-mast head, he received the two ends of the
noooo, no nooooo no noo nooo-nooo nooo, no nooooooo noo noo nooo no noo

downward-reeved rope; and attaching one to his basket prepared a pin for
nooooooo-nooooo nooo; noo noooooooo noo no noo nooooo nooooooo n noo noo

the other end, in order to fasten it at the rail. This done, with that
noo noooo noo, no noooo no nooooo no no noo nooo. Nooo nooo, nooo nooo

end yet in his hand and standing beside the pin, he looked round upon
noo noo no noo nooo noo nooooooo nooooo noo noo, no nooooo noooo nooo

his crew, sweeping from one to the other; pausing his glance long upon
noo nooo, nooooooo nooo noo no noo noooo; noooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo

Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning Fedallah; and then settling his
Nooooo, Nooooooo, Nooooooo; noo nooooooo Nooooooo; noo nooo nooooooo noo

firm relying eye upon the chief mate, said,--"Take the rope, sir--I give
nooo noooooo noo nooo noo noooo nooo, nooo,--"Nooo noo nooo, noo--N nooo

it into thy hands, Starbuck." Then arranging his person in the basket,
no nooo noo noooo, Nooooooo." Nooo noooooooo noo nooooo no noo nooooo,

he gave the word for them to hoist him to his perch, Starbuck being
no nooo noo nooo noo nooo no noooo noo no noo noooo, Nooooooo noooo

the one who secured the rope at last; and afterwards stood near it. And
noo noo noo noooooo noo nooo no nooo; noo nooooooooo noooo nooo no. Noo

thus, with one hand clinging round the royal mast, Ahab gazed abroad
nooo, nooo noo nooo nooooooo noooo noo noooo nooo, Nooo noooo nooooo

upon the sea for miles and miles,--ahead, astern, this side, and
nooo noo noo noo noooo noo noooo,--noooo, nooooo, nooo nooo, noo

that,--within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height.
nooo,--nooooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooo noooooooo no no noooo n nooooo.




When in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place in
Nooo no noooooo nooo noo noooo no nooo noooo nooooo nooooooo noooo no

the rigging, which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea is
noo noooooo, noooo noooooo no nooooo no nooooooo, noo nooooo no noo no

hoisted up to that spot, and sustained there by the rope; under these
noooooo no no nooo nooo, noo noooooooo noooo no noo nooo; noooo noooo

circumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given in strict charge
noooooooooooo, noo nooooooo noo no nooo no nooooo noooo no nooooo nooooo

to some one man who has the special watch of it. Because in such a
no nooo noo noo noo noo noo noooooo noooo no no. Noooooo no nooo n

wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations aloft
nooooooooo no noooooo noooooo, noooo noooooo noooooooo noooooooo noooo

cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them at the
nooooo nooooo no nooooooooo noooooooo no nooo no nooo no nooo no noo

deck; and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every few minutes
nooo; noo nooo noo nooo-nooo no noooo noooo noo noooo noooo noo noooooo

cast down from the fastenings, it would be but a natural fatality, if,
nooo nooo nooo noo nooooooooo, no noooo no noo n noooooo nooooooo, no,

unprovided with a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor should by some
nooooooooo nooo n nooooooo nooooooo, noo noooooo nooooo nooooo no nooo

carelessness of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swooping to the
nooooooooooo no noo nooo no nooo nooooo noo nooo noo nooooooo no noo

sea. So Ahab's proceedings in this matter were not unusual; the only
noo. No Nooo'n noooooooooo no nooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo; noo nooo

strange thing about them seemed to be, that Starbuck, almost the one
noooooo noooo noooo nooo nooooo no no, nooo Nooooooo, nooooo noo noo

only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with anything in the
nooo noo noo noo nooo nooooooo no nooooo noo nooo nooooooo no noo

slightest degree approaching to decision--one of those too, whose
noooooooo nooooo noooooooooo no nooooooo--noo no noooo noo, noooo

faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt somewhat;--it was
nooooooooooo no noo nooo-noo no noo nooooo no noooo nooooooo;--no noo

strange, that this was the very man he should select for his watchman;
noooooo, nooo nooo noo noo nooo noo no nooooo nooooo noo noo nooooooo;

freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise distrusted person's
nooooo nooooo noo noooo nooo nooo nooo no noooooooo nooooooooo nooooo'n

hands.
noooo.




Now, the first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there ten
Noo, noo noooo nooo Nooo noo noooooo noooo; noo no noo nooo noooo noo

minutes; one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fly
noooooo; noo no noooo noo-nooooo nooooo noo-noooo noooo no noooo noo

incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these
nooooooooooooo noooo noooo noo nooooo nooo-noooo no nooooooo no noooo

latitudes; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head
noooooooo; noo no noooo noooo nooo nooooooo noo noooooooo noooo noo nooo

in a maze of untrackably swift circlings. Then it darted a thousand feet
no n nooo no noooooooooo noooo noooooooo. Nooo no nooooo n nooooooo nooo

straight up into the air; then spiralized downwards, and went eddying
nooooooo no nooo noo noo; nooo nooooooooo noooooooo, noo nooo noooooo

again round his head.
noooo noooo noo nooo.




But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemed
Noo nooo noo nooo noooo nooo noo noo noo noooooo noooooo, Nooo nooooo

not to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked
noo no nooo nooo nooo nooo; noo, nooooo, noooo noo noo nooo nooo nooooo

it much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least
no nooo, no noooo no nooooooo nooooooooooo; nooo noo nooooo noo noooo

heedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every
noooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo nooo no noooooo noooooo no nooooo noooo

sight.
noooo.




"Your hat, your hat, sir!" suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who
"Nooo noo, nooo noo, noo!" nooooooo noooo noo Nooooooo nooooo, noo

being posted at the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though
noooo nooooo no noo noooo-nooo-nooo, noooo nooooooo nooooo Nooo, nooooo

somewhat lower than his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing
nooooooo noooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo n nooo nooo no noo nooooooo

them.
nooo.




But already the sable wing was before the old man's eyes; the long
Noo noooooo noo noooo nooo noo nooooo noo noo noo'n nooo; noo nooo

hooked bill at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away with
nooooo nooo no noo nooo: nooo n nooooo, noo noooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo

his prize.
noo noooo.




An eagle flew thrice round Tarquin's head, removing his cap to replace
No noooo nooo nooooo noooo Noooooo'n nooo, nooooooo noo noo no noooooo

it, and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would
no, noo noooooooo Nooooooo, noo nooo, nooooooo nooo Noooooo noooo

be king of Rome. But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen
no nooo no Nooo. Noo nooo no noo noooooooo no noo noo noo nooo nooo

accounted good. Ahab's hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on and
noooooooo nooo. Nooo'n noo noo noooo nooooooo; noo nooo nooo nooo no noo

on with it; far in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared; while
no nooo no; noo no noooooo no noo nooo: noo no nooo noooooooooo; noooo

from the point of that disappearance, a minute black spot was dimly
nooo noo noooo no nooo noooooooooooo, n nooooo noooo nooo noo noooo

discerned, falling from that vast height into the sea.
noooooooo, noooooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo nooo noo noo.










CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooo Noooo Noo Noooooo.







The intense Pequod sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the
Noo noooooo Nooooo nooooo no; noo noooooo noooo noo nooo nooo no; noo

life-buoy-coffin still lightly swung; and another ship, most miserably
nooo-nooo-nooooo noooo noooooo noooo; noo noooooo nooo, nooo noooooooo

misnamed the Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were
nooooooo noo Noooooo, noo nooooooo. No noo nooo nooo, noo nooo nooo

fixed upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in some whaling-ships,
noooo nooo noo noooo noooo, nooooo nooooo, noooo, no nooo noooooo-noooo,

cross the quarter-deck at the height of eight or nine feet; serving to
noooo noo noooooo-nooo no noo nooooo no noooo no nooo nooo; noooooo no

carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats.
noooo noo noooo, nooooooo, no nooooooo noooo.




Upon the stranger's shears were beheld the shattered, white ribs, and
Nooo noo nooooooo'n nooooo nooo nooooo noo noooooooo, noooo nooo, noo

some few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but you
nooo noo nooooooooo nooooo, no nooo noo nooo nooo n noooo-nooo; noo noo

now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled,
noo noo noooooo nooo noooo, no noooooo no noo noo noooooo noo nooooo,

half-unhinged, and bleaching skeleton of a horse.
nooo-nooooooo, noo noooooooo nooooooo no n noooo.




"Hast seen the White Whale?"
"Nooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo?"




"Look!" replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and with
"Nooo!" noooooo noo nooooo-noooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooooo; noo nooo

his trumpet he pointed to the wreck.
noo noooooo no noooooo no noo noooo.




"Hast killed him?"
"Nooo nooooo noo?"




"The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that," answered the
"Noo noooooo no noo noo nooooo nooo nooo nooo no nooo," nooooooo noo

other, sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose gathered
noooo, noooo nooooooo nooo n noooooo noooooo no noo nooo, noooo nooooooo

sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together.
noooo nooo noooooooo noooooo nooo nooo no nooooo nooooooo.




"Not forged!" and snatching Perth's levelled iron from the crotch, Ahab
"Noo nooooo!" noo noooooooo Noooo'n nooooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo, Nooo

held it out, exclaiming--"Look ye, Nantucketer; here in this hand I hold
nooo no noo, nooooooooo--"Nooo no, Noooooooooo; nooo no nooo nooo N nooo

his death! Tempered in blood, and tempered by lightning are these barbs;
noo noooo! Nooooooo no noooo, noo nooooooo no noooooooo noo noooo noooo;

and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place behind the fin,
noo N noooo no nooooo nooo nooooo no nooo noo noooo nooooo noo noo,

where the White Whale most feels his accursed life!"
noooo noo Noooo Noooo nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo!"




"Then God keep thee, old man--see'st thou that"--pointing to the
"Nooo Noo nooo nooo, noo noo--noo'no nooo nooo"--nooooooo no noo

hammock--"I bury but one of five stout men, who were alive only
noooooo--"N nooo noo noo no nooo noooo noo, noo nooo noooo nooo

yesterday; but were dead ere night. Only THAT one I bury; the rest were
noooooooo; noo nooo nooo noo noooo. Nooo NOOO noo N nooo; noo nooo nooo

buried before they died; you sail upon their tomb." Then turning to his
nooooo nooooo nooo nooo; noo nooo nooo noooo nooo." Nooo noooooo no noo

crew--"Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, and
nooo--"Noo no noooo noooo? noooo noo noooo nooo no noo nooo, noo

lift the body; so, then--Oh! God"--advancing towards the hammock with
nooo noo nooo; no, nooo--No! Noo"--noooooooo noooooo noo noooooo nooo

uplifted hands--"may the resurrection and the life--"
nooooooo noooo--"noo noo nooooooooooo noo noo nooo--"




"Brace forward! Up helm!" cried Ahab like lightning to his men.
"Noooo noooooo! No nooo!" noooo Nooo nooo noooooooo no noo noo.




But the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape the sound
Noo noo nooooooo noooooo Nooooo noo noo noooo nooooo no nooooo noo noooo

of the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; not so
no noo nooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo nooo no no nooooo noo noo; noo no

quick, indeed, but that some of the flying bubbles might have sprinkled
noooo, nooooo, noo nooo nooo no noo nooooo noooooo noooo nooo noooooooo

her hull with their ghostly baptism.
noo nooo nooo noooo noooooo noooooo.




As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight, the strange life-buoy
No Nooo noo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo Noooooo, noo noooooo nooo-nooo

hanging at the Pequod's stern came into conspicuous relief.
noooooo no noo Nooooo'n noooo nooo nooo noooooooooo nooooo.




"Ha! yonder! look yonder, men!" cried a foreboding voice in her wake.
"No! nooooo! nooo nooooo, noo!" noooo n nooooooooo noooo no noo nooo.

"In vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us your
"No nooo, no, no noooooooo, no noo noo noo nooooo; no noo nooo no nooo

taffrail to show us your coffin!"
nooooooo no nooo no nooo nooooo!"










CHAPTER 132. The Symphony.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Nooooooo.







It was a clear steel-blue day. The firmaments of air and sea were
No noo n noooo noooo-nooo noo. Noo nooooooooo no noo noo noo nooo

hardly separable in that all-pervading azure; only, the pensive air was
nooooo noooooooo no nooo noo-noooooooo noooo; nooo, noo noooooo noo noo

transparently pure and soft, with a woman's look, and the robust and
noooooooooooo nooo noo nooo, nooo n noooo'n nooo, noo noo nooooo noo

man-like sea heaved with long, strong, lingering swells, as Samson's
noo-nooo noo nooooo nooo nooo, nooooo, noooooooo nooooo, no Nooooo'n

chest in his sleep.
noooo no noo noooo.




Hither, and thither, on high, glided the snow-white wings of small,
Nooooo, noo noooooo, no nooo, nooooo noo nooo-noooo noooo no noooo,

unspeckled birds; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air;
nooooooooo noooo; noooo nooo noo nooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo noo;

but to and fro in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed
noo no noo noo no noo noooo, noo nooo no noo nooooooooo nooo, nooooo

mighty leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong,
nooooo nooooooooo, noooo-nooo, noo nooooo; noo noooo nooo noo nooooo,

troubled, murderous thinkings of the masculine sea.
nooooooo, noooooooo noooooooo no noo noooooooo noo.




But though thus contrasting within, the contrast was only in shades and
Noo nooooo nooo noooooooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo noo nooo no nooooo noo

shadows without; those two seemed one; it was only the sex, as it were,
noooooo noooooo; noooo noo nooooo noo; no noo nooo noo noo, no no nooo,

that distinguished them.
nooo noooooooooooo nooo.




Aloft, like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle
Noooo, nooo n noooo nooo noo nooo, noo noo nooooo nooooo nooo nooooo

air to this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at the
noo no nooo nooo noo noooooo noo; nooo no noooo no noooo. Noo no noo

girdling line of the horizon, a soft and tremulous motion--most seen
nooooooo nooo no noo noooooo, n nooo noo noooooooo nooooo--nooo nooo

here at the Equator--denoted the fond, throbbing trust, the loving
nooo no noo Noooooo--noooooo noo nooo, noooooooo noooo, noo nooooo

alarms, with which the poor bride gave her bosom away.
nooooo, nooo noooo noo nooo noooo nooo noo noooo nooo.




Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm
Nooo no noo noooooo; noooooo noo noooooo nooo nooooooo; noooooooo nooo

and unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the
noo nooooooooo; noo nooo noooooo nooo noooo, nooo noooo nooo no noo

ashes of ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the
noooo no nooo; noooooooooo Nooo noooo noooo no noo noooooooo no noo

morn; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl's
nooo; noooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo no n nooo no noo nooo nooo'n

forehead of heaven.
nooooooo no nooooo.




Oh, immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure! Invisible winged
No, nooooooo noooooo, noo noooooooo no noo noooo! Noooooooo nooooo

creatures that frolic all round us! Sweet childhood of air and sky! how
noooooooo nooo nooooo noo noooo no! Noooo noooooooo no noo noo noo! noo

oblivious were ye of old Ahab's close-coiled woe! But so have I seen
noooooooo nooo no no noo Nooo'n noooo-nooooo noo! Noo no nooo N nooo

little Miriam and Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around
nooooo Nooooo noo Nooooo, nooooooo-nooo noooo, nooooooooo nooooo nooooo

their old sire; sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on
noooo noo nooo; nooooooo nooo noo nooooo no nooooo noooo noooo nooo no

the marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain.
noo noooo no nooo noooo-noo nooooo no noo noooo.




Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle, Ahab leaned over the side and
Nooooo nooooooo noo nooo nooo noo noooooo, Nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo noo

watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, the more
noooooo noo noo nooooo no noo noooo nooo noo nooo no noo nooo, noo nooo

and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity. But the lovely
noo noo nooo nooo no nooooo no nooooo noo nooooooooo. Noo noo nooooo

aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a moment,
nooooo no nooo noooooooo noo noo no nooo nooo no nooooo, noo n nooooo,

the cankerous thing in his soul. That glad, happy air, that winsome
noo noooooooo noooo no noo nooo. Nooo nooo, noooo noo, nooo noooooo

sky, did at last stroke and caress him; the step-mother world, so long
noo, noo no nooo nooooo noo nooooo noo; noo nooo-nooooo noooo, no nooo

cruel--forbidding--now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn neck,
noooo--nooooooooo--noo noooo nooooooooooo nooo noooo noo nooooooo nooo,

and did seem to joyously sob over him, as if over one, that however
noo noo nooo no nooooooo noo nooo noo, no no nooo noo, nooo noooooo

wilful and erring, she could yet find it in her heart to save and to
nooooo noo nooooo, noo noooo noo nooo no no noo noooo no nooo noo no

bless. From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into the sea;
noooo. Nooo noooooo noo nooooooo noo Nooo noooooo n nooo nooo noo noo;

nor did all the Pacific contain such wealth as that one wee drop.
noo noo noo noo Noooooo noooooo nooo nooooo no nooo noo noo nooo.




Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the side;
Nooooooo noo noo noo noo; noo noo, noo no noooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo;

and he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing that
noo no nooooo no nooo no noo noo nooo noooo noo noooooooooo noooooo nooo

stole out of the centre of the serenity around. Careful not to touch
noooo noo no noo nooooo no noo nooooooo nooooo. Noooooo noo no noooo

him, or be noticed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stood there.
noo, no no noooooo no noo, no noo nooo nooo no noo, noo noooo noooo.




Ahab turned.
Nooo nooooo.




"Starbuck!"
"Nooooooo!"




"Sir."
"Noo."




"Oh, Starbuck! it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky. On such
"No, Nooooooo! no no n nooo, nooo nooo, noo n nooo noooooo noo. No nooo

a day--very much such a sweetness as this--I struck my first whale--a
n noo--nooo nooo nooo n noooooooo no nooo--N nooooo no noooo noooo--n

boy-harpooneer of eighteen! Forty--forty--forty years ago!--ago! Forty
noo-nooooooooo no nooooooo! Noooo--noooo--noooo noooo noo!--noo! Noooo

years of continual whaling! forty years of privation, and peril, and
noooo no noooooooo noooooo! noooo noooo no noooooooo, noo noooo, noo

storm-time! forty years on the pitiless sea! for forty years has Ahab
noooo-nooo! noooo noooo no noo nooooooo noo! noo noooo noooo noo Nooo

forsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors
nooooooo noo nooooooo nooo, noo noooo noooo no nooo noo no noo noooooo

of the deep! Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not
no noo nooo! Noo noo noo, Nooooooo, noo no noooo noooo noooo N nooo noo

spent three ashore. When I think of this life I have led; the desolation
noooo noooo nooooo. Nooo N noooo no nooo nooo N nooo noo; noo nooooooooo

of solitude it has been; the masoned, walled-town of a Captain's
no nooooooo no noo nooo; noo noooooo, nooooo-nooo no n Noooooo'n

exclusiveness, which admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the
noooooooooooo, noooo nooooo noo noooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo nooo noo

green country without--oh, weariness! heaviness! Guinea-coast slavery of
noooo noooooo noooooo--no, noooooooo! noooooooo! Nooooo-noooo noooooo no

solitary command!--when I think of all this; only half-suspected, not so
nooooooo noooooo!--nooo N noooo no noo nooo; nooo nooo-noooooooo, noo no

keenly known to me before--and how for forty years I have fed upon dry
nooooo noooo no no nooooo--noo noo noo noooo noooo N nooo noo nooo noo

salted fare--fit emblem of the dry nourishment of my soil!--when the
nooooo nooo--noo nooooo no noo noo noooooooooo no no nooo!--nooo noo

poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily hand, and broken the
noooooo nooooooo noo noo noooo noooo no noo noooo nooo, noo nooooo noo

world's fresh bread to my mouldy crusts--away, whole oceans away, from
noooo'n noooo noooo no no nooooo nooooo--nooo, noooo nooooo nooo, nooo

that young girl-wife I wedded past fifty, and sailed for Cape Horn
nooo noooo nooo-nooo N nooooo nooo noooo, noo nooooo noo Nooo Nooo

the next day, leaving but one dent in my marriage pillow--wife?
noo nooo noo, noooooo noo noo nooo no no nooooooo nooooo--nooo?

wife?--rather a widow with her husband alive! Aye, I widowed that poor
nooo?--nooooo n noooo nooo noo noooooo noooo! Noo, N noooooo nooo nooo

girl when I married her, Starbuck; and then, the madness, the frenzy,
nooo nooo N noooooo noo, Nooooooo; noo nooo, noo noooooo, noo nooooo,

the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with which, for a thousand
noo noooooo noooo noo noo noooooo nooo, nooo noooo, noo n nooooooo

lowerings old Ahab has furiously, foamingly chased his prey--more a
noooooooo noo Nooo noo noooooooo, noooooooo nooooo noo nooo--nooo n

demon than a man!--aye, aye! what a forty years' fool--fool--old fool,
noooo nooo n noo!--noo, noo! nooo n noooo noooo' nooo--nooo--noo nooo,

has old Ahab been! Why this strife of the chase? why weary, and palsy
noo noo Nooo nooo! Noo nooo nooooo no noo noooo? noo noooo, noo noooo

the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance? how the richer or
noo noo no noo noo, noo noo nooo, noo noo noooo? noo noo nooooo no

better is Ahab now? Behold. Oh, Starbuck! is it not hard, that with this
nooooo no Nooo noo? Nooooo. No, Nooooooo! no no noo nooo, nooo nooo nooo

weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been snatched from under
noooo nooo N nooo, noo nooo noo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noooo

me? Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me, that I seem to weep.
no? Nooo, noooo nooo noo nooo noooo; no nooooo no, nooo N nooo no nooo.

Locks so grey did never grow but from out some ashes! But do I look
Noooo no nooo noo noooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo noooo! Noo no N nooo

very old, so very, very old, Starbuck? I feel deadly faint, bowed, and
nooo noo, no nooo, nooo noo, Nooooooo? N nooo nooooo noooo, noooo, noo

humped, as though I were Adam, staggering beneath the piled
nooooo, no nooooo N nooo Nooo, nooooooooo noooooo noo noooo

centuries since Paradise. God! God! God!--crack my heart!--stave my
noooooooo noooo Nooooooo. Noo! Noo! Noo!--noooo no noooo!--noooo no

brain!--mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of grey hairs, have
noooo!--noooooo! noooooo! nooooo, nooooo noooooo no nooo noooo, nooo

I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thus intolerably old?
N noooo nooooo noo no nooo no; noo nooo noo nooo nooo noooooooooo noo?

Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into a human eye; it is
Noooo! noooo noooo no no, Nooooooo; noo no nooo nooo n noooo noo; no no

better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than to gaze upon God. By
nooooo nooo no nooo nooo noo no noo; nooooo nooo no nooo nooo Noo. No

the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this is the magic glass,
noo noooo nooo; no noo nooooo nooooo-noooo! nooo no noo noooo noooo,

man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no; stay on board, on
noo; N noo no nooo noo no noooo no noooo noo. No, no; nooo no noooo, no

board!--lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives chase to Moby Dick.
noooo!--noooo noo nooo N no; nooo noooooo Nooo noooo noooo no Nooo Nooo.

That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not with the far away home I see
Nooo nooooo noooo noo no noooo. No, no! noo nooo noo noo nooo nooo N noo

in that eye!"
no nooo noo!"




"Oh, my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all! why
"No, no Noooooo! no Noooooo! noooo nooo! noooo noo noooo, noooo noo! noo

should any one give chase to that hated fish! Away with me! let us
nooooo noo noo nooo noooo no nooo noooo nooo! Nooo nooo no! noo no

fly these deadly waters! let us home! Wife and child, too, are
noo noooo nooooo nooooo! noo no nooo! Nooo noo noooo, noo, noo

Starbuck's--wife and child of his brotherly, sisterly, play-fellow
Nooooooo'n--nooo noo noooo no noo noooooooo, nooooooo, nooo-nooooo

youth; even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving,
noooo; nooo no noooo, noo, noo noo nooo noo noooo no noo nooooo,

longing, paternal old age! Away! let us away!--this instant let me alter
noooooo, nooooooo noo noo! Nooo! noo no nooo!--nooo noooooo noo no noooo

the course! How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl
noo nooooo! Noo nooooooo, noo noooooooooo, N no Noooooo, noooo no nooo

on our way to see old Nantucket again! I think, sir, they have some such
no noo noo no noo noo Noooooooo noooo! N noooo, noo, nooo nooo nooo nooo

mild blue days, even as this, in Nantucket."
nooo nooo nooo, nooo no nooo, no Noooooooo."




"They have, they have. I have seen them--some summer days in the
"Nooo nooo, nooo nooo. N nooo nooo nooo--nooo nooooo nooo no noo

morning. About this time--yes, it is his noon nap now--the boy
noooooo. Noooo nooo nooo--noo, no no noo nooo noo noo--noo noo

vivaciously wakes; sits up in bed; and his mother tells him of me, of
noooooooooo noooo; nooo no no noo; noo noo nooooo noooo noo no no, no

cannibal old me; how I am abroad upon the deep, but will yet come back
nooooooo noo no; noo N no nooooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooo

to dance him again."
no noooo noo noooo."




"'Tis my Mary, my Mary herself! She promised that my boy, every morning,
"'Noo no Nooo, no Nooo noooooo! Noo nooooooo nooo no noo, noooo noooooo,

should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of his father's
nooooo no noooooo no noo nooo no noooo noo noooo noooooo no noo nooooo'n

sail! Yes, yes! no more! it is done! we head for Nantucket! Come, my
nooo! Noo, noo! no nooo! no no nooo! no nooo noo Noooooooo! Nooo, no

Captain, study out the course, and let us away! See, see! the boy's face
Noooooo, noooo noo noo nooooo, noo noo no nooo! Noo, noo! noo noo'n nooo

from the window! the boy's hand on the hill!"
nooo noo nooooo! noo noo'n nooo no noo nooo!"




But Ahab's glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he shook, and
Noo Nooo'n nooooo noo noooooo; nooo n nooooooo noooo nooo no noooo, noo

cast his last, cindered apple to the soil.
nooo noo nooo, nooooooo noooo no noo nooo.




"What is it, what nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; what
"Nooo no no, nooo nooooooo, noooooooooo, noooooooo noooo no no; nooo

cozening, hidden lord and master, and cruel, remorseless emperor
nooooooo, nooooo nooo noo nooooo, noo noooo, noooooooooo noooooo

commands me; that against all natural lovings and longings, I so keep
nooooooo no; nooo noooooo noo noooooo noooooo noo nooooooo, N no nooo

pushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on all the time; recklessly
noooooo, noo nooooooo, noo noooooo nooooo no noo noo nooo; nooooooooo

making me ready to do what in my own proper, natural heart, I durst not
nooooo no noooo no no nooo no no noo nooooo, noooooo noooo, N noooo noo

so much as dare? Is Ahab, Ahab? Is it I, God, or who, that lifts this
no nooo no nooo? No Nooo, Nooo? No no N, Noo, no noo, nooo noooo nooo

arm? But if the great sun move not of himself; but is as an errand-boy
noo? Noo no noo noooo noo nooo noo no noooooo; noo no no no nooooo-noo

in heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some invisible power;
no nooooo; noo noo nooooo nooo noo noooooo, noo no nooo noooooooo noooo;

how then can this one small heart beat; this one small brain think
noo nooo noo nooo noo noooo noooo nooo; nooo noo noooo noooo noooo

thoughts; unless God does that beating, does that thinking, does that
nooooooo; nooooo Noo nooo nooo noooooo, nooo nooo nooooooo, nooo nooo

living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round in
nooooo, noo noo N. No nooooo, noo, no noo nooooo noooo noo noooo no

this world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike. And all
nooo noooo, nooo nooooo nooooooo, noo Nooo no noo noooooooo. Noo noo

the time, lo! that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea! Look! see yon
noo nooo, no! nooo noooooo noo, noo nooo noooooooo noo! Nooo! noo noo

Albicore! who put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish? Where
Nooooooo! noo noo no nooo noo no noooo noo nooo nooo nooooo-nooo? Noooo

do murderers go, man! Who's to doom, when the judge himself is dragged
no noooooooo no, noo! Noo'n no nooo, nooo noo noooo noooooo no noooooo

to the bar? But it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; and
no noo noo? Noo no no n nooo, nooo nooo, noo n nooo noooooo noo; noo

the air smells now, as if it blew from a far-away meadow; they have been
noo noo nooooo noo, no no no nooo nooo n noo-nooo nooooo; nooo nooo nooo

making hay somewhere under the slopes of the Andes, Starbuck, and the
nooooo noo noooooooo noooo noo nooooo no noo Noooo, Nooooooo, noo noo

mowers are sleeping among the new-mown hay. Sleeping? Aye, toil we how
nooooo noo nooooooo noooo noo noo-nooo noo. Nooooooo? Noo, nooo no noo

we may, we all sleep at last on the field. Sleep? Aye, and rust amid
no noo, no noo noooo no nooo no noo noooo. Noooo? Noo, noo nooo nooo

greenness; as last year's scythes flung down, and left in the half-cut
noooooooo; no nooo nooo'n noooooo noooo nooo, noo nooo no noo nooo-noo

swaths--Starbuck!"
nooooo--Nooooooo!"




But blanched to a corpse's hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away.
Noo nooooooo no n nooooo'n noo nooo noooooo, noo Nooo noo nooooo nooo.




Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side; but started at
Nooo noooooo noo nooo no nooo nooo no noo noooo nooo; noo noooooo no

two reflected, fixed eyes in the water there. Fedallah was motionlessly
noo noooooooo, noooo nooo no noo noooo noooo. Nooooooo noo nooooooooooo

leaning over the same rail.
noooooo nooo noo nooo nooo.










CHAPTER 133. The Chase--First Day.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noooo--Noooo Noo.







That night, in the mid-watch, when the old man--as his wont at
Nooo noooo, no noo noo-noooo, nooo noo noo noo--no noo nooo no

intervals--stepped forth from the scuttle in which he leaned, and went
noooooooo--noooooo noooo nooo noo noooooo no noooo no nooooo, noo nooo

to his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely, snuffing
no noo noooo-nooo, no nooooooo nooooo noo noo nooo nooooooo, nooooooo

up the sea air as a sagacious ship's dog will, in drawing nigh to
no noo noo noo no n noooooooo nooo'n noo nooo, no noooooo nooo no

some barbarous isle. He declared that a whale must be near. Soon that
nooo noooooooo nooo. No nooooooo nooo n noooo nooo no nooo. Nooo nooo

peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the
nooooooo nooo, noooooooo no n noooo nooooooo noooo noooo no noo

living sperm whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any mariner
nooooo noooo noooo, noo nooooooo no noo noo noooo; noo noo noo noooooo

surprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane, and
noooooooo nooo, noooo nooooooooo noo noooooo, noo nooo noo noo-nooo, noo

then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as possible,
nooo nooooooooooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo nooo no nooooo no nooooooo,

Ahab rapidly ordered the ship's course to be slightly altered, and the
Nooo noooooo noooooo noo nooo'n nooooo no no nooooooo noooooo, noo noo

sail to be shortened.
nooo no no noooooooo.




The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated
Noo noooo nooooo noooooooo noooo noooooooo noo nooooooooooo nooooooooo

at daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and
no nooooooo, no noo noooo no n nooo noooo no noo noo nooooooo noo

lengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery
nooooooooo noooo, nooooo no noo, noo nooooooooo no noo noooooo nooooo

wrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift
nooooooo noooooooo no, noo nooooooo nooooooo-nooo noooo no nooo noooo

tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.
nooo-noo, no noo noooo no n nooo, noooo nooooo.




"Man the mast-heads! Call all hands!"
"Noo noo nooo-noooo! Nooo noo noooo!"




Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle
Nooooooooo nooo noo noooo no noooo noooooo nooooooooo no noo nooooooooo

deck, Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that they
nooo, Nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo nooooooo noooo nooo nooo

seemed to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appear
nooooo no nooooo nooo noo noooooo, no noooooooooooooo noo nooo nooooo

with their clothes in their hands.
nooo noooo noooooo no noooo noooo.




"What d'ye see?" cried Ahab, flattening his face to the sky.
"Nooo n'no noo?" noooo Nooo, nooooooooo noo nooo no noo noo.




"Nothing, nothing sir!" was the sound hailing down in reply.
"Noooooo, noooooo noo!" noo noo noooo noooooo nooo no noooo.




"T'gallant sails!--stunsails! alow and aloft, and on both sides!"
"N'noooooo noooo!--noooooooo! nooo noo noooo, noo no nooo noooo!"




All sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved for
Noo nooo noooo noo, no noo nooo noooo noo nooo-nooo, nooooooo noo

swaying him to the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they were
noooooo noo no noo nooo noooo-nooo nooo; noo no n noo noooooo nooo nooo

hoisting him thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft,
nooooooo noo noooooo, nooo, noooo noo noo nooooo no noo noo noooo,

and while peering ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the
noo noooo noooooo noooo noooooo noo nooooooooo noooooo noooooo noo

main-top-sail and top-gallant-sail, he raised a gull-like cry in the
nooo-noo-nooo noo noo-noooooo-nooo, no nooooo n nooo-nooo noo no noo

air. "There she blows!--there she blows! A hump like a snow-hill! It is
noo. "Noooo noo noooo!--noooo noo noooo! N nooo nooo n nooo-nooo! No no

Moby Dick!"
Nooo Nooo!"




Fired by the cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by the three
Noooo no noo noo noooo nooooo nooooooooooooo noooo no no noo noooo

look-outs, the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famous
nooo-nooo, noo noo no nooo nooooo no noo noooooo no nooooo noo nooooo

whale they had so long been pursuing. Ahab had now gained his final
noooo nooo noo no nooo nooo nooooooo. Nooo noo noo nooooo noo noooo

perch, some feet above the other look-outs, Tashtego standing just
noooo, nooo nooo noooo noo noooo nooo-nooo, Nooooooo nooooooo nooo

beneath him on the cap of the top-gallant-mast, so that the Indian's
noooooo noo no noo noo no noo noo-noooooo-nooo, no nooo noo Nooooo'n

head was almost on a level with Ahab's heel. From this height the whale
nooo noo nooooo no n noooo nooo Nooo'n nooo. Nooo nooo nooooo noo noooo

was now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of the sea revealing
noo noo nooo nooo nooo no no noooo, no noooo nooo no noo noo noooooooo

his high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout into the
noo nooo noooooooo nooo, noo noooooooo noooooo noo nooooo noooo nooo noo

air. To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout they had
noo. No noo noooooooo nooooooo no nooooo noo nooo nooooo noooo nooo noo

so long ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans.
no nooo noo nooooo no noo noooooo Nooooooo noo Nooooo Nooooo.




"And did none of ye see it before?" cried Ahab, hailing the perched men
"Noo noo nooo no no noo no nooooo?" noooo Nooo, noooooo noo noooooo noo

all around him.
noo nooooo noo.




"I saw him almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and I
"N noo noo nooooo nooo nooo noooooo, noo, nooo Noooooo Nooo noo, noo N

cried out," said Tashtego.
noooo noo," nooo Nooooooo.




"Not the same instant; not the same--no, the doubloon is mine, Fate
"Noo noo nooo noooooo; noo noo nooo--no, noo nooooooo no nooo, Nooo

reserved the doubloon for me. I only; none of ye could have raised the
nooooooo noo nooooooo noo no. N nooo; nooo no no noooo nooo nooooo noo

White Whale first. There she blows!--there she blows!--there she blows!
Noooo Noooo noooo. Noooo noo noooo!--noooo noo noooo!--noooo noo noooo!

There again!--there again!" he cried, in long-drawn, lingering, methodic
Noooo noooo!--noooo noooo!" no noooo, no nooo-noooo, noooooooo, nooooooo

tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale's visible jets.
noooo, noooooo no noo noooooo noooooooooo no noo noooo'n noooooo nooo.

"He's going to sound! In stunsails! Down top-gallant-sails! Stand by
"No'n noooo no noooo! No noooooooo! Nooo noo-noooooo-noooo! Noooo no

three boats. Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship.
noooo noooo. No. Nooooooo, nooooooo, nooo no noooo, noo nooo noo nooo.

Helm there! Luff, luff a point! So; steady, man, steady! There go
Nooo noooo! Nooo, nooo n noooo! No; nooooo, noo, nooooo! Noooo no

flukes! No, no; only black water! All ready the boats there? Stand by,
nooooo! No, no; nooo noooo noooo! Noo noooo noo noooo noooo? Noooo no,

stand by! Lower me, Mr. Starbuck; lower, lower,--quick, quicker!" and he
noooo no! Noooo no, No. Nooooooo; noooo, noooo,--noooo, noooooo!" noo no

slid through the air to the deck.
nooo noooooo noo noo no noo nooo.




"He is heading straight to leeward, sir," cried Stubb, "right away from
"No no noooooo nooooooo no noooooo, noo," noooo Noooo, "noooo nooo nooo

us; cannot have seen the ship yet."
no; nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo noo."




"Be dumb, man! Stand by the braces! Hard down the helm!--brace up!
"No nooo, noo! Noooo no noo nooooo! Nooo nooo noo nooo!--noooo no!

Shiver her!--shiver her!--So; well that! Boats, boats!"
Nooooo noo!--nooooo noo!--No; nooo nooo! Noooo, noooo!"




Soon all the boats but Starbuck's were dropped; all the boat-sails
Nooo noo noo noooo noo Nooooooo'n nooo noooooo; noo noo nooo-noooo

set--all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to
noo--noo noo noooooo nooooo; nooo nooooooo noooooooo, nooooooo no

leeward; and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit up
noooooo; noo Nooo noooooo noo noooo. N nooo, noooo-noooooo noo no

Fedallah's sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.
Nooooooo'n nooooo nooo; n noooooo nooooo nooooo noo noooo.




Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea;
Nooo noooooooo nooooooo nooooo, noooo noooo noooo nooo noooooo noo noo;

but only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ocean grew
noo nooo nooooo nooo nooooo noo noo. No nooo nooooo noo, noo noooo nooo

still more smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a
noooo nooo nooooo; nooooo noooooo n nooooo nooo noo noooo; nooooo n

noon-meadow, so serenely it spread. At length the breathless hunter came
nooo-nooooo, no nooooooo no nooooo. No nooooo noo nooooooooo nooooo nooo

so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling hump
no nooo noo noooooooo nooooooooooo nooo, nooo noo nooooo nooooooo nooo

was distinctly visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolated thing,
noo nooooooooo noooooo, noooooo noooo noo noo no no no nooooooo noooo,

and continually set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy, greenish
noo noooooooooo noo no n noooooooo nooo no nooooo, nooooo, nooooooo

foam. He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightly projecting head
nooo. No noo noo nooo, nooooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo nooooooooo nooo

beyond. Before it, far out on the soft Turkish-rugged waters, went
nooooo. Nooooo no, noo noo no noo nooo Noooooo-nooooo nooooo, nooo

the glistening white shadow from his broad, milky forehead, a musical
noo nooooooooo noooo nooooo nooo noo noooo, noooo nooooooo, n noooooo

rippling playfully accompanying the shade; and behind, the blue waters
nooooooo noooooooo nooooooooooo noo noooo; noo nooooo, noo nooo nooooo

interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley of his steady wake;
noooooooooooooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo nooooo no noo nooooo nooo;

and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his side. But
noo no nooooo nooo nooooo noooooo noooo noo nooooo no noo nooo. Noo

these were broken again by the light toes of hundreds of gay fowl softly
noooo nooo nooooo noooo no noo noooo nooo no nooooooo no noo nooo nooooo

feathering the sea, alternate with their fitful flight; and like to
nooooooooo noo noo, noooooooo nooo noooo nooooo nooooo; noo nooo no

some flag-staff rising from the painted hull of an argosy, the tall but
nooo nooo-noooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo no no nooooo, noo nooo noo

shattered pole of a recent lance projected from the white whale's back;
noooooooo nooo no n nooooo noooo noooooooo nooo noo noooo noooo'n nooo;

and at intervals one of the cloud of soft-toed fowls hovering, and
noo no noooooooo noo no noo noooo no nooo-nooo noooo nooooooo, noo

to and fro skimming like a canopy over the fish, silently perched and
no noo noo nooooooo nooo n nooooo nooo noo nooo, nooooooo noooooo noo

rocked on this pole, the long tail feathers streaming like pennons.
nooooo no nooo nooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooo noooooooo nooo noooooo.




A gentle joyousness--a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested
N nooooo nooooooooo--n nooooo nooooooo no nooooo no noooooooo, nooooooo

the gliding whale. Not the white bull Jupiter swimming away with
noo noooooo noooo. Noo noo noooo nooo Noooooo nooooooo nooo nooo

ravished Europa clinging to his graceful horns; his lovely, leering
nooooooo Nooooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo noooo; noo nooooo, noooooo

eyes sideways intent upon the maid; with smooth bewitching fleetness,
nooo nooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo; nooo nooooo nooooooooo noooooooo,

rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not that
nooooooo nooooooo noo noo noooooo noooo no Noooo; noo Nooo, noo nooo

great majesty Supreme! did surpass the glorified White Whale as he so
noooo noooooo Noooooo! noo noooooo noo noooooooo Noooo Noooo no no no

divinely swam.
nooooooo nooo.




On each soft side--coincident with the parted swell, that but once
No nooo nooo nooo--nooooooooo nooo noo nooooo noooo, nooo noo nooo

leaving him, then flowed so wide away--on each bright side, the whale
noooooo noo, nooo nooooo no nooo nooo--no nooo nooooo nooo, noo noooo

shed off enticings. No wonder there had been some among the hunters who
nooo noo noooooooo. No nooooo noooo noo nooo nooo noooo noo noooooo noo

namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured
nooooooooo noooooooooo noo noooooo no noo nooo nooooooo, noo nooooooo

to assail it; but had fatally found that quietude but the vesture of
no nooooo no; noo noo noooooo noooo nooo nooooooo noo noo noooooo no

tornadoes. Yet calm, enticing calm, oh, whale! thou glidest on, to all
noooooooo. Noo nooo, nooooooo nooo, no, noooo! nooo noooooo no, no noo

who for the first time eye thee, no matter how many in that same way
noo noo noo noooo nooo noo nooo, no nooooo noo nooo no nooo nooo noo

thou may'st have bejuggled and destroyed before.
nooo noo'no nooo noooooooo noo noooooooo nooooo.




And thus, through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea, among
Noo nooo, noooooo noo nooooo nooooooooooooo no noo nooooooo noo, noooo

waves whose hand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, Moby
noooo noooo nooo-noooooooo nooo noooooooo no noooooooo noooooo, Nooo

Dick moved on, still withholding from sight the full terrors of his
Nooo noooo no, noooo noooooooooo nooo noooo noo nooo noooooo no noo

submerged trunk, entirely hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw.
noooooooo noooo, nooooooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooooooooo no noo noo.

But soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water; for an instant
Noo nooo noo nooo nooo no noo nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo; noo no noooooo

his whole marbleized body formed a high arch, like Virginia's Natural
noo noooo nooooooooo nooo nooooo n nooo nooo, nooo Nooooooo'n Noooooo

Bridge, and warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air, the
Nooooo, noo noooooooo nooooo noo nooooooo nooooo no noo noo, noo

grand god revealed himself, sounded, and went out of sight. Hoveringly
noooo noo nooooooo noooooo, noooooo, noo nooo noo no noooo. Nooooooooo

halting, and dipping on the wing, the white sea-fowls longingly lingered
noooooo, noo noooooo no noo nooo, noo noooo noo-noooo noooooooo nooooooo

over the agitated pool that he left.
nooo noo nooooooo nooo nooo no nooo.




With oars apeak, and paddles down, the sheets of their sails adrift, the
Nooo nooo noooo, noo noooooo nooo, noo nooooo no noooo noooo nooooo, noo

three boats now stilly floated, awaiting Moby Dick's reappearance.
noooo noooo noo nooooo noooooo, nooooooo Nooo Nooo'n nooooooooooo.




"An hour," said Ahab, standing rooted in his boat's stern; and he gazed
"No nooo," nooo Nooo, nooooooo nooooo no noo nooo'n noooo; noo no noooo

beyond the whale's place, towards the dim blue spaces and wide wooing
nooooo noo noooo'n noooo, noooooo noo noo nooo nooooo noo nooo nooooo

vacancies to leeward. It was only an instant; for again his eyes seemed
noooooooo no noooooo. No noo nooo no noooooo; noo noooo noo nooo nooooo

whirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle. The breeze now
nooooooo noooo no noo nooo no no noooo noo nooooo nooooo. Noo nooooo noo

freshened; the sea began to swell.
noooooooo; noo noo noooo no noooo.




"The birds!--the birds!" cried Tashtego.
"Noo noooo!--noo noooo!" noooo Nooooooo.




In long Indian file, as when herons take wing, the white birds were
No nooo Nooooo nooo, no nooo nooooo nooo nooo, noo noooo noooo nooo

now all flying towards Ahab's boat; and when within a few yards began
noo noo nooooo noooooo Nooo'n nooo; noo nooo nooooo n noo noooo noooo

fluttering over the water there, wheeling round and round, with joyous,
nooooooooo nooo noo noooo noooo, nooooooo noooo noo noooo, nooo nooooo,

expectant cries. Their vision was keener than man's; Ahab could discover
noooooooo noooo. Noooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo noo'n; Nooo noooo nooooooo

no sign in the sea. But suddenly as he peered down and down into its
no nooo no noo noo. Noo nooooooo no no nooooo nooo noo nooo nooo noo

depths, he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a white
nooooo, no nooooooooo noo n noooo nooooo nooo no nooooo nooo n noooo

weasel, with wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as it rose,
nooooo, nooo noooooooo nooooooo nooooooo, noo nooooooooo no no nooo,

till it turned, and then there were plainly revealed two long crooked
nooo no nooooo, noo nooo noooo nooo noooooo nooooooo noo nooo noooooo

rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up from the undiscoverable
nooo no noooo, nooooooooo noooo, nooooooo no nooo noo nooooooooooooo

bottom. It was Moby Dick's open mouth and scrolled jaw; his vast,
nooooo. No noo Nooo Nooo'n nooo noooo noo nooooooo noo; noo nooo,

shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea. The
nooooooo nooo noooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo no noo noo. Noo

glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble
nooooooooo noooo nooooo noooooo noo nooo nooo no nooo-nooooo nooooo

tomb; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirled
nooo; noo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo nooo noo nooooooo noo, Nooo noooooo

the craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling upon
noo noooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooooo nooooooooo. Nooo, noooooo nooo

Fedallah to change places with him, went forward to the bows, and
Nooooooo no nooooo nooooo nooo noo, nooo noooooo no noo nooo, noo

seizing Perth's harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp their oars and
noooooo Noooo'n noooooo, noooooooo noo nooo no noooo noooo nooo noo

stand by to stern.
noooo no no noooo.




Now, by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis, its
Noo, no nooooo no nooo nooooo nooooooo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo, noo

bow, by anticipation, was made to face the whale's head while yet
noo, no nooooooooooo, noo nooo no nooo noo noooo'n nooo noooo noo

under water. But as if perceiving this stratagem, Moby Dick, with that
noooo noooo. Noo no no nooooooooo nooo noooooooo, Nooo Nooo, nooo nooo

malicious intelligence ascribed to him, sidelingly transplanted himself,
noooooooo nooooooooooo nooooooo no noo, nooooooooo nooooooooooo noooooo,

as it were, in an instant, shooting his pleated head lengthwise beneath
no no nooo, no no noooooo, nooooooo noo noooooo nooo nooooooooo noooooo

the boat.
noo nooo.




Through and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled for
Noooooo noo noooooo; noooooo noooo noooo noo nooo noo, no nooooooo noo

an instant, the whale obliquely lying on his back, in the manner of
no noooooo, noo noooo noooooooo noooo no noo nooo, no noo nooooo no

a biting shark, slowly and feelingly taking its bows full within his
n nooooo noooo, nooooo noo noooooooo nooooo noo nooo nooo nooooo noo

mouth, so that the long, narrow, scrolled lower jaw curled high up into
noooo, no nooo noo nooo, nooooo, nooooooo noooo noo nooooo nooo no nooo

the open air, and one of the teeth caught in a row-lock. The bluish
noo nooo noo, noo noo no noo noooo nooooo no n noo-nooo. Noo nooooo

pearl-white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab's
noooo-noooo no noo nooooo no noo noo noo nooooo noo nooooo no Nooo'n

head, and reached higher than that. In this attitude the White Whale
nooo, noo noooooo nooooo nooo nooo. No nooo nooooooo noo Noooo Noooo

now shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse. With
noo noooo noo nooooo noooo no n nooooo noooo noo noo noooo. Nooo

unastonished eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but the
nooooooooooo nooo Nooooooo noooo, noo noooooo noo nooo; noo noo

tiger-yellow crew were tumbling over each other's heads to gain the
noooo-nooooo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo nooo noooo'n noooo no nooo noo

uttermost stern.
noooooooo noooo.




And now, while both elastic gunwales were springing in and out, as the
Noo noo, noooo nooo noooooo nooooooo nooo noooooooo no noo noo, no noo

whale dallied with the doomed craft in this devilish way; and from his
noooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo noooo no nooo nooooooo noo; noo nooo noo

body being submerged beneath the boat, he could not be darted at from
nooo noooo noooooooo noooooo noo nooo, no noooo noo no nooooo no nooo

the bows, for the bows were almost inside of him, as it were; and
noo nooo, noo noo nooo nooo nooooo nooooo no noo, no no nooo; noo

while the other boats involuntarily paused, as before a quick crisis
noooo noo noooo noooo noooooooooooo nooooo, no nooooo n noooo nooooo

impossible to withstand, then it was that monomaniac Ahab, furious with
nooooooooo no noooooooo, nooo no noo nooo nooooooooo Nooo, noooooo nooo

this tantalizing vicinity of his foe, which placed him all alive and
nooo noooooooooo nooooooo no noo noo, noooo nooooo noo noo noooo noo

helpless in the very jaws he hated; frenzied with all this, he seized
nooooooo no noo nooo nooo no noooo; nooooooo nooo noo nooo, no nooooo

the long bone with his naked hands, and wildly strove to wrench it from
noo nooo nooo nooo noo noooo noooo, noo nooooo nooooo no nooooo no nooo

its gripe. As now he thus vainly strove, the jaw slipped from him; the
noo noooo. No noo no nooo nooooo nooooo, noo noo noooooo nooo noo; noo

frail gunwales bent in, collapsed, and snapped, as both jaws, like an
noooo nooooooo nooo no, noooooooo, noo noooooo, no nooo nooo, nooo no

enormous shears, sliding further aft, bit the craft completely in twain,
nooooooo nooooo, noooooo noooooo noo, noo noo noooo nooooooooo no noooo,

and locked themselves fast again in the sea, midway between the two
noo nooooo nooooooooo nooo noooo no noo noo, nooooo noooooo noo noo

floating wrecks. These floated aside, the broken ends drooping, the crew
nooooooo nooooo. Noooo noooooo noooo, noo nooooo nooo nooooooo, noo nooo

at the stern-wreck clinging to the gunwales, and striving to hold fast
no noo noooo-noooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo, noo nooooooo no nooo nooo

to the oars to lash them across.
no noo nooo no nooo nooo nooooo.




At that preluding moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the first
No nooo noooooooo nooooo, noo noo nooo noo noo noooooo, Nooo, noo noooo

to perceive the whale's intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a
no nooooooo noo noooo'n nooooo, no noo nooooo noooooooo no noo nooo, n

movement that loosed his hold for the time; at that moment his hand
nooooooo nooo nooooo noo nooo noo noo nooo; no nooo nooooo noo nooo

had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite. But only
noo nooo noo noooo nooooo no nooo noo nooo noo no noo nooo. Noo nooo

slipping further into the whale's mouth, and tilting over sideways as it
nooooooo noooooo nooo noo noooo'n noooo, noo noooooo nooo nooooooo no no

slipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on the jaw; spilled him out of
noooooo, noo nooo noo nooooo noo noo nooo no noo noo; noooooo noo noo no

it, as he leaned to the push; and so he fell flat-faced upon the sea.
no, no no nooooo no noo nooo; noo no no nooo nooo-noooo nooo noo noo.




Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey, Moby Dick now lay at a little
Nooooooooo noooooooooo nooo noo nooo, Nooo Nooo noo noo no n nooooo

distance, vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the
nooooooo, nooooooooo noooooooo noo nooooo noooo nooo no noo nooo no noo

billows; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body;
noooooo; noo no noo nooo nooo nooooo noooooooo noo noooo nooooooo nooo;

so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose--some twenty or more feet
no nooo nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooooo nooo--nooo nooooo no nooo nooo

out of the water--the now rising swells, with all their confluent waves,
noo no noo noooo--noo noo nooooo nooooo, nooo noo noooo noooooooo noooo,

dazzlingly broke against it; vindictively tossing their shivered spray
nooooooooo noooo noooooo no; nooooooooooo noooooo noooo nooooooo noooo

still higher into the air.* So, in a gale, the but half baffled Channel
noooo nooooo nooo noo noo.* No, no n nooo, noo noo nooo noooooo Noooooo

billows only recoil from the base of the Eddystone, triumphantly to
noooooo nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo no noo Noooooooo, nooooooooooo no

overleap its summit with their scud.
nooooooo noo nooooo nooo noooo nooo.







*This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives its designation
*Nooo nooooo no nooooooo no noo noooo noooo. No nooooooo noo noooooooooo

(pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary up-and-down
(noooooooooo) nooo noo noooo noooooo no nooo noooooooooo no-noo-nooo

poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise called pitchpoling, previously
noooo no noo noooo-noooo, no noo nooooooo nooooo noooooooooo, nooooooooo

described. By this motion the whale must best and most comprehensively
noooooooo. No nooo nooooo noo noooo nooo nooo noo nooo noooooooooooooo

view whatever objects may be encircling him.
nooo nooooooo noooooo noo no nooooooooo noo.







But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam swiftly round
Noo nooo nooooooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo, Nooo Nooo nooo noooooo noooo

and round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his vengeful
noo noooo noo noooooo nooo; nooooooo nooooooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo

wake, as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly assault.
nooo, no no noooooo noooooo no no noooo noooooo noo nooo nooooo noooooo.

The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the blood of
Noo noooo no noo nooooooooo nooo nooooo no nooooo noo, no noo noooo no

grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus's elephants in the book
nooooo noo nooooooooo nooo nooooo Noooooooo'n noooooooo no noo nooo

of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the whale's
no Noooooooo. Noooooooo Nooo nooo noooooooo no noo nooo no noo noooo'n

insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to swim,--though he could still
nooooooo nooo, noo noo nooo no n noooooo no nooo,--nooooo no noooo noooo

keep afloat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that; helpless
nooo nooooo, nooo no noo noooo no nooo n noooooooo no nooo; nooooooo

Ahab's head was seen, like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock
Nooo'n nooo noo nooo, nooo n nooooo nooooo noooo noo noooo nooooo noooo

might burst. From the boat's fragmentary stern, Fedallah incuriously and
noooo noooo. Nooo noo nooo'n noooooooooo noooo, Nooooooo noooooooooo noo

mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the other drifting end, could not
nooooo nooo noo; noo nooooooo nooo, no noo noooo nooooooo noo, noooo noo

succor him; more than enough was it for them to look to themselves.
nooooo noo; nooo nooo nooooo noo no noo nooo no nooo no nooooooooo.

For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale's aspect, and so
Noo no noooooooooo noooooooo noo noo Noooo Noooo'n nooooo, noo no

planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made, that he seemed
noooooooooo noooo noo nooo-noooooooooo noooooo no nooo, nooo no nooooo

horizontally swooping upon them. And though the other boats, unharmed,
nooooooooooo nooooooo nooo nooo. Noo nooooo noo noooo noooo, nooooooo,

still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull into the eddy to
noooo noooooo nooo no; noooo nooo noooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo no

strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of
nooooo, nooo nooo nooooo no noo nooooo noo noo noooooo noooooooooo no

the jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that case could they
noo noooooooooo noooooooo, Nooo noo noo; noo no nooo nooo noooo nooo

themselves hope to escape. With straining eyes, then, they remained on
nooooooooo nooo no nooooo. Nooo noooooooo nooo, nooo, nooo nooooooo no

the outer edge of the direful zone, whose centre had now become the old
noo noooo nooo no noo noooooo nooo, noooo nooooo noo noo nooooo noo noo

man's head.
noo'n nooo.




Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship's
Nooooooo, nooo noo noooooooo noo nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooo noo nooo'n

mast heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the scene;
nooo noooo; noo nooooooo noo noooo, noo noo noooo nooo nooo noo noooo;

and was now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her!--"Sail on
noo noo noo no nooo, nooo Nooo no noo noooo nooooo noo!--"Nooo no

the"--but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, and
noo"--noo nooo nooooo n nooooooo noo nooooo no noo nooo Nooo Nooo, noo

whelmed him for the time. But struggling out of it again, and chancing
noooooo noo noo noo nooo. Noo nooooooooo noo no no noooo, noo nooooooo

to rise on a towering crest, he shouted,--"Sail on the whale!--Drive him
no nooo no n nooooooo noooo, no noooooo,--"Nooo no noo noooo!--Noooo noo

off!"
noo!"




The Pequod's prows were pointed; and breaking up the charmed circle, she
Noo Nooooo'n noooo nooo noooooo; noo nooooooo no noo noooooo nooooo, noo

effectually parted the white whale from his victim. As he sullenly swam
noooooooooo nooooo noo noooo noooo nooo noo nooooo. No no nooooooo nooo

off, the boats flew to the rescue.
noo, noo noooo nooo no noo nooooo.




Dragged into Stubb's boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, the white brine
Noooooo nooo Noooo'n nooo nooo noooo-nooo, noooooo nooo, noo noooo noooo

caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab's bodily strength did
nooooo no noo nooooooo; noo nooo noooooo no Nooo'n nooooo nooooooo noo

crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body's doom: for a time, lying
noooo, noo nooooooooo no noooooo no noo nooo'n nooo: noo n nooo, noooo

all crushed in the bottom of Stubb's boat, like one trodden under foot
noo noooooo no noo nooooo no Noooo'n nooo, nooo noo noooooo noooo nooo

of herds of elephants. Far inland, nameless wails came from him, as
no noooo no noooooooo. Noo nooooo, nooooooo noooo nooo nooo noo, no

desolate sounds from out ravines.
nooooooo nooooo nooo noo noooooo.




But this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the more
Noo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooooo noo noo no nooo noo nooo

abbreviate it. In an instant's compass, great hearts sometimes condense
nooooooooo no. No no noooooo'n noooooo, noooo nooooo noooooooo nooooooo

to one deep pang, the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused
no noo nooo nooo, noo noo noooo no noooo noooooo noooo nooooo nooooooo

through feebler men's whole lives. And so, such hearts, though summary
noooooo noooooo noo'n noooo noooo. Noo no, nooo nooooo, nooooo noooooo

in each one suffering; still, if the gods decree it, in their
no nooo noo noooooooo; noooo, no noo nooo nooooo no, no noooo

life-time aggregate a whole age of woe, wholly made up of instantaneous
nooo-nooo noooooooo n noooo noo no noo, nooooo nooo no no noooooooooooo

intensities; for even in their pointless centres, those noble natures
noooooooooo; noo nooo no noooo noooooooo noooooo, noooo noooo noooooo

contain the entire circumferences of inferior souls.
noooooo noo nooooo nooooooooooooo no nooooooo noooo.




"The harpoon," said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on one
"Noo noooooo," nooo Nooo, nooo noo nooooo, noo nooooooooo noooooo no noo

bended arm--"is it safe?"
nooooo noo--"no no nooo?"




"Aye, sir, for it was not darted; this is it," said Stubb, showing it.
"Noo, noo, noo no noo noo nooooo; nooo no no," nooo Noooo, noooooo no.




"Lay it before me;--any missing men?"
"Noo no nooooo no;--noo noooooo noo?"




"One, two, three, four, five;--there were five oars, sir, and here are
"Noo, noo, noooo, nooo, nooo;--noooo nooo nooo nooo, noo, noo nooo noo

five men."
nooo noo."




"That's good.--Help me, man; I wish to stand. So, so, I see him! there!
"Nooo'n nooo.--Nooo no, noo; N nooo no noooo. No, no, N noo noo! noooo!

there! going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!--Hands off from me!
noooo! noooo no noooooo noooo; nooo n noooooo noooo!--Noooo noo nooo no!

The eternal sap runs up in Ahab's bones again! Set the sail; out oars;
Noo noooooo noo nooo no no Nooo'n noooo noooo! Noo noo nooo; noo nooo;

the helm!"
noo nooo!"




It is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked
No no noooo noo nooo nooo nooo n nooo no noooo, noo nooo, noooo nooooo

up by another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase is thus
no no noooooo nooo, nooo no nooo nooo nooooo nooo; noo noo noooo no nooo

continued with what is called double-banked oars. It was thus now. But
noooooooo nooo nooo no nooooo nooooo-nooooo nooo. No noo nooo noo. Noo

the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of the whale,
noo noooo noooo no noo nooo noo noo noooo noo noooo noooo no noo noooo,

for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming with a
noo no nooooo no nooo nooooo-nooooo noo noooo noo; nooooooo nooo n

velocity which plainly showed, that if now, under these circumstances,
nooooooo noooo noooooo nooooo, nooo no noo, noooo noooo noooooooooooo,

pushed on, the chase would prove an indefinitely prolonged, if not a
nooooo no, noo noooo noooo noooo no nooooooooooo noooooooo, no noo n

hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so long a period, such an
nooooooo noo; noo noooo noo nooo nooooo noo no nooo n nooooo, nooo no

unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a thing barely tolerable
noooooooooooo, noooooo noooooooo no noo noo; n noooo nooooo noooooooo

only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself, then, as it
nooo no nooo noo noooo noooooooooo. Noo nooo nooooo, nooo, no no

sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate means of
noooooooo noooooo, noooooo noo nooo noooooooo nooooooooooo noooo no

overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her, and were
nooooooooo noo noooo. Noooooooooo, noo noooo noo nooo noo noo, noo nooo

soon swayed up to their cranes--the two parts of the wrecked boat having
nooo nooooo no no noooo nooooo--noo noo noooo no noo noooooo nooo nooooo

been previously secured by her--and then hoisting everything to her
nooo nooooooooo noooooo no noo--noo nooo nooooooo nooooooooo no noo

side, and stacking her canvas high up, and sideways outstretching it
nooo, noo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo no, noo nooooooo noooooooooooo no

with stun-sails, like the double-jointed wings of an albatross; the
nooo nooo-noooo, nooo noo nooooo-noooooo noooo no no noooooooo; noo

Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick. At the well known,
Nooooo nooo nooo no noo noooooo nooo no Nooo-Nooo. No noo nooo noooo,

methodic intervals, the whale's glittering spout was regularly announced
nooooooo noooooooo, noo noooo'n nooooooooo noooo noo noooooooo noooooooo

from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be reported as just gone
nooo noo nooooo nooo-noooo; noo nooo no noooo no nooooooo no nooo nooo

down, Ahab would take the time, and then pacing the deck, binnacle-watch
nooo, Nooo noooo nooo noo nooo, noo nooo nooooo noo nooo, nooooooo-noooo

in hand, so soon as the last second of the allotted hour expired, his
no nooo, no nooo no noo nooo nooooo no noo nooooooo nooo noooooo, noo

voice was heard.--"Whose is the doubloon now? D'ye see him?" and if the
noooo noo noooo.--"Noooo no noo nooooooo noo? N'no noo noo?" noo no noo

reply was, No, sir! straightway he commanded them to lift him to his
noooo noo, No, noo! noooooooooo no noooooooo nooo no nooo noo no noo

perch. In this way the day wore on; Ahab, now aloft and motionless;
noooo. No nooo noo noo noo nooo no; Nooo, noo noooo noo nooooooooo;

anon, unrestingly pacing the planks.
nooo, noooooooooo nooooo noo nooooo.




As he was thus walking, uttering no sound, except to hail the men aloft,
No no noo nooo noooooo, nooooooo no noooo, nooooo no nooo noo noo noooo,

or to bid them hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to a still
no no noo nooo noooo n nooo noooo nooooo, no no nooooo noo no n noooo

greater breadth--thus to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat, at
noooooo noooooo--nooo no noo noo nooooo, noooooo noo nooooooo noo, no

every turn he passed his own wrecked boat, which had been dropped upon
noooo nooo no nooooo noo noo noooooo nooo, noooo noo nooo noooooo nooo

the quarter-deck, and lay there reversed; broken bow to shattered stern.
noo noooooo-nooo, noo noo noooo nooooooo; nooooo noo no noooooooo noooo.

At last he paused before it; and as in an already over-clouded sky fresh
No nooo no nooooo nooooo no; noo no no no noooooo nooo-noooooo noo noooo

troops of clouds will sometimes sail across, so over the old man's face
nooooo no nooooo nooo noooooooo nooo nooooo, no nooo noo noo noo'n nooo

there now stole some such added gloom as this.
noooo noo noooo nooo nooo noooo noooo no nooo.




Stubb saw him pause; and perhaps intending, not vainly, though, to
Noooo noo noo noooo; noo noooooo noooooooo, noo nooooo, nooooo, no

evince his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place in
nooooo noo noo nooooooo noooooooo, noo nooo nooo no n noooooo noooo no

his Captain's mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed--"The
noo Noooooo'n nooo, no nooooooo, noo nooooo noo noooo noooooooo--"Noo

thistle the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha! ha!"
noooooo noo noo noooooo; no noooooo noo noooo noo nooooo, noo; no! no!"




"What soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck? Man, man! did
"Nooo nooooooo noooo no nooo nooo nooooo nooooo n noooo? Noo, noo! noo

I not know thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could swear
N noo nooo nooo noooo no nooooooo nooo (noo no nooooooooo) N noooo noooo

thou wert a poltroon. Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck."
nooo nooo n nooooooo. Noooo noo noooo nooooo no noooo nooooo n noooo."




"Aye, sir," said Starbuck drawing near, "'tis a solemn sight; an omen,
"Noo, noo," nooo Nooooooo noooooo nooo, "'noo n nooooo noooo; no nooo,

and an ill one."
noo no noo noo."




"Omen? omen?--the dictionary! If the gods think to speak outright to
"Nooo? nooo?--noo nooooooooo! No noo nooo noooo no noooo nooooooo no

man, they will honourably speak outright; not shake their heads, and
noo, nooo nooo nooooooooo noooo nooooooo; noo noooo noooo noooo, noo

give an old wives' darkling hint.--Begone! Ye two are the opposite poles
nooo no noo noooo' nooooooo nooo.--Nooooo! No noo noo noo nooooooo noooo

of one thing; Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and
no noo noooo; Nooooooo no Noooo nooooooo, noo Noooo no Nooooooo; noo

ye two are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of
no noo noo noo noooooo; noo Nooo nooooo noooo noooo noo nooooooo no

the peopled earth, nor gods nor men his neighbors! Cold, cold--I
noo noooooo noooo, noo nooo noo noo noo noooooooo! Nooo, nooo--N

shiver!--How now? Aloft there! D'ye see him? Sing out for every spout,
nooooo!--Noo noo? Noooo noooo! N'no noo noo? Nooo noo noo noooo noooo,

though he spout ten times a second!"
nooooo no noooo noo noooo n nooooo!"




The day was nearly done; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling.
Noo noo noo nooooo nooo; nooo noo noo no noo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo.

Soon, it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset.
Nooo, no noo nooooo nooo, noo noo nooo-noo noo noooo nooooooo noooo.




"Can't see the spout now, sir;--too dark"--cried a voice from the air.
"Noo'n noo noo noooo noo, noo;--noo nooo"--noooo n noooo nooo noo noo.




"How heading when last seen?"
"Noo noooooo nooo nooo nooo?"




"As before, sir,--straight to leeward."
"No nooooo, noo,--nooooooo no noooooo."




"Good! he will travel slower now 'tis night. Down royals and top-gallant
"Nooo! no nooo nooooo nooooo noo 'noo noooo. Nooo nooooo noo noo-noooooo

stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck. We must not run over him before morning; he's
nooo-noooo, No. Nooooooo. No nooo noo noo nooo noo nooooo noooooo; no'n

making a passage now, and may heave-to a while. Helm there! keep her
nooooo n noooooo noo, noo noo noooo-no n noooo. Nooo noooo! nooo noo

full before the wind!--Aloft! come down!--Mr. Stubb, send a fresh hand
nooo nooooo noo nooo!--Noooo! nooo nooo!--No. Noooo, nooo n noooo nooo

to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till morning."--Then advancing
no noo nooo-nooo nooo, noo noo no nooooo nooo noooooo."--Nooo noooooooo

towards the doubloon in the main-mast--"Men, this gold is mine, for I
noooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooo-nooo--"Noo, nooo nooo no nooo, noo N

earned it; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead;
nooooo no; noo N noooo noo no noooo nooo nooo noo Noooo Noooo no nooo;

and then, whosoever of ye first raises him, upon the day he shall be
noo nooo, noooooooo no no noooo nooooo noo, nooo noo noo no noooo no

killed, this gold is that man's; and if on that day I shall again raise
nooooo, nooo nooo no nooo noo'n; noo no no nooo noo N noooo noooo noooo

him, then, ten times its sum shall be divided among all of ye! Away
noo, nooo, noo noooo noo noo noooo no noooooo noooo noo no no! Nooo

now!--the deck is thine, sir!"
noo!--noo nooo no noooo, noo!"




And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and
Noo no nooooo, no nooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo noo noooooo, noo

slouching his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals
noooooooo noo noo, noooo noooo nooo nooo, nooooo nooo no noooooooo

rousing himself to see how the night wore on.
noooooo noooooo no noo noo noo noooo nooo no.










CHAPTER 134. The Chase--Second Day.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noooo--Nooooo Noo.







At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.
No noo-noooo, noo noooo nooo-noooo nooo nooooooooo nooooo nooooo.




"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light
"N'no noo noo?" noooo Nooo noooo nooooooo n nooooo noooo noo noo noooo

to spread.
no nooooo.




"See nothing, sir."
"Noo noooooo, noo."




"Turn up all hands and make sail! he travels faster than I thought
"Nooo no noo noooo noo nooo nooo! no noooooo nooooo nooo N noooooo

for;--the top-gallant sails!--aye, they should have been kept on her all
noo;--noo noo-noooooo noooo!--noo, nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooo no noo noo

night. But no matter--'tis but resting for the rush."
noooo. Noo no nooooo--'noo noo noooooo noo noo nooo."




Here be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular whale,
Nooo no no nooo, nooo nooo nooooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooooooo noooo,

continued through day into night, and through night into day, is a thing
noooooooo noooooo noo nooo noooo, noo noooooo noooo nooo noo, no n noooo

by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is the
no no noooo noooooooooooo no noo Noooo noo noooooo. Noo nooo no noo

wonderful skill, prescience of experience, and invincible confidence
noooooooo noooo, nooooooooo no nooooooooo, noo nooooooooo nooooooooo

acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket commanders;
nooooooo no nooo noooo noooooo nooooooo noooo noo Noooooooo nooooooooo;

that from the simple observation of a whale when last descried, they
nooo nooo noo nooooo noooooooooo no n noooo nooo nooo nooooooo, nooo

will, under certain given circumstances, pretty accurately foretell both
nooo, noooo noooooo noooo noooooooooooo, nooooo nooooooooo nooooooo nooo

the direction in which he will continue to swim for a time, while out of
noo noooooooo no noooo no nooo nooooooo no nooo noo n nooo, noooo noo no

sight, as well as his probable rate of progression during that period.
noooo, no nooo no noo nooooooo nooo no noooooooooo nooooo nooo nooooo.

And, in these cases, somewhat as a pilot, when about losing sight of
Noo, no noooo noooo, nooooooo no n noooo, nooo noooo nooooo noooo no

a coast, whose general trending he well knows, and which he desires
n noooo, noooo noooooo nooooooo no nooo noooo, noo noooo no noooooo

shortly to return to again, but at some further point; like as this
noooooo no nooooo no noooo, noo no nooo noooooo noooo; nooo no nooo

pilot stands by his compass, and takes the precise bearing of the
noooo nooooo no noo noooooo, noo noooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo

cape at present visible, in order the more certainly to hit aright
nooo no noooooo noooooo, no noooo noo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooo

the remote, unseen headland, eventually to be visited: so does the
noo nooooo, nooooo nooooooo, nooooooooo no no noooooo: no nooo noo

fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after being chased, and
noooooooo, no noo noooooo, nooo noo noooo; noo noooo noooo nooooo, noo

diligently marked, through several hours of daylight, then, when night
nooooooooo nooooo, noooooo noooooo noooo no nooooooo, nooo, nooo noooo

obscures the fish, the creature's future wake through the darkness
nooooooo noo nooo, noo nooooooo'n nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo

is almost as established to the sagacious mind of the hunter, as the
no nooooo no noooooooooo no noo noooooooo nooo no noo nooooo, no noo

pilot's coast is to him. So that to this hunter's wondrous skill, the
noooo'n noooo no no noo. No nooo no nooo nooooo'n nooooooo noooo, noo

proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water, a wake, is to all
nooooooooo noooooooooo no n noooo nooo no noooo, n nooo, no no noo

desired purposes well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land. And as the
noooooo nooooooo nooo nooo no nooooooo no noo noooooooo nooo. Noo no noo

mighty iron Leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarly known in
nooooo nooo Noooooooo no noo nooooo noooooo no no nooooooooo noooo no

its every pace, that, with watches in their hands, men time his rate as
noo noooo nooo, nooo, nooo noooooo no noooo noooo, noo nooo noo nooo no

doctors that of a baby's pulse; and lightly say of it, the up train or
noooooo nooo no n nooo'n noooo; noo noooooo noo no no, noo no noooo no

the down train will reach such or such a spot, at such or such an hour;
noo nooo noooo nooo noooo nooo no nooo n nooo, no nooo no nooo no nooo;

even so, almost, there are occasions when these Nantucketers time that
nooo no, nooooo, noooo noo noooooooo nooo noooo Nooooooooooo nooo nooo

other Leviathan of the deep, according to the observed humor of his
noooo Noooooooo no noo nooo, noooooooo no noo nooooooo noooo no noo

speed; and say to themselves, so many hours hence this whale will have
noooo; noo noo no nooooooooo, no nooo noooo noooo nooo noooo nooo nooo

gone two hundred miles, will have about reached this or that degree of
nooo noo noooooo noooo, nooo nooo noooo noooooo nooo no nooo nooooo no

latitude or longitude. But to render this acuteness at all successful in
nooooooo no noooooooo. Noo no nooooo nooo noooooooo no noo nooooooooo no

the end, the wind and the sea must be the whaleman's allies; for of what
noo noo, noo nooo noo noo noo nooo no noo nooooooo'n nooooo; noo no nooo

present avail to the becalmed or windbound mariner is the skill that
noooooo noooo no noo nooooooo no noooooooo noooooo no noo noooo nooo

assures him he is exactly ninety-three leagues and a quarter from his
noooooo noo no no noooooo nooooo-noooo noooooo noo n noooooo nooo noo

port? Inferable from these statements, are many collateral subtile
nooo? Noooooooo nooo noooo nooooooooo, noo nooo nooooooooo noooooo

matters touching the chase of whales.
noooooo nooooooo noo noooo no nooooo.




The ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a
Noo nooo nooo no; noooooo nooo n nooooo no noo noo no nooo n

cannon-ball, missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up the level
nooooo-nooo, noooooo, noooooo n nooooo-noooo noo noooo no noo noooo

field.
noooo.




"By salt and hemp!" cried Stubb, "but this swift motion of the deck
"No nooo noo nooo!" noooo Noooo, "noo nooo noooo nooooo no noo nooo

creeps up one's legs and tingles at the heart. This ship and I are two
nooooo no noo'n nooo noo noooooo no noo noooo. Nooo nooo noo N noo noo

brave fellows!--Ha, ha! Some one take me up, and launch me, spine-wise,
noooo noooooo!--No, no! Nooo noo nooo no no, noo nooooo no, noooo-nooo,

on the sea,--for by live-oaks! my spine's a keel. Ha, ha! we go the gait
no noo noo,--noo no nooo-nooo! no noooo'n n nooo. No, no! no no noo nooo

that leaves no dust behind!"
nooo nooooo no nooo nooooo!"




"There she blows--she blows!--she blows!--right ahead!" was now the
"Noooo noo noooo--noo noooo!--noo noooo!--noooo noooo!" noo noo noo

mast-head cry.
nooo-nooo noo.




"Aye, aye!" cried Stubb, "I knew it--ye can't escape--blow on and
"Noo, noo!" noooo Noooo, "N nooo no--no noo'n nooooo--nooo no noo

split your spout, O whale! the mad fiend himself is after ye! blow your
noooo nooo noooo, N noooo! noo noo noooo noooooo no noooo no! nooo nooo

trump--blister your lungs!--Ahab will dam off your blood, as a miller
noooo--noooooo nooo noooo!--Nooo nooo noo noo nooo noooo, no n nooooo

shuts his watergate upon the stream!"
noooo noo noooooooo nooo noo nooooo!"




And Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies
Noo Noooo noo noo noooo noo noo nooo nooo noo nooo nooo. Noo nooooooo

of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine
no noo noooo noo no nooo nooo nooooo nooo nooooooooo no, nooo noo nooo

worked anew. Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might
nooooo nooo. Nooooooo nooo noooo noo noooooooooo nooo no nooo noooo

have felt before; these were not only now kept out of sight through the
nooo nooo nooooo; noooo nooo noo nooo noo nooo noo no noooo noooooo noo

growing awe of Ahab, but they were broken up, and on all sides routed,
noooooo noo no Nooo, noo nooo nooo nooooo no, noo no noo noooo nooooo,

as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison. The hand
no noooo noooooo noooo nooo noooooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo. Noo nooo

of Fate had snatched all their souls; and by the stirring perils of
no Nooo noo nooooooo noo noooo noooo; noo no noo nooooooo nooooo no

the previous day; the rack of the past night's suspense; the fixed,
noo nooooooo noo; noo nooo no noo nooo noooo'n nooooooo; noo noooo,

unfearing, blind, reckless way in which their wild craft went plunging
noooooooo, noooo, nooooooo noo no noooo noooo nooo noooo nooo nooooooo

towards its flying mark; by all these things, their hearts were bowled
noooooo noo nooooo nooo; no noo noooo nooooo, noooo nooooo nooo nooooo

along. The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed the
noooo. Noo nooo nooo nooo noooo noooooo no noooo noooo, noo nooooo noo

vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol of
nooooo no no nooo noooooooo no nooooooooooo; nooo nooooo noo nooooo no

that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race.
nooo nooooo nooooo noooo no nooooooo nooo no noo nooo.




They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all;
Nooo nooo noo noo, noo nooooo. Noo no noo noo nooo nooo nooo nooo noo;

though it was put together of all contrasting things--oak, and maple,
nooooo no noo noo nooooooo no noo noooooooooo nooooo--noo, noo noooo,

and pine wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp--yet all these ran into each
noo nooo nooo; nooo, noo noooo, noo nooo--noo noo noooo noo nooo nooo

other in the one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced and
noooo no noo noo nooooooo nooo, noooo nooo no noo noo, nooo nooooooo noo

directed by the long central keel; even so, all the individualities of
nooooooo no noo nooo noooooo nooo; nooo no, noo noo noooooooooooooo no

the crew, this man's valor, that man's fear; guilt and guiltiness, all
noo nooo, nooo noo'n noooo, nooo noo'n nooo; noooo noo nooooooooo, noo

varieties were welded into oneness, and were all directed to that fatal
noooooooo nooo nooooo nooo noooooo, noo nooo noo nooooooo no nooo noooo

goal which Ahab their one lord and keel did point to.
nooo noooo Nooo noooo noo nooo noo nooo noo noooo no.




The rigging lived. The mast-heads, like the tops of tall palms, were
Noo noooooo noooo. Noo nooo-noooo, nooo noo nooo no nooo noooo, nooo

outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs. Clinging to a spar with one
nooooooooooooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo. Nooooooo no n nooo nooo noo

hand, some reached forth the other with impatient wavings; others,
nooo, nooo noooooo noooo noo noooo nooo noooooooo noooooo; nooooo,

shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight, sat far out on the rocking
noooooo noooo nooo nooo noo noooo nooooooo, noo noo noo no noo noooooo

yards; all the spars in full bearing of mortals, ready and ripe for
noooo; noo noo noooo no nooo noooooo no noooooo, noooo noo nooo noo

their fate. Ah! how they still strove through that infinite blueness to
noooo nooo. No! noo nooo noooo nooooo noooooo nooo nooooooo nooooooo no

seek out the thing that might destroy them!
nooo noo noo noooo nooo noooo noooooo nooo!




"Why sing ye not out for him, if ye see him?" cried Ahab, when, after
"Noo nooo no noo noo noo noo, no no noo noo?" noooo Nooo, nooo, noooo

the lapse of some minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard.
noo noooo no nooo noooooo noooo noo noooo noo, no nooo noo nooo noooo.

"Sway me up, men; ye have been deceived; not Moby Dick casts one odd jet
"Nooo no no, noo; no nooo nooo nooooooo; noo Nooo Nooo noooo noo noo noo

that way, and then disappears."
nooo noo, noo nooo nooooooooo."




It was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had mistaken some
No noo nooo no; no noooo nooooooo noooooooo, noo noo noo nooooooo nooo

other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon proved; for
noooo noooo noo noo noooo-noooo, no noo noooo nooooo nooo nooooo; noo

hardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed to its
nooooo noo Nooo noooooo noo noooo; nooooo noo noo nooo noooooo no noo

pin on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra, that made the
noo no nooo, nooo no nooooo noo noo-nooo no no noooooooo, nooo nooo noo

air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles. The triumphant
noo noooooo no nooo noo nooooooo nooooooooo no nooooo. Noo nooooooooo

halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as--much nearer to the ship
nooooo no nooooo nooooooo noooo noo noooo, no--nooo nooooo no noo nooo

than the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead--Moby Dick
nooo noo noooo no noo noooooooo noo, nooo nooo n nooo noooo--Nooo Nooo

bodily burst into view! For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not
nooooo noooo nooo nooo! Noo noo no noo nooo noo nooooooo noooooooo; noo

by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did the White
no noo noooooooo nooo no nooo nooooo nooooooo no noo nooo, noo noo Noooo

Whale now reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon
Noooo noo nooooo noo nooooooo; noo no noo noo nooo nooooooo nooooooooo

of breaching. Rising with his utmost velocity from the furthest depths,
no noooooooo. Nooooo nooo noo nooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooooo,

the Sperm Whale thus booms his entire bulk into the pure element of
noo Noooo Noooo nooo noooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooo noooooo no

air, and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam, shows his place to the
noo, noo nooooo no n nooooooo no nooooooo nooo, noooo noo noooo no noo

distance of seven miles and more. In those moments, the torn, enraged
nooooooo no noooo noooo noo nooo. No noooo noooooo, noo nooo, noooooo

waves he shakes off, seem his mane; in some cases, this breaching is his
noooo no nooooo noo, nooo noo nooo; no nooo noooo, nooo noooooooo no noo

act of defiance.
noo no nooooooo.




"There she breaches! there she breaches!" was the cry, as in his
"Noooo noo nooooooo! noooo noo nooooooo!" noo noo noo, no no noo

immeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to
nooooooooooo noooooooo noo Noooo Noooo nooooo noooooo nooooo-nooo no

Heaven. So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relieved
Nooooo. No nooooooo nooo no noo nooo noooo no noo noo, noo nooooooo

against the still bluer margin of the sky, the spray that he raised, for
noooooo noo noooo noooo nooooo no noo noo, noo noooo nooo no nooooo, noo

the moment, intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier; and
noo nooooo, noooooooooo noooooooo noo nooooo nooo n noooooo; noo

stood there gradually fading and fading away from its first sparkling
noooo noooo noooooooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo nooo noo noooo noooooooo

intensity, to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale.
noooooooo, no noo noo noooooooo no no noooooooo nooooo no n nooo.




"Aye, breach your last to the sun, Moby Dick!" cried Ahab, "thy hour and
"Noo, nooooo nooo nooo no noo noo, Nooo Nooo!" noooo Nooo, "noo nooo noo

thy harpoon are at hand!--Down! down all of ye, but one man at the fore.
noo noooooo noo no nooo!--Nooo! nooo noo no no, noo noo noo no noo nooo.

The boats!--stand by!"
Noo noooo!--noooo no!"




Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, like
Noooooooo no noo noooooo nooo-noooooo no noo noooooo, noo noo, nooo

shooting stars, slid to the deck, by the isolated backstays and
nooooooo noooo, nooo no noo nooo, no noo nooooooo noooooooo noo

halyards; while Ahab, less dartingly, but still rapidly was dropped from
nooooooo; noooo Nooo, nooo noooooooo, noo noooo noooooo noo noooooo nooo

his perch.
noo noooo.




"Lower away," he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat--a spare one,
"Noooo nooo," no noooo, no nooo no no noo noooooo noo nooo--n noooo noo,

rigged the afternoon previous. "Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine--keep
nooooo noo noooooooo nooooooo. "No. Nooooooo, noo nooo no noooo--nooo

away from the boats, but keep near them. Lower, all!"
nooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo nooo nooo. Noooo, noo!"




As if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the first
No no no nooooo n noooo nooooo nooo nooo, no nooo nooo noooo noo noooo

assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the
noooooooo noooooo, Nooo Nooo noo nooooo, noo noo noo nooooo noo noo

three crews. Ahab's boat was central; and cheering his men, he told them
noooo noooo. Nooo'n nooo noo noooooo; noo nooooooo noo noo, no nooo nooo

he would take the whale head-and-head,--that is, pull straight up to his
no noooo nooo noo noooo nooo-noo-nooo,--nooo no, nooo nooooooo no no noo

forehead,--a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit, such
nooooooo,--n noo nooooooo noooo; noo nooo nooooo n noooooo noooo, nooo

a course excludes the coming onset from the whale's sidelong vision.
n nooooo nooooooo noo nooooo noooo nooo noo noooo'n nooooooo nooooo.

But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all three boats were
Noo noo nooo noooo noooo noo nooooo, noo noooo noo noo noooo noooo nooo

plain as the ship's three masts to his eye; the White Whale churning
noooo no noo nooo'n noooo noooo no noo noo; noo Noooo Noooo nooooooo

himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were, rushing
noooooo nooo noooooo noooo, nooooo no no noooooo no no nooo, noooooo

among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered appalling
noooo noo noooo nooo nooo nooo, noo n noooooo nooo, noooooo noooooooo

battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him from every
nooooo no noooo nooo; noo nooooooo no noo noooo nooooo no noo nooo noooo

boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank of which
nooo, nooooo nooo nooooo no nooooooooooo nooo nooooooo noooo no noooo

those boats were made. But skilfully manoeuvred, incessantly wheeling
noooo noooo nooo nooo. Noo noooooooo nooooooooo, noooooooooo nooooooo

like trained chargers in the field; the boats for a while eluded him;
nooo noooooo nooooooo no noo noooo; noo noooo noo n noooo nooooo noo;

though, at times, but by a plank's breadth; while all the time, Ahab's
nooooo, no noooo, noo no n noooo'n noooooo; noooo noo noo nooo, Nooo'n

unearthly slogan tore every other cry but his to shreds.
noooooooo nooooo nooo noooo noooo noo noo noo no nooooo.




But at last in his untraceable evolutions, the White Whale so crossed
Noo no nooo no noo noooooooooo nooooooooo, noo Noooo Noooo no noooooo

and recrossed, and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the three
noo noooooooo, noo no n nooooooo nooo noooooooo noo noooo no noo noooo

lines now fast to him, that they foreshortened, and, of themselves,
noooo noo nooo no noo, nooo nooo noooooooooooo, noo, no nooooooooo,

warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him; though now
nooooo noo noooooo noooo noooooo noo noooooo noooo no noo; nooooo noo

for a moment the whale drew aside a little, as if to rally for a more
noo n nooooo noo noooo nooo noooo n nooooo, no no no noooo noo n nooo

tremendous charge. Seizing that opportunity, Ahab first paid out more
nooooooooo nooooo. Noooooo nooo noooooooooo, Nooo noooo nooo noo nooo

line: and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it again--hoping
nooo: noo nooo noo noooooo noooooo noo noooooo no nooo no noooo--nooooo

that way to disencumber it of some snarls--when lo!--a sight more savage
nooo noo no noooooooooo no no nooo nooooo--nooo no!--n noooo nooo nooooo

than the embattled teeth of sharks!
nooo noo noooooooo noooo no nooooo!




Caught and twisted--corkscrewed in the mazes of the line, loose harpoons
Nooooo noo noooooo--noooooooooo no noo noooo no noo nooo, noooo nooooooo

and lances, with all their bristling barbs and points, came flashing
noo nooooo, nooo noo noooo noooooooo noooo noo nooooo, nooo nooooooo

and dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab's boat. Only one
noo nooooooo no no noo nooooo no noo nooo no Nooo'n nooo. Nooo noo

thing could be done. Seizing the boat-knife, he critically reached
noooo noooo no nooo. Noooooo noo nooo-noooo, no nooooooooo noooooo

within--through--and then, without--the rays of steel; dragged in
nooooo--noooooo--noo nooo, noooooo--noo nooo no noooo; noooooo no

the line beyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice
noo nooo nooooo, nooooo no, noooooo, no noo noooooo, noo nooo, noooo

sundering the rope near the chocks--dropped the intercepted fagot of
noooooooo noo nooo nooo noo nooooo--noooooo noo noooooooooo noooo no

steel into the sea; and was all fast again. That instant, the White
noooo nooo noo noo; noo noo noo nooo noooo. Nooo noooooo, noo Noooo

Whale made a sudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines;
Noooo nooo n nooooo nooo noooo noo noooooooo noooooo no noo noooo noooo;

by so doing, irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and
no no noooo, nooooooooooo noooooo noo nooo nooooooo noooo no Noooo noo

Flask towards his flukes; dashed them together like two rolling husks on
Noooo noooooo noo nooooo; nooooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo noooooo noooo no

a surf-beaten beach, and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in
n nooo-nooooo noooo, noo nooo, nooooo nooo nooo noo noo, noooooooooo no

a boiling maelstrom, in which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of
n noooooo noooooooo, no noooo, noo n noooo, noo noooooo noooo noooo no

the wrecks danced round and round, like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly
noo nooooo nooooo noooo noo noooo, nooo noo nooooo nooooo no n noooooo

stirred bowl of punch.
noooooo nooo no noooo.




While the two crews were yet circling in the waters, reaching out after
Noooo noo noo noooo nooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooo, nooooooo noo noooo

the revolving line-tubs, oars, and other floating furniture, while
noo noooooooo nooo-nooo, nooo, noo noooo nooooooo noooooooo, noooo

aslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial, twitching his
nooooo nooooo Noooo nooooo no noo nooo nooo no noooo nooo, noooooooo noo

legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb was lustily
nooo noooooo no nooooo noo noooooo nooo no nooooo; noo Noooo noo noooooo

singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while the old man's
noooooo noo noo nooo noo no noooo noo no; noo noooo noo noo noo'n

line--now parting--admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to
nooo--noo noooooo--nooooooo no noo noooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo no

rescue whom he could;--in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand
nooooo nooo no noooo;--no nooo nooo nooooooooooooooo no n nooooooo

concreted perils,--Ahab's yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards
noooooooo nooooo,--Nooo'n noo nooooooooo nooo nooooo noooo no noooooo

Heaven by invisible wires,--as, arrow-like, shooting perpendicularly
Nooooo no noooooooo noooo,--no, noooo-nooo, nooooooo noooooooooooooo

from the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its
nooo noo noo, noo Noooo Noooo nooooo noo noooo nooooooo noooooo noo

bottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into the air; till it fell
nooooo, noo nooo no, noooooo nooo noo nooo, nooo noo noo; nooo no nooo

again--gunwale downwards--and Ahab and his men struggled out from under
noooo--noooooo noooooooo--noo Nooo noo noo noo noooooooo noo nooo noooo

it, like seals from a sea-side cave.
no, nooo noooo nooo n noo-nooo nooo.




The first uprising momentum of the whale--modifying its direction as
Noo noooo nooooooo nooooooo no noo noooo--noooooooo noo noooooooo no

he struck the surface--involuntarily launched him along it, to a little
no nooooo noo noooooo--noooooooooooo nooooooo noo noooo no, no n nooooo

distance from the centre of the destruction he had made; and with his
nooooooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noooooooooo no noo nooo; noo nooo noo

back to it, he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes from
nooo no no, no noo noo noo n nooooo nooooo noooooo nooo noo nooooo nooo

side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the least chip
nooo no nooo; noo nooooooo n noooo noo, noo no noooo, noo noooo nooo

or crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, and
no noooo no noo noooo noooooo noo nooo, noo nooo noooooo nooo nooo, noo

came sideways smiting the sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his work
nooo nooooooo noooooo noo noo. Noo nooo, no no noooooooo nooo noo nooo

for that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through the
noo nooo nooo noo nooo, no nooooo noo noooooo nooooooo noooooo noo

ocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his
noooo, noo nooooooo noooo noo noo nooooooooooo noooo, noooooooo noo

leeward way at a traveller's methodic pace.
noooooo noo no n noooooooo'n nooooooo nooo.




As before, the attentive ship having descried the whole fight, again
No nooooo, noo noooooooo nooo nooooo nooooooo noo noooo noooo, noooo

came bearing down to the rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up the
nooo noooooo nooo no noo nooooo, noo nooooooo n nooo, nooooo no noo

floating mariners, tubs, oars, and whatever else could be caught at, and
nooooooo nooooooo, nooo, nooo, noo nooooooo nooo noooo no nooooo no, noo

safely landed them on her decks. Some sprained shoulders, wrists, and
nooooo nooooo nooo no noo noooo. Nooo nooooooo noooooooo, nooooo, noo

ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances; inextricable
nooooo; noooo nooooooooo; nooooooo nooooooo noo nooooo; nooooooooooo

intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these were there;
noooooooooo no nooo; noooooooo nooo noo nooooo; noo noooo nooo noooo;

but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen any one. As
noo no noooo no nooo noooooo noo nooooo no nooo nooooooo noo noo. No

with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly clinging to
nooo Nooooooo noo noo nooooo, no Nooo noo noo noooo nooooo nooooooo no

his boat's broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy float; nor
noo nooo'n nooooo nooo, noooo nooooooo n noooooooooooo nooo noooo; noo

did it so exhaust him as the previous day's mishap.
noo no no noooooo noo no noo nooooooo noo'n nooooo.




But when he was helped to the deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; as
Noo nooo no noo nooooo no noo nooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo; no

instead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder of
noooooo no nooooooo no noooooo no noooo nooo-nooo nooo noo nooooooo no

Starbuck, who had thus far been the foremost to assist him. His ivory
Nooooooo, noo noo nooo noo nooo noo nooooooo no nooooo noo. Noo noooo

leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splinter.
noo noo nooo noooooo noo, noooooo noo noo noooo noooo nooooooo.




"Aye, aye, Starbuck, 'tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the leaner who he
"Noo, noo, Nooooooo, 'noo noooo no nooo noooooooo, no noo nooooo noo no

will; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has."
nooo; noo noooo noo Nooo noo nooooo noooooo nooo no noo."




"The ferrule has not stood, sir," said the carpenter, now coming up; "I
"Noo noooooo noo noo noooo, noo," nooo noo noooooooo, noo nooooo no; "N

put good work into that leg."
noo nooo nooo nooo nooo noo."




"But no bones broken, sir, I hope," said Stubb with true concern.
"Noo no noooo nooooo, noo, N nooo," nooo Noooo nooo nooo noooooo.




"Aye! and all splintered to pieces, Stubb!--d'ye see it.--But even with
"Noo! noo noo nooooooooo no nooooo, Noooo!--n'no noo no.--Noo nooo nooo

a broken bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone of
n nooooo nooo, noo Nooo no noooooooo; noo N noooooo no nooooo nooo no

mine one jot more me, than this dead one that's lost. Nor white whale,
nooo noo noo nooo no, nooo nooo nooo noo nooo'n nooo. Noo noooo noooo,

nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and
noo noo, noo noooo, noo no nooo no noooo noo Nooo no noo noo nooooo noo

inaccessible being. Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrape
nooooooooooo noooo. Noo noo nooo noooo nooooo noooo, noo nooo nooooo

yonder roof?--Aloft there! which way?"
nooooo nooo?--Noooo noooo! noooo noo?"




"Dead to leeward, sir."
"Nooo no noooooo, noo."




"Up helm, then; pile on the sail again, ship keepers! down the rest of
"No nooo, nooo; nooo no noo nooo noooo, nooo noooooo! nooo noo nooo no

the spare boats and rig them--Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat's
noo noooo noooo noo noo nooo--No. Nooooooo nooo, noo nooooo noo nooo'n

crews."
noooo."




"Let me first help thee towards the bulwarks, sir."
"Noo no noooo nooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo, noo."




"Oh, oh, oh! how this splinter gores me now! Accursed fate! that the
"No, no, no! noo nooo nooooooo noooo no noo! Nooooooo nooo! nooo noo

unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!"
noooooooooooo noooooo no noo nooo nooooo nooo nooo n nooooo nooo!"




"Sir?"
"Noo?"




"My body, man, not thee. Give me something for a cane--there, that
"No nooo, noo, noo nooo. Nooo no noooooooo noo n nooo--noooo, nooo

shivered lance will do. Muster the men. Surely I have not seen him yet.
nooooooo noooo nooo no. Nooooo noo noo. Nooooo N nooo noo nooo noo noo.

By heaven it cannot be!--missing?--quick! call them all."
No nooooo no nooooo no!--noooooo?--noooo! nooo nooo noo."




The old man's hinted thought was true. Upon mustering the company, the
Noo noo noo'n nooooo noooooo noo nooo. Nooo noooooooo noo noooooo, noo

Parsee was not there.
Nooooo noo noo noooo.




"The Parsee!" cried Stubb--"he must have been caught in--"
"Noo Nooooo!" noooo Noooo--"no nooo nooo nooo nooooo no--"




"The black vomit wrench thee!--run all of ye above, alow, cabin,
"Noo noooo noooo nooooo nooo!--noo noo no no noooo, nooo, noooo,

forecastle--find him--not gone--not gone!"
nooooooooo--nooo noo--noo nooo--noo nooo!"




But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee was
Noo noooooo nooo nooooooo no noo nooo noo noooooo nooo noo Nooooo noo

nowhere to be found.
noooooo no no noooo.




"Aye, sir," said Stubb--"caught among the tangles of your line--I
"Noo, noo," nooo Noooo--"nooooo noooo noo noooooo no nooo nooo--N

thought I saw him dragging under."
noooooo N noo noo nooooooo noooo."




"MY line! MY line? Gone?--gone? What means that little word?--What
"NO nooo! NO nooo? Nooo?--nooo? Nooo noooo nooo nooooo nooo?--Nooo

death-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry.
noooo-noooo noooo no no, nooo noo Nooo nooooo no no no nooo noo nooooo.

The harpoon, too!--toss over the litter there,--d'ye see it?--the forged
Noo noooooo, noo!--nooo nooo noo nooooo noooo,--n'no noo no?--noo nooooo

iron, men, the white whale's--no, no, no,--blistered fool! this hand did
nooo, noo, noo noooo noooo'n--no, no, no,--noooooooo nooo! nooo nooo noo

dart it!--'tis in the fish!--Aloft there! Keep him nailed--Quick!--all
nooo no!--'noo no noo nooo!--Noooo noooo! Nooo noo nooooo--Noooo!--noo

hands to the rigging of the boats--collect the oars--harpooneers!
noooo no noo noooooo no noo noooo--noooooo noo nooo--noooooooooo!

the irons, the irons!--hoist the royals higher--a pull on all the
noo noooo, noo noooo!--noooo noo nooooo nooooo--n nooo no noo noo

sheets!--helm there! steady, steady for your life! I'll ten times girdle
nooooo!--nooo noooo! nooooo, nooooo noo nooo nooo! N'no noo noooo nooooo

the unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but I'll slay
noo nooooooooo noooo; noo noo nooo nooooooo noooooo no, noo N'no nooo

him yet!
noo noo!




"Great God! but for one single instant show thyself," cried Starbuck;
"Noooo Noo! noo noo noo nooooo noooooo nooo noooooo," noooo Nooooooo;

"never, never wilt thou capture him, old man--In Jesus' name no more of
"noooo, noooo nooo nooo noooooo noo, noo noo--No Noooo' nooo no nooo no

this, that's worse than devil's madness. Two days chased; twice stove
nooo, nooo'n noooo nooo noooo'n noooooo. Noo nooo nooooo; noooo noooo

to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy evil
no noooooooo; noo nooo noo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noooo nooo; noo nooo

shadow gone--all good angels mobbing thee with warnings:--
nooooo nooo--noo nooo nooooo noooooo nooo nooo nooooooo:--




"What more wouldst thou have?--Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish
"Nooo nooo noooooo nooo nooo?--Noooo no nooo noooooo nooo noooooooo nooo

till he swamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom
nooo no nooooo noo nooo noo? Noooo no no noooooo no noo no noo nooooo

of the sea? Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world? Oh,
no noo noo? Noooo no no noooo no noo no noo nooooooo noooo? No,

oh,--Impiety and blasphemy to hunt him more!"
no,--Noooooo noo noooooooo no nooo noo nooo!"




"Starbuck, of late I've felt strangely moved to thee; ever since that
"Nooooooo, no nooo N'no nooo noooooooo noooo no nooo; nooo noooo nooo

hour we both saw--thou know'st what, in one another's eyes. But in this
nooo no nooo noo--nooo nooo'no nooo, no noo noooooo'n nooo. Noo no nooo

matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this
nooooo no noo noooo, no noo noooo no noo nooo no no no noo nooo no nooo

hand--a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This
nooo--n noooooo, nooooooooo noooo. Nooo no noo nooo Nooo, noo. Nooo

whole act's immutably decreed. 'Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion
noooo noo'n noooooooo noooooo. 'Nooo noooooooo no nooo noo no n noooooo

years before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am the Fates' lieutenant; I act
noooo nooooo nooo noooo nooooo. Nooo! N no noo Noooo' nooooooooo; N noo

under orders. Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.--Stand round
noooo nooooo. Nooo nooo, noooooooo! nooo nooo noooooo nooo.--Noooo noooo

me, men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered
no, noo. No noo no noo noo noo nooo no noo noooo; noooooo no n nooooooo

lance; propped up on a lonely foot. 'Tis Ahab--his body's part; but
noooo; noooooo no no n nooooo nooo. 'Noo Nooo--noo nooo'n nooo; noo

Ahab's soul's a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. I feel
Nooo'n nooo'n n noooooooo, nooo noooo nooo n noooooo nooo. N nooo

strained, half stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a gale;
nooooooo, nooo nooooooo, no noooo nooo noo noooooooo nooooooo no n nooo;

and I may look so. But ere I break, ye'll hear me crack; and till ye hear
noo N noo nooo no. Noo noo N noooo, no'no nooo no noooo; noo nooo no nooo

THAT, know that Ahab's hawser tows his purpose yet. Believe ye, men, in
NOOO, nooo nooo Nooo'n nooooo nooo noo noooooo noo. Noooooo no, noo, no

the things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and cry encore! For ere they
noo nooooo nooooo noooo? Nooo noooo noooo, noo noo nooooo! Noo noo nooo

drown, drowning things will twice rise to the surface; then rise again,
noooo, nooooooo nooooo nooo noooo nooo no noo noooooo; nooo nooo noooo,

to sink for evermore. So with Moby Dick--two days he's floated--tomorrow
no nooo noo nooooooo. No nooo Nooo Nooo--noo nooo no'n noooooo--nooooooo

will be the third. Aye, men, he'll rise once more,--but only to spout
nooo no noo noooo. Noo, noo, no'no nooo nooo nooo,--noo nooo no noooo

his last! D'ye feel brave men, brave?"
noo nooo! N'no nooo noooo noo, noooo?"




"As fearless fire," cried Stubb.
"No nooooooo nooo," noooo Noooo.




"And as mechanical," muttered Ahab. Then as the men went forward, he
"Noo no nooooooooo," nooooooo Nooo. Nooo no noo noo nooo noooooo, no

muttered on: "The things called omens! And yesterday I talked the same
nooooooo no: "Noo nooooo nooooo noooo! Noo noooooooo N nooooo noo nooo

to Starbuck there, concerning my broken boat. Oh! how valiantly I seek
no Nooooooo noooo, nooooooooo no nooooo nooo. No! noo noooooooo N nooo

to drive out of others' hearts what's clinched so fast in mine!--The
no noooo noo no nooooo' nooooo nooo'n nooooooo no nooo no nooo!--Noo

Parsee--the Parsee!--gone, gone? and he was to go before:--but still was
Nooooo--noo Nooooo!--nooo, nooo? noo no noo no no nooooo:--noo noooo noo

to be seen again ere I could perish--How's that?--There's a riddle now
no no nooo noooo noo N noooo nooooo--Noo'n nooo?--Noooo'n n nooooo noo

might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line
noooo nooooo noo noo noooooo nooooo no noo nooooo no noo noooo nooo

of judges:--like a hawk's beak it pecks my brain. I'LL, I'LL solve it,
no nooooo:--nooo n nooo'n nooo no noooo no noooo. N'NO, N'NO noooo no,

though!"
nooooo!"




When dusk descended, the whale was still in sight to leeward.
Nooo nooo noooooooo, noo noooo noo noooo no noooo no noooooo.




So once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed nearly as
No nooo nooo noo nooo noo noooooooo, noo nooooooooo nooooo nooooo no

on the previous night; only, the sound of hammers, and the hum of the
no noo nooooooo noooo; nooo, noo noooo no noooooo, noo noo noo no noo

grindstone was heard till nearly daylight, as the men toiled by lanterns
nooooooooo noo noooo nooo nooooo nooooooo, no noo noo nooooo no nooooooo

in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and sharpening
no noo nooooooo noo noooooo noooooo no noo noooo noooo noo nooooooooo

their fresh weapons for the morrow. Meantime, of the broken keel of
noooo noooo noooooo noo noo nooooo. Nooooooo, no noo nooooo nooo no

Ahab's wrecked craft the carpenter made him another leg; while still as
Nooo'n noooooo noooo noo noooooooo nooo noo noooooo noo; noooo noooo no

on the night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his scuttle; his
no noo noooo nooooo, nooooooo Nooo noooo noooo nooooo noo noooooo; noo

hid, heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its dial; sat due
noo, nooooooooo nooooo nooooooooooooo nooo nooooooo no noo nooo; noo noo

eastward for the earliest sun.
nooooooo noo noo nooooooo noo.










CHAPTER 135. The Chase.--Third Day.
NOOOOOO noo. Noo Noooo.--Noooo Noo.







The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more the
Noo noooooo no noo noooo noo nooooo nooo noo noooo, noo nooo nooo noo

solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of the
nooooooo noooo-noo no noo nooo-nooo-nooo noo nooooooo no nooooo no noo

daylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar.
nooooooo nooo-nooo, noo nooooo noooo nooo noo nooooo noooo nooo.




"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.
"N'no noo noo?" noooo Nooo; noo noo noooo noo noo noo no noooo.




"In his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that's all. Helm
"No noo nooooooooo nooo, nooooo; noo nooooo nooo nooo, nooo'n noo. Nooo

there; steady, as thou goest, and hast been going. What a lovely day
noooo; nooooo, no nooo noooo, noo nooo nooo noooo. Nooo n nooooo noo

again! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the
noooo! nooo no n noo-nooo noooo, noo nooo noo n nooooo-noooo no noo

angels, and this morning the first of its throwing open to them, a
nooooo, noo nooo noooooo noo noooo no noo nooooooo nooo no nooo, n

fairer day could not dawn upon that world. Here's food for thought, had
nooooo noo noooo noo nooo nooo nooo noooo. Nooo'n nooo noo noooooo, noo

Ahab time to think; but Ahab never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels;
Nooo nooo no noooo; noo Nooo noooo nooooo; no nooo noooo, noooo, noooo;

THAT'S tingling enough for mortal man! to think's audacity. God only has
NOOO'N nooooooo nooooo noo nooooo noo! no noooo'n nooooooo. Noo nooo noo

that right and privilege. Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness and a
nooo noooo noo noooooooo. Nooooooo no, no noooo no no, n nooooooo noo n

calmness; and our poor hearts throb, and our poor brains beat too much
nooooooo; noo noo nooo nooooo noooo, noo noo nooo nooooo nooo noo nooo

for that. And yet, I've sometimes thought my brain was very calm--frozen
noo nooo. Noo noo, N'no noooooooo noooooo no noooo noo nooo nooo--nooooo

calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which the contents
nooo, nooo noo noooo nooooo no, nooo n noooo no noooo noo nooooooo

turned to ice, and shiver it. And still this hair is growing now; this
nooooo no noo, noo nooooo no. Noo noooo nooo nooo no noooooo noo; nooo

moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it's like that sort
nooooo noooooo, noo nooo nooo noooo no; noo no, no'n nooo nooo nooo

of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy clefts of
no nooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo nooooooo, noooooo noo nooooo nooooo no

Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How the wild winds blow it; they whip
Noooooooo noo no no Nooooooo nooo. Noo noo nooo noooo nooo no; nooo nooo

it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed ship they
no noooo no no noo nooo nooooo no noooo noooo nooo noo nooooo nooo nooo

cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this through prison
noooo no. N nooo nooo nooo noo no noooo noooo noo nooo noooooo nooooo

corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and ventilated them, and
noooooooo noo noooo, noo noooo no noooooooo, noo nooooooooo nooo, noo

now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces. Out upon it!--it's
noo noooo noooooo nooooo no nooooooo no noooooo. Noo nooo no!--no'n

tainted. Were I the wind, I'd blow no more on such a wicked, miserable
noooooo. Nooo N noo nooo, N'n nooo no nooo no nooo n nooooo, noooooooo

world. I'd crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink there. And yet, 'tis a
noooo. N'n noooo noooooooo no n nooo, noo noooo noooo. Noo noo, 'noo n

noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever conquered it? In every fight
noooo noo nooooo noooo, noo nooo! noo nooo noooooooo no? No noooo noooo

it has the last and bitterest blow. Run tilting at it, and you but run
no noo noo nooo noo noooooooo nooo. Noo noooooo no no, noo noo noo noo

through it. Ha! a coward wind that strikes stark naked men, but will not
noooooo no. No! n nooooo nooo nooo noooooo noooo noooo noo, noo nooo noo

stand to receive a single blow. Even Ahab is a braver thing--a nobler
noooo no noooooo n nooooo nooo. Nooo Nooo no n nooooo noooo--n nooooo

thing than THAT. Would now the wind but had a body; but all the things
noooo nooo NOOO. Noooo noo noo nooo noo noo n nooo; noo noo noo nooooo

that most exasperate and outrage mortal man, all these things are
nooo nooo nooooooooo noo noooooo nooooo noo, noo noooo nooooo noo

bodiless, but only bodiless as objects, not as agents. There's a most
nooooooo, noo nooo nooooooo no noooooo, noo no nooooo. Noooo'n n nooo

special, a most cunning, oh, a most malicious difference! And yet, I
noooooo, n nooo noooooo, no, n nooo noooooooo nooooooooo! Noo noo, N

say again, and swear it now, that there's something all glorious and
noo noooo, noo noooo no noo, nooo noooo'n noooooooo noo nooooooo noo

gracious in the wind. These warm Trade Winds, at least, that in the
nooooooo no noo nooo. Noooo nooo Noooo Noooo, no noooo, nooo no noo

clear heavens blow straight on, in strong and steadfast, vigorous
noooo noooooo nooo nooooooo no, no nooooo noo noooooooo, nooooooo

mildness; and veer not from their mark, however the baser currents of
nooooooo; noo nooo noo nooo noooo nooo, noooooo noo noooo nooooooo no

the sea may turn and tack, and mightiest Mississippies of the land swift
noo noo noo nooo noo nooo, noo noooooooo Noooooooooooo no noo nooo noooo

and swerve about, uncertain where to go at last. And by the eternal
noo nooooo noooo, noooooooo noooo no no no nooo. Noo no noo noooooo

Poles! these same Trades that so directly blow my good ship on; these
Noooo! noooo nooo Nooooo nooo no nooooooo nooo no nooo nooo no; noooo

Trades, or something like them--something so unchangeable, and full as
Nooooo, no noooooooo nooo nooo--noooooooo no nooooooooooo, noo nooo no

strong, blow my keeled soul along! To it! Aloft there! What d'ye see?"
nooooo, nooo no nooooo nooo noooo! No no! Noooo noooo! Nooo n'no noo?"




"Nothing, sir."
"Noooooo, noo."




"Nothing! and noon at hand! The doubloon goes a-begging! See the sun!
"Noooooo! noo nooo no nooo! Noo nooooooo nooo n-noooooo! Noo noo noo!

Aye, aye, it must be so. I've oversailed him. How, got the start? Aye,
Noo, noo, no nooo no no. N'no nooooooooo noo. Noo, noo noo noooo? Noo,

he's chasing ME now; not I, HIM--that's bad; I might have known it, too.
no'n noooooo NO noo; noo N, NOO--nooo'n noo; N noooo nooo noooo no, noo.

Fool! the lines--the harpoons he's towing. Aye, aye, I have run him by
Nooo! noo noooo--noo nooooooo no'n nooooo. Noo, noo, N nooo noo noo no

last night. About! about! Come down, all of ye, but the regular look
nooo noooo. Noooo! noooo! Nooo nooo, noo no no, noo noo noooooo nooo

outs! Man the braces!"
nooo! Noo noo nooooo!"




Steering as she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod's
Nooooooo no noo noo nooo, noo nooo noo nooo nooooooo no noo Nooooo'n

quarter, so that now being pointed in the reverse direction, the braced
noooooo, no nooo noo noooo noooooo no noo noooooo noooooooo, noo nooooo

ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own
nooo nooooo nooo nooo noo nooooo no noo noooooooo noo noooo no noo noo

white wake.
noooo nooo.




"Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw," murmured Starbuck to
"Noooooo noo nooo no noo nooooo noo noo nooo noo," nooooooo Nooooooo no

himself, as he coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail. "God keep
noooooo, no no nooooo noo noo-nooooo nooo-noooo nooo noo nooo. "Noo nooo

us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from the inside wet my
no, noo noooooo no noooo nooo nooo nooooo no, noo nooo noo nooooo noo no

flesh. I misdoubt me that I disobey my God in obeying him!"
noooo. N nooooooo no nooo N noooooo no Noo no noooooo noo!"




"Stand by to sway me up!" cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket.
"Noooo no no nooo no no!" noooo Nooo, noooooooo no noo nooooo nooooo.

"We should meet him soon."
"No nooooo nooo noo nooo."




"Aye, aye, sir," and straightway Starbuck did Ahab's bidding, and once
"Noo, noo, noo," noo noooooooooo Nooooooo noo Nooo'n noooooo, noo nooo

more Ahab swung on high.
nooo Nooo noooo no nooo.




A whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages. Time itself now held
N noooo nooo noo nooooo; nooo-nooooo noo no nooo. Nooo nooooo noo nooo

long breaths with keen suspense. But at last, some three points off the
nooo noooooo nooo nooo nooooooo. Noo no nooo, nooo noooo nooooo noo noo

weather bow, Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the three
noooooo noo, Nooo nooooooo noo noooo noooo, noo noooooooo nooo noo noooo

mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced
nooo-noooo noooo noooooo nooo no no no noo noooooo no nooo noo nooooo

it.
no.




"Forehead to forehead I meet thee, this third time, Moby Dick! On deck
"Nooooooo no nooooooo N nooo nooo, nooo noooo nooo, Nooo Nooo! No nooo

there!--brace sharper up; crowd her into the wind's eye. He's too
noooo!--noooo noooooo no; noooo noo nooo noo nooo'n noo. No'n noo

far off to lower yet, Mr. Starbuck. The sails shake! Stand over that
noo noo no noooo noo, No. Nooooooo. Noo noooo noooo! Noooo nooo nooo

helmsman with a top-maul! So, so; he travels fast, and I must down. But
nooooooo nooo n noo-nooo! No, no; no noooooo nooo, noo N nooo nooo. Noo

let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there's
noo no nooo noo nooo nooo noooo nooo noooo nooo no noo noo; noooo'n

time for that. An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, and
nooo noo nooo. No noo, noo noooo, noo noo noooooo no noooo; noo, noo

not changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from the sand-hills of
noo noooooo n nooo noooo N noooo noo no, n noo, nooo noo nooo-noooo no

Nantucket! The same!--the same!--the same to Noah as to me. There's
Noooooooo! Noo nooo!--noo nooo!--noo nooo no Nooo no no no. Noooo'n

a soft shower to leeward. Such lovely leewardings! They must lead
n nooo nooooo no noooooo. Nooo nooooo noooooooooo! Nooo nooo nooo

somewhere--to something else than common land, more palmy than the
noooooooo--no noooooooo nooo nooo nooooo nooo, nooo noooo nooo noo

palms. Leeward! the white whale goes that way; look to windward,
noooo. Noooooo! noo noooo noooo nooo nooo noo; nooo no nooooooo,

then; the better if the bitterer quarter. But good bye, good bye, old
nooo; noo nooooo no noo nooooooo noooooo. Noo nooo noo, nooo noo, noo

mast-head! What's this?--green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.
nooo-nooo! Nooo'n nooo?--noooo? noo, nooo nooooo no noooo nooooo nooooo.

No such green weather stains on Ahab's head! There's the difference now
No nooo noooo noooooo nooooo no Nooo'n nooo! Noooo'n noo nooooooooo noo

between man's old age and matter's. But aye, old mast, we both grow old
noooooo noo'n noo noo noo nooooo'n. Noo noo, noo nooo, no nooo nooo noo

together; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship? Aye, minus
nooooooo; noooo no noo noooo, nooooo, noo no noo, no nooo? Noo, noooo

a leg, that's all. By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live
n noo, nooo'n noo. No nooooo nooo nooo nooo noo noo nooooo no no nooo

flesh every way. I can't compare with it; and I've known some ships made
noooo noooo noo. N noo'n noooooo nooo no; noo N'no noooo nooo noooo nooo

of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital stuff of
no nooo noooo noooooo noo noooo no noo nooo no noo nooo noooo noooo no

vital fathers. What's that he said? he should still go before me, my
noooo noooooo. Nooo'n nooo no nooo? no nooooo noooo no nooooo no, no

pilot; and yet to be seen again? But where? Will I have eyes at the
noooo; noo noo no no nooo noooo? Noo noooo? Nooo N nooo nooo no noo

bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and all
nooooo no noo noo, noooooooo N noooooo noooo noooooo nooooo? noo noo

night I've been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to. Aye, aye,
noooo N'no nooo noooooo nooo noo, nooooooo no noo nooo no. Noo, noo,

like many more thou told'st direful truth as touching thyself, O Parsee;
nooo nooo nooo nooo nooo'no noooooo noooo no nooooooo noooooo, N Nooooo;

but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short. Good-bye, mast-head--keep a good
noo, Nooo, noooo noo nooo nooo noooo. Nooo-noo, nooo-nooo--nooo n nooo

eye upon the whale, the while I'm gone. We'll talk to-morrow, nay,
noo nooo noo noooo, noo noooo N'n nooo. No'no nooo no-nooooo, noo,

to-night, when the white whale lies down there, tied by head and tail."
no-noooo, nooo noo noooo noooo nooo nooo noooo, nooo no nooo noo nooo."




He gave the word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered
No nooo noo nooo; noo noooo nooooo noooo noo, noo nooooooo noooooo

through the cloven blue air to the deck.
noooooo noo nooooo nooo noo no noo nooo.




In due time the boats were lowered; but as standing in his shallop's
No noo nooo noo noooo nooo noooooo; noo no nooooooo no noo noooooo'n

stern, Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he waved to the
noooo, Nooo nooo noooooo nooo noo noooo no noo noooooo, no noooo no noo

mate,--who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck--and bade him pause.
nooo,--noo nooo noo no noo nooooo-noooo no nooo--noo nooo noo noooo.




"Starbuck!"
"Nooooooo!"




"Sir?"
"Noo?"




"For the third time my soul's ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck."
"Noo noo noooo nooo no nooo'n nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooo, Nooooooo."




"Aye, sir, thou wilt have it so."
"Noo, noo, nooo nooo nooo no no."




"Some ships sail from their ports, and ever afterwards are missing,
"Nooo noooo nooo nooo noooo noooo, noo nooo nooooooooo noo noooooo,

Starbuck!"
Nooooooo!"




"Truth, sir: saddest truth."
"Noooo, noo: noooooo noooo."




"Some men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at the full of
"Nooo noo noo no noo nooo; nooo no noo noooo; nooo no noo nooo no

the flood;--and I feel now like a billow that's all one crested comb,
noo noooo;--noo N nooo noo nooo n nooooo nooo'n noo noo noooooo nooo,

Starbuck. I am old;--shake hands with me, man."
Nooooooo. N no noo;--noooo noooo nooo no, noo."




Their hands met; their eyes fastened; Starbuck's tears the glue.
Noooo noooo noo; noooo nooo nooooooo; Nooooooo'n noooo noo nooo.




"Oh, my captain, my captain!--noble heart--go not--go not!--see, it's a
"No, no noooooo, no noooooo!--noooo noooo--no noo--no noo!--noo, no'n n

brave man that weeps; how great the agony of the persuasion then!"
noooo noo nooo noooo; noo noooo noo noooo no noo nooooooooo nooo!"




"Lower away!"--cried Ahab, tossing the mate's arm from him. "Stand by
"Noooo nooo!"--noooo Nooo, noooooo noo nooo'n noo nooo noo. "Noooo no

the crew!"
noo nooo!"




In an instant the boat was pulling round close under the stern.
No no noooooo noo nooo noo noooooo noooo noooo noooo noo noooo.




"The sharks! the sharks!" cried a voice from the low cabin-window there;
"Noo nooooo! noo nooooo!" noooo n noooo nooo noo noo noooo-nooooo noooo;

"O master, my master, come back!"
"N nooooo, no nooooo, nooo nooo!"




But Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and the
Noo Nooo noooo noooooo; noo noo noo noooo noo nooo-nooooo nooo; noo noo

boat leaped on.
nooo nooooo no.




Yet the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, when
Noo noo noooo noooo nooo; noo nooooo noo no nooooo nooo noo nooo, nooo

numbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath
noooooo no nooooo, noooooooo nooooo nooo noo noo nooo nooooo noooooo

the hull, maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every time they
noo nooo, noooooooooo noooooo no noo nooooo no noo nooo, noooo nooo nooo

dipped in the water; and in this way accompanied the boat with their
nooooo no noo noooo; noo no nooo noo noooooooooo noo nooo nooo noooo

bites. It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boats in
noooo. No no n noooo noo nooooooooo noooooooo no noo noooo-noooo no

those swarming seas; the sharks at times apparently following them in
noooo nooooooo nooo; noo nooooo no noooo nooooooooo noooooooo nooo no

the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of marching
noo nooo noooooooo noo nooo nooooooo noooo nooo noo noooooo no nooooooo

regiments in the east. But these were the first sharks that had been
noooooooo no noo nooo. Noo noooo nooo noo noooo nooooo nooo noo nooo

observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first descried;
nooooooo no noo Nooooo noooo noo Noooo Noooo noo nooo noooo nooooooo;

and whether it was that Ahab's crew were all such tiger-yellow
noo noooooo no noo nooo Nooo'n nooo nooo noo nooo noooo-nooooo

barbarians, and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses of the
nooooooooo, noo noooooooo noooo noooo nooo noooo no noo nooooo no noo

sharks--a matter sometimes well known to affect them,--however it was,
nooooo--n nooooo noooooooo nooo noooo no nooooo nooo,--noooooo no noo,

they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others.
nooo nooooo no nooooo nooo noo nooo noooooo noooooooo noo nooooo.




"Heart of wrought steel!" murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, and
"Noooo no noooooo noooo!" nooooooo Nooooooo nooooo nooo noo nooo, noo

following with his eyes the receding boat--"canst thou yet ring boldly
noooooooo nooo noo nooo noo nooooooo nooo--"noooo nooo noo nooo nooooo

to that sight?--lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed by
no nooo noooo?--nooooooo noo nooo noooo nooooooo nooooo, noo nooooooo no

them, open-mouthed to the chase; and this the critical third day?--For
nooo, nooo-noooooo no noo noooo; noo nooo noo nooooooo noooo noo?--Noo

when three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit; be sure
nooo noooo nooo nooo nooooooo no noo nooooooooo noooooo noooooo; no nooo

the first is the morning, the second the noon, and the third the evening
noo noooo no noo noooooo, noo nooooo noo nooo, noo noo noooo noo noooooo

and the end of that thing--be that end what it may. Oh! my God! what
noo noo noo no nooo noooo--no nooo noo nooo no noo. No! no Noo! nooo

is this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly calm, yet
no nooo nooo nooooo noooooo no, noo nooooo no no nooooo nooo, noo

expectant,--fixed at the top of a shudder! Future things swim before me,
noooooooo,--noooo no noo noo no n noooooo! Nooooo nooooo nooo nooooo no,

as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim.
no no noooo nooooooo noo noooooooo; noo noo nooo no noooooo noooo noo.

Mary, girl! thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy! I seem to
Nooo, nooo! nooo nooooo no nooo noooooo nooooo no; noo! N nooo no

see but thy eyes grown wondrous blue. Strangest problems of life seem
noo noo noo nooo noooo nooooooo nooo. Noooooooo nooooooo no nooo nooo

clearing; but clouds sweep between--Is my journey's end coming? My legs
nooooooo; noo nooooo noooo noooooo--No no noooooo'n noo nooooo? No nooo

feel faint; like his who has footed it all day. Feel thy heart,--beats
nooo noooo; nooo noo noo noo nooooo no noo noo. Nooo noo noooo,--noooo

it yet? Stir thyself, Starbuck!--stave it off--move, move!
no noo? Nooo noooooo, Nooooooo!--noooo no noo--nooo, nooo!

speak aloud!--Mast-head there! See ye my boy's hand on the
noooo noooo!--Nooo-nooo noooo! Noo no no noo'n nooo no noo

hill?--Crazed;--aloft there!--keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:--
nooo?--Nooooo;--noooo noooo!--nooo noo noooooo noo nooo noo noooo:--




"Mark well the whale!--Ho! again!--drive off that hawk! see! he pecks--he
"Nooo nooo noo noooo!--No! noooo!--noooo noo nooo nooo! noo! no noooo--no

tears the vane"--pointing to the red flag flying at the main-truck--"Ha!
noooo noo nooo"--nooooooo no noo noo nooo nooooo no noo nooo-noooo--"No!

he soars away with it!--Where's the old man now? see'st thou that sight,
no noooo nooo nooo no!--Noooo'n noo noo noo noo? noo'no nooo nooo noooo,

oh Ahab!--shudder, shudder!"
no Nooo!--noooooo, noooooo!"




The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads--a
Noo noooo noo noo nooo nooo noo, nooo no n nooooo nooo noo nooo-noooo--n

downward pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; but
nooooooo noooooo noo, Nooo nooo nooo noo noooo noo noooooo; noo

intending to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way a little
noooooooo no no nooo noo no noo nooo nooooo, no nooo no noo noo n nooooo

sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew maintaining the profoundest
nooooooo nooo noo nooooo; noo noooooooo nooo noooooooooo noo noooooooooo

silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered against the
noooooo, no noo nooo-nooo noooo nooooooo noo nooooooo noooooo noo

opposing bow.
nooooooo noo.




"Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye waves! to their uttermost heads
"Noooo, noooo no nooo noooo, no no noooo! no noooo noooooooo noooo

drive them in! ye but strike a thing without a lid; and no coffin and no
noooo nooo no! no noo nooooo n noooo noooooo n noo; noo no nooooo noo no

hearse can be mine:--and hemp only can kill me! Ha! ha!"
nooooo noo no nooo:--noo nooo nooo noo nooo no! No! no!"




Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles; then
Nooooooo noo nooooo nooooo nooo nooooo noooooo no noooo noooooo; nooo

quickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of
noooooo nooooooo, no no nooooooo noooooo nooo n noooooooo nooo no

ice, swiftly rising to the surface. A low rumbling sound was heard; a
noo, noooooo nooooo no noo noooooo. N noo nooooooo noooo noo noooo; n

subterraneous hum; and then all held their breaths; as bedraggled with
noooooooooooo noo; noo nooo noo nooo noooo noooooo; no nooooooooo nooo

trailing ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise,
nooooooo noooo, noo nooooooo, noo nooooo, n nooo nooo nooo nooooooooo,

but obliquely from the sea. Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist, it
noo noooooooo nooo noo noo. Nooooooo no n nooo nooooooo nooo no nooo, no

hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back
noooooo noo n nooooo no noo noooooooo noo; noo nooo nooo nooooooo nooo

into the deep. Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for
nooo noo nooo. Noooooo nooooo nooo noooooo, noo nooooo noooooo noo

an instant like heaps of fountains, then brokenly sank in a shower of
no noooooo nooo noooo no noooooooo, nooo nooooooo nooo no n nooooo no

flakes, leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the
nooooo, noooooo noo nooooooo noooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo noooo noo

marble trunk of the whale.
nooooo noooo no noo noooo.




"Give way!" cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward to
"Nooo noo!" noooo Nooo no noo noooooo, noo noo noooo nooooo noooooo no

the attack; but maddened by yesterday's fresh irons that corroded in
noo nooooo; noo nooooooo no noooooooo'n noooo noooo nooo nooooooo no

him, Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell
noo, Nooo Nooo nooooo nooooooooo noooooooo no noo noo nooooo nooo nooo

from heaven. The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad
nooo nooooo. Noo nooo noooo no nooooo noooooo noooooooooooo noo noooo

white forehead, beneath the transparent skin, looked knitted together;
noooo nooooooo, noooooo noo noooooooooo nooo, nooooo noooooo nooooooo;

as head on, he came churning his tail among the boats; and once more
no nooo no, no nooo nooooooo noo nooo noooo noo noooo; noo nooo nooo

flailed them apart; spilling out the irons and lances from the two
noooooo nooo noooo; nooooooo noo noo noooo noo nooooo nooo noo noo

mates' boats, and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows,
noooo' noooo, noo noooooo no noo nooo no noo noooo nooo no noooo nooo,

but leaving Ahab's almost without a scar.
noo noooooo Nooo'n nooooo noooooo n nooo.




While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks; and as the
Noooo Nooooo noo Nooooooo nooo nooooooo noo nooooooo nooooo; noo no noo

whale swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire flank as he
noooo nooooooo noo nooo nooo, nooooo, noo nooooo noo nooooo noooo no no

shot by them again; at that moment a quick cry went up. Lashed round
nooo no nooo noooo; no nooo nooooo n noooo noo nooo no. Nooooo noooo

and round to the fish's back; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which,
noo noooo no noo nooo'n nooo; nooooooo no noo noooo nooo noooo no noooo,

during the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines
nooooo noo nooo noooo, noo noooo noo nooooo noo noooooooooo no noo noooo

around him, the half torn body of the Parsee was seen; his sable raiment
nooooo noo, noo nooo nooo nooo no noo Nooooo noo nooo; noo noooo noooooo

frayed to shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon old Ahab.
nooooo no nooooo; noo noooooooo nooo nooooo nooo nooo noo Nooo.




The harpoon dropped from his hand.
Noo noooooo noooooo nooo noo nooo.




"Befooled, befooled!"--drawing in a long lean breath--"Aye, Parsee! I
"Nooooooo, nooooooo!"--noooooo no n nooo nooo nooooo--"Noo, Nooooo! N

see thee again.--Aye, and thou goest before; and this, THIS then is the
noo nooo noooo.--Noo, noo nooo noooo nooooo; noo nooo, NOOO nooo no noo

hearse that thou didst promise. But I hold thee to the last letter of
nooooo nooo nooo noooo noooooo. Noo N nooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo no

thy word. Where is the second hearse? Away, mates, to the ship! those
noo nooo. Noooo no noo nooooo nooooo? Nooo, noooo, no noo nooo! noooo

boats are useless now; repair them if ye can in time, and return to
noooo noo noooooo noo; nooooo nooo no no noo no nooo, noo nooooo no

me; if not, Ahab is enough to die--Down, men! the first thing that but
no; no noo, Nooo no nooooo no noo--Nooo, noo! noo noooo noooo nooo noo

offers to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon. Ye are
nooooo no nooo nooo nooo nooo N noooo no, nooo noooo N noooooo. No noo

not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.--Where's the
noo noooo noo, noo no nooo noo no nooo; noo no nooo no.--Noooo'n noo

whale? gone down again?"
noooo? nooo nooo noooo?"




But he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent upon escaping with the
Noo no nooooo noo nooo noo nooo; noo no no nooo nooo nooooooo nooo noo

corpse he bore, and as if the particular place of the last encounter had
nooooo no nooo, noo no no noo nooooooooo noooo no noo nooo noooooooo noo

been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now again steadily
nooo noo n noooo no noo noooooo nooooo, Nooo Nooo noo noo noooo nooooooo

swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship,--which thus far had
nooooooo noooooo; noo noo nooooo nooooo noo nooo,--noooo nooo noo noo

been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the present
nooo noooooo no noo nooooooo noooooooo no noo, nooooo noo noo noooooo

her headway had been stopped. He seemed swimming with his utmost
noo noooooo noo nooo noooooo. No nooooo nooooooo nooo noo nooooo

velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the
nooooooo, noo noo nooo nooooo nooo nooooooo noo noo nooooooo nooo no noo

sea.
noo.




"Oh! Ahab," cried Starbuck, "not too late is it, even now, the third
"No! Nooo," noooo Nooooooo, "noo noo nooo no no, nooo noo, noo noooo

day, to desist. See! Moby Dick seeks thee not. It is thou, thou, that
noo, no nooooo. Noo! Nooo Nooo noooo nooo noo. No no nooo, nooo, nooo

madly seekest him!"
noooo noooooo noo!"




Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelled to
Noooooo nooo no noo nooooo nooo, noo nooooo nooo noo noooooo nooooooo no

leeward, by both oars and canvas. And at last when Ahab was sliding
noooooo, no nooo nooo noo nooooo. Noo no nooo nooo Nooo noo noooooo

by the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck's face as he
no noo nooooo, no nooo no noooooo no noooooooooo Nooooooo'n nooo no no

leaned over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, and follow
nooooo nooo noo nooo, no nooooo noo no nooo noo nooooo noooo, noo nooooo

him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval. Glancing upwards, he
noo, noo noo noooooo, no n noooooooo nooooooo. Nooooooo noooooo, no

saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three
noo Nooooooo, Nooooooo, noo Nooooo, noooooo nooooooo no noo noooo

mast-heads; while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats
nooo-noooo; noooo noo noooooo nooo noooooo no noo noo nooooo noooo

which had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in
noooo noo noo nooo nooo noooooo no noo nooo, noo nooo nooooo no nooo no

repairing them. One after the other, through the port-holes, as he sped,
noooooooo nooo. Noo noooo noo noooo, noooooo noo nooo-noooo, no no nooo,

he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying themselves
no nooo nooooo nooooo nooooooo no Noooo noo Noooo, noooooo nooooooooo

on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. As he saw all this; as he
no nooo noooo noooooo no noo noooo noo nooooo. No no noo noo nooo; no no

heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers seemed driving
noooo noo noooooo no noo nooooo noooo; noo noooo noooooo nooooo noooooo

a nail into his heart. But he rallied. And now marking that the vane or
n nooo nooo noo noooo. Noo no noooooo. Noo noo noooooo nooo noo nooo no

flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted to Tashtego, who had
nooo noo nooo nooo noo nooo-nooo-nooo, no noooooo no Nooooooo, noo noo

just gained that perch, to descend again for another flag, and a hammer
nooo nooooo nooo noooo, no noooooo noooo noo noooooo nooo, noo n nooooo

and nails, and so nail it to the mast.
noo noooo, noo no nooo no no noo nooo.




Whether fagged by the three days' running chase, and the resistance
Noooooo nooooo no noo noooo nooo' noooooo noooo, noo noo nooooooooo

to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether it was some
no noo nooooooo no noo noooooo nooooo no nooo; no noooooo no noo nooo

latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was true, the White
nooooo noooooooooooo noo nooooo no noo: noooooooo noo nooo, noo Noooo

Whale's way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat so rapidly
Noooo'n noo noo noooo no noooo, no no nooooo, nooo noo nooo no noooooo

nearing him once more; though indeed the whale's last start had not been
noooooo noo nooo nooo; nooooo nooooo noo noooo'n nooo noooo noo noo nooo

so long a one as before. And still as Ahab glided over the waves the
no nooo n noo no nooooo. Noo noooo no Nooo nooooo nooo noo noooo noo

unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to the
noooooooo nooooo noooooooooo noo; noo no nooooooooooooo noooo no noo

boat; and so continually bit at the plying oars, that the blades became
nooo; noo no noooooooooo noo no noo nooooo nooo, nooo noo nooooo nooooo

jagged and crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, at almost
nooooo noo nooooooo, noo nooo noooo noooooooo no noo noo, no nooooo

every dip.
noooo noo.




"Heed them not! those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars. Pull on!
"Nooo nooo noo! noooo noooo noo nooo noo nooooooo no nooo nooo. Nooo no!

'tis the better rest, the shark's jaw than the yielding water."
'noo noo nooooo nooo, noo noooo'n noo nooo noo nooooooo noooo."




"But at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!"
"Noo no noooo nooo, noo, noo nooo nooooo nooo noooooo noo noooooo!"




"They will last long enough! pull on!--But who can tell"--he
"Nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo! nooo no!--Noo noo noo nooo"--no

muttered--"whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on
nooooooo--"noooooo noooo nooooo nooo no noooo no noo noooo no no

Ahab?--But pull on! Aye, all alive, now--we near him. The helm! take the
Nooo?--Noo nooo no! Noo, noo noooo, noo--no nooo noo. Noo nooo! nooo noo

helm! let me pass,"--and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forward
nooo! noo no nooo,"--noo no nooooo noo no noo noooooo nooooo noo noooooo

to the bows of the still flying boat.
no noo nooo no noo noooo nooooo nooo.




At length as the craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along
No nooooo no noo noooo noo nooo no noo nooo, noo noo noooooo noooo

with the White Whale's flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its
nooo noo Noooo Noooo'n noooo, no nooooo noooooooo noooooooo no noo

advance--as the whale sometimes will--and Ahab was fairly within the
noooooo--no noo noooo noooooooo nooo--noo Nooo noo nooooo nooooo noo

smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale's spout, curled
noooo nooooooo nooo, noooo, nooooo noo nooo noo noooo'n noooo, nooooo

round his great, Monadnock hump; he was even thus close to him; when,
noooo noo noooo, Noooooooo nooo; no noo nooo nooo noooo no noo; nooo,

with body arched back, and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to the
nooo nooo nooooo nooo, noo nooo nooo nooooooooo nooo-nooooo no noo

poise, he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer curse into the
noooo, no nooooo noo nooooo nooo, noo noo noo noooooo noooo nooo noo

hated whale. As both steel and curse sank to the socket, as if sucked
noooo noooo. No nooo noooo noo noooo nooo no noo nooooo, no no nooooo

into a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed; spasmodically rolled his nigh
nooo n nooooo, Nooo Nooo nooooooo noooooo; noooooooooooo nooooo noo nooo

flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so suddenly
noooo noooooo noo noo, noo, noooooo noooooo n nooo no no, no nooooooo

canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated part of the
nooooo noo nooo nooo, nooo noo no noo nooo noo noo nooooooo nooo no noo

gunwale to which he then clung, Ahab would once more have been tossed
noooooo no noooo no nooo noooo, Nooo noooo nooo nooo nooo nooo nooooo

into the sea. As it was, three of the oarsmen--who foreknew not the
nooo noo noo. No no noo, noooo no noo noooooo--noo nooooooo noo noo

precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared for its
noooooo noooooo no noo nooo, noo nooo noooooooo nooooooooo noo noo

effects--these were flung out; but so fell, that, in an instant two of
noooooo--noooo nooo noooo noo; noo no nooo, nooo, no no noooooo noo no

them clutched the gunwale again, and rising to its level on a combing
nooo nooooooo noo noooooo noooo, noo nooooo no noo noooo no n noooooo

wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third man helplessly
nooo, nooooo nooooooooo nooooo noooooo noooo; noo noooo noo nooooooooo

dropping astern, but still afloat and swimming.
nooooooo nooooo, noo noooo nooooo noo nooooooo.




Almost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated,
Nooooo nooooooooooooo, nooo n nooooo nooooooo no noooooooooo,

instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the weltering
noooooooooooo noooooooo, noo Noooo Noooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooooo

sea. But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with
noo. Noo nooo Nooo noooo noo no noo noooooooo no nooo noo noooo nooo

the line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on their
noo nooo, noo nooo no no; noo noooooooo noo nooo no nooo noooo no noooo

seats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line
noooo, noo noo noo nooo no no noo nooo; noo nooooo noo noooooooooo nooo

felt that double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty air!
nooo nooo nooooo nooooo noo noo, no noooooo no noo noooo noo!




"What breaks in me? Some sinew cracks!--'tis whole again; oars! oars!
"Nooo nooooo no no? Nooo noooo nooooo!--'noo noooo noooo; nooo! nooo!

Burst in upon him!"
Noooo no nooo noo!"




Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled
Noooooo noo nooooooooo nooo no noo noo-nooooooo nooo, noo noooo noooooo

round to present his blank forehead at bay; but in that evolution,
noooo no noooooo noo noooo nooooooo no noo; noo no nooo noooooooo,

catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeing
nooooooo noooo no noo noooooo noooo nooo no noo nooo; noooooooo nooooo

in it the source of all his persecutions; bethinking it--it may be--a
no no noo nooooo no noo noo nooooooooooo; nooooooooo no--no noo no--n

larger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down upon its advancing
nooooo noo nooooo noo; no n nooooo, no nooo nooo nooo noo noooooooo

prow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam.
nooo, noooooo noo nooo nooo noooo noooooo no nooo.




Ahab staggered; his hand smote his forehead. "I grow blind; hands!
Nooo noooooooo; noo nooo noooo noo nooooooo. "N nooo noooo; noooo!

stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way. Is't night?"
noooooo noo nooooo no nooo N noo noo noooo no noo. No'n noooo?"




"The whale! The ship!" cried the cringing oarsmen.
"Noo noooo! Noo nooo!" noooo noo nooooooo noooooo.




"Oars! oars! Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for
"Nooo! nooo! Noooo noooooooo no noo nooooo, N noo, nooo noo no no noo

ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark! I see:
nooo noo nooo, Nooo noo noooo nooo nooo, nooo nooo nooo noo nooo! N noo:

the ship! the ship! Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship?"
noo nooo! noo nooo! Nooo no, no noo! Nooo no noo nooo no nooo?"




But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the
Noo no noo noooooo noooooooo nooooo noooo nooo noooooo noo

sledge-hammering seas, the before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planks
nooooo-noooooooo nooo, noo nooooo noooo-noooooo noo-nooo no noo nooooo

burst through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boat
noooo noooooo, noo no no noooooo nooooo, noo noooooooooo nooooooo nooo

lay nearly level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew, trying
noo nooooo noooo nooo noo noooo; noo nooo-nooooo, noooooooo nooo, nooooo

hard to stop the gap and bale out the pouring water.
nooo no nooo noo noo noo nooo noo noo noooooo noooo.




Meantime, for that one beholding instant, Tashtego's mast-head hammer
Nooooooo, noo nooo noo noooooooo noooooo, Nooooooo'n nooo-nooo nooooo

remained suspended in his hand; and the red flag, half-wrapping him as
nooooooo noooooooo no noo nooo; noo noo noo nooo, nooo-nooooooo noo no

with a plaid, then streamed itself straight out from him, as his own
nooo n noooo, nooo nooooooo nooooo nooooooo noo nooo noo, no noo noo

forward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, standing upon the
noooooo-noooooo noooo; noooo Nooooooo noo Noooo, nooooooo nooo noo

bowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster just as soon
nooooooo noooooo, nooooo noooo no noo nooo-nooooo noooooo nooo no nooo

as he.
no no.




"The whale, the whale! Up helm, up helm! Oh, all ye sweet powers of air,
"Noo noooo, noo noooo! No nooo, no nooo! No, noo no noooo nooooo no noo,

now hug me close! Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in a woman's
noo noo no noooo! Noo noo Nooooooo noo, no noo no nooo, no n noooo'n

fainting fit. Up helm, I say--ye fools, the jaw! the jaw! Is this the
nooooooo noo. No nooo, N noo--no noooo, noo noo! noo noo! No nooo noo

end of all my bursting prayers? all my life-long fidelities? Oh, Ahab,
noo no noo no nooooooo noooooo? noo no nooo-nooo nooooooooo? No, Nooo,

Ahab, lo, thy work. Steady! helmsman, steady. Nay, nay! Up helm again!
Nooo, no, noo nooo. Nooooo! nooooooo, nooooo. Noo, noo! No nooo noooo!

He turns to meet us! Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on towards one,
No noooo no nooo no! No, noo nooooooooooo nooo nooooo no noooooo noo,

whose duty tells him he cannot depart. My God, stand by me now!"
noooo nooo noooo noo no nooooo nooooo. No Noo, noooo no no noo!"




"Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now help
"Noooo noo no no, noo noooo noooo no, noooooo noo noo nooo nooo noo nooo

Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here. I grin at thee, thou grinning whale!
Noooo; noo Noooo, noo, nooooo nooo. N nooo no nooo, nooo nooooooo noooo!

Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb's own unwinking
Noo nooo nooooo Noooo, no nooo Noooo noooo, noo Noooo'n noo noooooooo

eye? And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is all too
noo? Noo noo nooo Noooo nooo no noo nooo n nooooooo nooo no noo noo

soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood! I grin at thee, thou
nooo; noooo no nooo noooooo nooo noooooooo! N nooo no nooo, nooo

grinning whale! Look ye, sun, moon, and stars! I call ye assassins of
nooooooo noooo! Nooo no, noo, nooo, noo noooo! N nooo no noooooooo no

as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. For all that, I would yet
no nooo n nooooo no nooo noooooo no noo noooo. Noo noo nooo, N noooo noo

ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup! Oh, oh! oh, oh! thou
nooo noooooo nooo no, noooo no noo nooo noo noo! No, no! no, no! nooo

grinning whale, but there'll be plenty of gulping soon! Why fly ye
nooooooo noooo, noo noooo'no no nooooo no noooooo nooo! Noo noo no

not, O Ahab! For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in
noo, N Nooo! Noo no, noo noooo noo nooooo no no; noo Noooo noo no

his drawers! A most mouldy and over salted death, though;--cherries!
noo noooooo! N nooo nooooo noo nooo nooooo noooo, nooooo;--nooooooo!

cherries! cherries! Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!"
nooooooo! nooooooo! No, Noooo, noo noo noo nooooo noo no noo!"




"Cherries? I only wish that we were where they grow. Oh, Stubb, I hope
"Nooooooo? N nooo nooo nooo no nooo noooo nooo nooo. No, Noooo, N nooo

my poor mother's drawn my part-pay ere this; if not, few coppers will
no nooo nooooo'n noooo no nooo-noo noo nooo; no noo, noo noooooo nooo

now come to her, for the voyage is up."
noo nooo no noo, noo noo nooooo no no."




From the ship's bows, nearly all the seamen now hung inactive; hammers,
Nooo noo nooo'n nooo, nooooo noo noo nooooo noo nooo nooooooo; noooooo,

bits of plank, lances, and harpoons, mechanically retained in their
nooo no noooo, nooooo, noo nooooooo, nooooooooooo nooooooo no noooo

hands, just as they had darted from their various employments; all their
noooo, nooo no nooo noo nooooo nooo noooo noooooo noooooooooo; noo noooo

enchanted eyes intent upon the whale, which from side to side strangely
noooooooo nooo nooooo nooo noo noooo, noooo nooo nooo no nooo noooooooo

vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad band of overspreading
noooooooo noo nooooooooooooo nooo, nooo n noooo nooo no noooooooooooo

semicircular foam before him as he rushed. Retribution, swift vengeance,
nooooooooooo nooo nooooo noo no no nooooo. Noooooooooo, noooo noooooooo,

eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite of all that mortal
noooooo nooooo nooo no noo noooo nooooo, noo noooo no noo nooo nooooo

man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship's
noo noooo no, noo noooo noooo nooooooo no noo nooooooo noooo noo nooo'n

starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled. Some fell flat upon their
noooooooo noo, nooo noo noo noooooo nooooo. Nooo nooo nooo nooo noooo

faces. Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the harpooneers aloft shook
noooo. Nooo noooooooo nooooo, noo noooo no noo noooooooooo noooo noooo

on their bull-like necks. Through the breach, they heard the waters
no noooo nooo-nooo noooo. Noooooo noo nooooo, nooo noooo noo nooooo

pour, as mountain torrents down a flume.
nooo, no nooooooo nooooooo nooo n noooo.




"The ship! The hearse!--the second hearse!" cried Ahab from the boat;
"Noo nooo! Noo nooooo!--noo nooooo nooooo!" noooo Nooo nooo noo nooo;

"its wood could only be American!"
"noo nooo noooo nooo no Nooooooo!"




Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its
Nooooo noooooo noo nooooooo nooo, noo noooo noo noooooooo noooo noo

keel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far
nooo; noo noooooo noooo noooo, noooooo nooo no noo noooooo noooo, noo

off the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab's boat, where, for a
noo noo noooo noo, noo nooooo n noo noooo no Nooo'n nooo, noooo, noo n

time, he lay quiescent.
nooo, no noo noooooooo.




"I turn my body from the sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy hammer.
"N nooo no nooo nooo noo noo. Nooo no, Nooooooo! noo no nooo noo nooooo.

Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; and only
No! no noooo noooooooooooo nooooo no nooo; nooo noooooooo nooo; noo nooo

god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and Pole-pointed
noo-noooooo nooo; nooo nooo nooo, noo noooooo nooo, noo Nooo-noooooo

prow,--death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and without me? Am I
nooo,--noooo-nooooooo nooo! nooo no nooo nooooo, noo noooooo no? No N

cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains? Oh,
noo noo nooo noo nooo nooo noooo no noooooo noooooooooo nooooooo? No,

lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now I feel my topmost greatness lies in
nooooo noooo no nooooo nooo! No, noo N nooo no noooooo noooooooo nooo no

my topmost grief. Ho, ho! from all your furthest bounds, pour ye now in,
no noooooo noooo. No, no! nooo noo nooo nooooooo nooooo, nooo no noo no,

ye bold billows of my whole foregone life, and top this one piled comber
no nooo noooooo no no noooo nooooooo nooo, noo noo nooo noo noooo nooooo

of my death! Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering
no no noooo! Noooooo nooo N nooo, nooo noo-nooooooooo noo nooooooooooo

whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at
noooo; no noo nooo N noooooo nooo nooo; nooo nooo'n noooo N nooo no

thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee. Sink all coffins
nooo; noo nooo'n nooo N nooo no nooo nooooo no nooo. Nooo noo noooooo

and all hearses to one common pool! and since neither can be mine, let
noo noo noooooo no noo nooooo nooo! noo noooo noooooo noo no nooo, noo

me then tow to pieces, while still chasing thee, though tied to thee,
no nooo noo no nooooo, noooo noooo noooooo nooo, nooooo nooo no nooo,

thou damned whale! THUS, I give up the spear!"
nooo nooooo noooo! NOOO, N nooo no noo noooo!"




The harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with igniting
Noo noooooo noo nooooo; noo nooooooo noooo nooo noooooo; nooo nooooooo

velocity the line ran through the grooves;--ran foul. Ahab stooped to
nooooooo noo nooo noo noooooo noo noooooo;--noo nooo. Nooo noooooo no

clear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the
noooo no; no noo noooo no; noo noo nooooo nooo nooooo noo noooo noo

neck, and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he was
nooo, noo noooooooooo no Noooooo noooo noooooooo noooo nooooo, no noo

shot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. Next instant, the
nooo noo no noo nooo, noo noo nooo nooo no noo nooo. Nooo noooooo, noo

heavy eye-splice in the rope's final end flew out of the stark-empty
noooo noo-nooooo no noo nooo'n noooo noo nooo noo no noo noooo-noooo

tub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its
noo, noooooo nooo no noooooo, noo noooooo noo noo, noooooooooo no noo

depths.
nooooo.




For an instant, the tranced boat's crew stood still; then turned. "The
Noo no noooooo, noo noooooo nooo'n nooo noooo noooo; nooo nooooo. "Noo

ship? Great God, where is the ship?" Soon they through dim, bewildering
nooo? Noooo Noo, noooo no noo nooo?" Nooo nooo noooooo noo, noooooooooo

mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous Fata Morgana;
noooooo noo noo nooooooo nooooo noooooo, no no noo noooooo Nooo Noooooo;

only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by infatuation, or
nooo noo noooooooo noooo noo no noooo; noooo noooo no noooooooooo, no

fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches, the pagan harpooneers
nooooooo, no nooo, no noooo nooo noooo noooooo, noo noooo noooooooooo

still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea. And now, concentric
noooo nooooooooo noooo noooooo nooooooo no noo noo. Noo noo, nooooooooo

circles seized the lone boat itself, and all its crew, and each floating
noooooo nooooo noo nooo nooo nooooo, noo noo noo nooo, noo nooo nooooooo

oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning, animate and inanimate, all
noo, noo noooo noooo-nooo, noo nooooooo, noooooo noo noooooooo, noo

round and round in one vortex, carried the smallest chip of the Pequod
noooo noo noooo no noo nooooo, noooooo noo nooooooo nooo no noo Nooooo

out of sight.
noo no noooo.




But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the
Noo no noo nooo noooooooo noooooooooooo nooooo nooooooooo nooo noo

sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few inches of the
nooooo nooo no noo Nooooo no noo nooooooo, noooooo n noo nooooo no noo

erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag,
noooo nooo noo noooooo, nooooooo nooo nooo noooooooo noooo no noo nooo,

which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroying
noooo nooooo noooooooo, nooo nooooooo noooooooooo, nooo noo nooooooooo

billows they almost touched;--at that instant, a red arm and a hammer
noooooo nooo nooooo noooooo;--no nooo noooooo, n noo noo noo n nooooo

hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing
noooooo nooooooooo nooooooo no noo nooo noo, no noo noo no noooooo

the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that
noo nooo nooooo noo noo nooooo no noo noooooooo nooo. N noo-nooo nooo

tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home
nooooooooo noo nooooooo noo nooo-noooo noooooooo nooo noo noooooo nooo

among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there;
noooo noo noooo, noooooo no noo nooo, noo noooooooooo Nooooooo noooo;

this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the
nooo nooo noo noooooo no noooooooo noo noooo nooooooooo nooo noooooo noo

hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill,
nooooo noo noo nooo; noo nooooooooooooo noooooo nooo nooooooo nooooo,

the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his hammer frozen
noo noooooooo nooooo noooooo, no noo noooo-nooo, nooo noo nooooo nooooo

there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelic shrieks, and his
noooo; noo no noo nooo no nooooo, nooo noooooooooo noooooo, noo noo

imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive form folded in the
nooooooo nooo nooooo noooooo, noo noo noooo noooooo nooo nooooo no noo

flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, like Satan, would not sink
nooo no Nooo, nooo nooo nooo noo nooo, noooo, nooo Noooo, noooo noo nooo

to hell till she had dragged a living part of heaven along with her, and
no nooo nooo noo noo noooooo n nooooo nooo no nooooo noooo nooo noo, noo

helmeted herself with it.
nooooooo noooooo nooo no.




Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen white
Noo noooo noooo nooo noooooooo nooo noo noo noooooo nooo; n nooooo noooo

surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the great
nooo nooo noooooo noo noooo noooo; nooo noo noooooooo, noo noo noooo

shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.
nooooo no noo noo nooooo no no no nooooo nooo nooooooo noooo noo.













Epilogue
Nooooooo




"AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE" Job.
"NOO N NOOO NO NOOOOOO NOOOO NO NOOO NOOO" Noo.




The drama's done. Why then here does any one step forth?--Because one
Noo noooo'n nooo. Noo nooo nooo nooo noo noo nooo noooo?--Noooooo noo

did survive the wreck.
noo noooooo noo noooo.




It so chanced, that after the Parsee's disappearance, I was he whom the
No no noooooo, nooo noooo noo Nooooo'n noooooooooooo, N noo no nooo noo

Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab's bowsman, when that bowsman
Noooo nooooooo no nooo noo noooo no Nooo'n noooooo, nooo nooo noooooo

assumed the vacant post; the same, who, when on the last day the three
noooooo noo nooooo nooo; noo nooo, noo, nooo no noo nooo noo noo noooo

men were tossed from out of the rocking boat, was dropped astern. So,
noo nooo nooooo nooo noo no noo noooooo nooo, noo noooooo nooooo. No,

floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full sight of it,
nooooooo no noo nooooo no noo noooooo noooo, noo no nooo noooo no no,

when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I was then,
nooo noo noooooooo noooooo no noo nooo nooo noooooo no, N noo nooo,

but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex. When I reached it, it had
noo nooooo, noooo noooooo noo noooooo nooooo. Nooo N noooooo no, no noo

subsided to a creamy pool. Round and round, then, and ever contracting
nooooooo no n nooooo nooo. Noooo noo noooo, nooo, noo nooo noooooooooo

towards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheeling
noooooo noo nooooo-nooo noooo nooooo no noo nooo no nooo nooooo nooooooo

circle, like another Ixion I did revolve. Till, gaining that vital
nooooo, nooo noooooo Noooo N noo noooooo. Nooo, noooooo nooo noooo

centre, the black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated by reason of
nooooo, noo noooo nooooo nooooo noooo; noo noo, noooooooo no nooooo no

its cunning spring, and, owing to its great buoyancy, rising with great
noo noooooo nooooo, noo, noooo no noo noooo nooooooo, nooooo nooo noooo

force, the coffin life-buoy shot lengthwise from the sea, fell over, and
noooo, noo nooooo nooo-nooo nooo nooooooooo nooo noo noo, nooo nooo, noo

floated by my side. Buoyed up by that coffin, for almost one whole day
noooooo no no nooo. Nooooo no no nooo nooooo, noo nooooo noo noooo noo

and night, I floated on a soft and dirgelike main. The unharming sharks,
noo noooo, N noooooo no n nooo noo noooooooo nooo. Noo noooooooo nooooo,

they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths; the savage sea-hawks
nooo nooooo no no no nooo nooooooo no noooo nooooo; noo nooooo noo-noooo

sailed with sheathed beaks. On the second day, a sail drew near, nearer,
nooooo nooo nooooooo noooo. No noo nooooo noo, n nooo nooo nooo, nooooo,

and picked me up at last. It was the devious-cruising Rachel, that in
noo nooooo no no no nooo. No noo noo noooooo-nooooooo Nooooo, nooo no

her retracing search after her missing children, only found another
noo noooooooo nooooo noooo noo noooooo nooooooo, nooo noooo noooooo

orphan.
nooooo.
















End of Project Gutenberg's Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville
Noo no Noooooo Noooooooo'n Nooo Nooo; no Noo Noooo, no Nooooo Nooooooo




*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE ***
*** NOO NO NOOO NOOOOOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOO NOOO NOOO; NO NOO NOOOO ***




***** This file should be named 2701.txt or 2701.zip *****
***** Nooo nooo nooooo no noooo nooo.noo no nooo.noo *****

This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
Nooo noo noo nooooooooo noooo no noooooo noooooo nooo no noooo no:

        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/7/0/2701/
        nooo://noo.noooooooo.noo/n/n/n/nooo/




Produced by Daniel Lazarus and Jonesey
Nooooooo no Nooooo Noooooo noo Noooooo




Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
Noooooo nooooooo nooo noooooo noo nooooooo noo--noo noo nooooooo

will be renamed.
nooo no noooooo.




Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
Nooooooo noo noooo nooo nooooo nooooo noooo nooooooo noooo nooo no

one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
noo nooo n Nooooo Nooooo noooooooo no noooo noooo, no noo Nooooooooo

(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
(noo noo!) noo nooo noo nooooooooo no no noo Nooooo Nooooo noooooo

permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
nooooooooo noo noooooo nooooo noooooooo noooooooo.  Noooooo noooo,

set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
noo noooo no noo Noooooo Noooo no Noo nooo no nooo noooooo, noooo no

copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
noooooo noo nooooooooooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo noooo no

protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
noooooo noo NOOOOOO NOOOOOOOO-no noooooo noo noooooooo.  Noooooo

Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
Noooooooo no n nooooooooo noooooooo, noo noo noo no nooo no noo

charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
nooooo noo noo nOoooo, nooooo noo noooooo nooooooo nooooooooo.  No noo

do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
no noo nooooo nooooooo noo nooooo no nooo nOooo, noooooooo nooo noo

rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
noooo no nooo nooo.  Noo noo noo nooo nOooo noo nooooo noo noooooo

such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
nooo no nooooooo no nooooooooo noooo, noooooo, nooooooooooo noo

research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
nooooooo.  Nooo noo no nooooooo noo noooooo noo noooo nooo--noo noo no

practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
noooooooooo NOOOOOOO nooo nooooo nooooo nOoooo.  Nooooooooooooo no

subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
noooooo no noo noooooooo noooooo, nooooooooo nooooooooo

redistribution.
nooooooooooooo.










*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
*** NOOOO: NOOO NOOOOOO ***




THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
NOO NOOO NOOOOOO NOOOOOOOO NOOOOOO

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
NOOOOO NOOO NOOO NOOOOO NOO NOOOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOO NOOO




To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
No noooooo noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no noooooo no noooooooo noo nooo

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
nooooooooooo no nooooooooo noooo, no noooo no nooooooooooo nooo nooo

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
(no noo noooo nooo nooooooooo no noo noo nooo noo nooooo "Noooooo

Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Noooooooo"), noo noooo no nooooo nooo noo noo noooo no noo Nooo Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
Noooooooo-no Noooooo (noooooooo nooo nooo nooo no nooooo no

http://gutenberg.org/license).
nooo://noooooooo.noo/noooooo).







Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
Noooooo n.  Noooooo Noooo no Noo noo Nooooooooooooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no

electronic works
nooooooooo noooo




1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
n.N.  No noooooo no noooo noo nooo no nooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
nooooooooo nooo, noo nooooooo nooo noo nooo nooo, nooooooooo, noooo no

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
noo nooooo noo noo noooo no nooo noooooo noo nooooooooooo nooooooo

(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
(noooooooo/noooooooo) noooooooo.  No noo no noo noooo no noooo no noo

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
noo noooo no nooo noooooooo, noo nooo noooo noooo noo nooooo no noooooo

all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
noo nooooo no Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo noooo no nooo nooooooooo.

If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
No noo nooo n noo noo noooooooo n nooo no no nooooo no n Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Noooooooo-no nooooooooo nooo noo noo no noo noooo no no noooo no noo

terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
noooo no nooo noooooooo, noo noo nooooo n nooooo nooo noo nooooo no

entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
nooooo no nooo noo nooo noo noo no noo noooo no noooooooo n.N.n.




1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
n.N.  "Noooooo Noooooooo" no n nooooooooo noooooooo.  No noo nooo no

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
nooo no no nooooooooo no noo noo nooo no nooooooooo nooo no nooooo noo

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
noooo no no noooo no noo noooo no nooo noooooooo.  Noooo noo n noo

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
nooooo nooo noo noo no nooo nooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo noooo

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
nooo noooooo noooooooo nooo noo nooo noooo no nooo noooooooo.  Noo

paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
noooooooo n.N noooo.  Noooo noo n noo no nooooo noo noo no nooo Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Noooooooo-no nooooooooo noooo no noo nooooo noo noooo no nooo noooooooo

and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
noo nooo nooooooo nooo nooooo nooooo no Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo

works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
noooo.  Noo noooooooo n.N noooo.




1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
n.N.  Noo Noooooo Noooooooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo ("noo Nooooooooo"

or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
no NOOOO), nooo n noooooooooo noooooooo no noo nooooooooo no Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Noooooooo-no nooooooooo noooo.  Nooooo noo noo nooooooooo noooo no noo

collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
nooooooooo noo no noo nooooo nooooo no noo Nooooo Nooooo.  No no

individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
nooooooooo nooo no no noo nooooo nooooo no noo Nooooo Nooooo noo noo noo

located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
noooooo no noo Nooooo Nooooo, no no noo noooo n noooo no noooooo noo nooo

copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
noooooo, nooooooooooo, nooooooooo, nooooooooo no nooooooo nooooooooo

works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
noooo noooo no noo nooo no nooo no noo nooooooooo no Noooooo Noooooooo

are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
noo noooooo.  No nooooo, no nooo nooo noo nooo noooooo noo Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
Noooooooo-no noooooo no noooooooo nooo nooooo no nooooooooo noooo no

freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
nooooo noooooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no noooo no nooooooooo nooo noo noooo no

this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
nooo noooooooo noo noooooo noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooo nooooooooo nooo

the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
noo nooo.  Noo noo nooooo nooooo nooo noo noooo no nooo noooooooo no

keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
noooooo nooo nooo no noo nooo nooooo nooo noo nooooooo nooo Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
Noooooooo-no Noooooo nooo noo noooo no noooooo nooooo nooo nooooo.




1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
n.N.  Noo noooooooo nooo no noo noooo noooo noo noo noooooo nooo nooooo

what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
nooo noo noo no nooo nooo nooo.  Noooooooo nooo no nooo noooooooo noo no

a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
n nooooooo noooo no nooooo.  No noo noo noooooo noo Nooooo Nooooo, noooo

the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
noo nooo no nooo noooooo no nooooooo no noo noooo no nooo noooooooo

before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
nooooo noooooooooo, noooooo, nooooooooo, nooooooooo, nooooooooooo no

creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
nooooooo nooooooooo noooo noooo no nooo nooo no noo noooo Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
Noooooooo-no nooo.  Noo Nooooooooo noooo no noooooooooooooo nooooooooo

the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
noo noooooooo nooooo no noo nooo no noo noooooo noooooo noo Nooooo

States.
Nooooo.




1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
n.N.  Nooooo noo nooo noooooo noo nooooooooo no Noooooo Noooooooo:




1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
n.N.n.  Noo noooooooo nooooooo, nooo nooooo noooo no, no noooo noooooooo

access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
nooooo no, noo nooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no Noooooo nooo nooooo noooooooooo

whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
nooooooo noo nooo no n Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooo (noo nooo no noooo noo

phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
nooooo "Noooooo Noooooooo" noooooo, no nooo noooo noo nooooo "Noooooo

Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
Noooooooo" no nooooooooo) no nooooooo, noooooooo, noooooooo, nooooo,

copied or distributed:
nooooo no noooooooooo:




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Nooo nOooo no noo noo noo no nooooo nooooooo no no nooo noo nooo

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
nooooo no nooooooooooo nooooooooo.  Noo noo nooo no, nooo no nooo no

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
no-noo no noooo noo noooo no noo Noooooo Noooooooo Noooooo nooooooo

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
nooo nooo nOooo no nooooo no noo.noooooooo.noo




1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
n.N.n.  No no nooooooooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo nooo no noooooo

from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
nooo noo nooooo nooooo (nooo noo noooooo n nooooo nooooooooo nooo no no

posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
nooooo nooo nooooooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo), noo nooo noo no nooooo

and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
noo noooooooooo no nooooo no noo Nooooo Nooooo noooooo nooooo noo nooo

or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
no noooooo.  No noo noo nooooooooooooo no noooooooo nooooo no n nooo

with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
nooo noo nooooo "Noooooo Noooooooo" nooooooooo nooo no noooooooo no noo

work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
nooo, noo nooo nooooo nooooo nooo noo nooooooooooo no nooooooooo n.N.n

through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
noooooo n.N.n no nooooo nooooooooo noo noo noo no noo nooo noo noo

Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
Noooooo Noooooooo-no noooooooo no noo noooo no nooooooooo n.N.n no

1.E.9.
n.N.n.




1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
n.N.n.  No no nooooooooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo nooo no nooooo

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
nooo noo nooooooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo, nooo noo noo nooooooooooo

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
nooo nooooo nooo nooo nooooooooo n.N.n noooooo n.N.n noo noo nooooooooo

terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
noooo noooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo.  Nooooooooo noooo nooo no nooooo

to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
no noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no Noooooo noo noo noooo nooooo nooo noo

permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
nooooooooo no noo noooooooo nooooo noooo no noo noooooooo no nooo nooo.




1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
n.N.n.  No noo nooooo no nooooo no nooooo noo nooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
Noooooo noooo nooo nooo nooo, no noo noooo nooooooooo n nooo no nooo

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
nooo no noo noooo nooo nooooooooo nooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no.




1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
n.N.n.  No noo nooo, noooooo, noooooo, nooooooooo no nooooooooooo nooo

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
nooooooooo nooo, no noo nooo no nooo nooooooooo nooo, noooooo

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
noooooooooo nooooooooo noo nooooooo noo noooo no noooooooo n.N.n nooo

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
nooooo noooo no noooooooo nooooo no noo nooo noooo no noo Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm License.
Noooooooo-no Noooooo.




1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
n.N.n.  Noo noo noooooo no noo nooooooooo nooo nooo no noo nooooo,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
nooooooooo, nooooo no, nooooooooooooo no noooooooooo nooo, noooooooo noo

word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
nooo nooooooooo no noooooooo nooo.  Noooooo, no noo noooooo nooooo no no

distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
nooooooooo nooooo no n Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooo no n nooooo noooo nooo

"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
"Noooo Noooooo NOOOO" no noooo nooooo nooo no noo nooooooo noooooo

posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
nooooo no noo nooooooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no noo nooo (noo.noooooooo.noo),

you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
noo nooo, no no nooooooooo nooo, noo no noooooo no noo nooo, noooooo n

copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
nooo, n noooo no noooooooo n nooo, no n noooo no noooooooo n nooo nooo

request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
noooooo, no noo nooo no noo nooooooo "Noooo Noooooo NOOOO" no noooo

form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
nooo.  Noo noooooooo nooooo nooo noooooo noo nooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no

License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
Noooooo no noooooooo no noooooooo n.N.n.




1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
n.N.n.  No noo nooooo n noo noo nooooo no, noooooo, nooooooooo,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
nooooooooo, noooooo no nooooooooooo noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no noooo

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
nooooo noo nooooo nooo noooooooo n.N.n no n.N.n.




1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
n.N.n.  Noo noo nooooo n nooooooooo noo noo nooooo no no noooooooo

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
nooooo no no nooooooooooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo noooo nooooooo

that
nooo




- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
- Noo noo n noooooo noo no no% no noo noooo noooooo noo nooooo nooo

     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     noo noo no Noooooo Noooooooo-no noooo nooooooooo noooo noo nooooo

     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     noo noooooo noo no noooooooo nooo nooooooooo noooo.  Noo noo no

     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     nooo no noo noooo no noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no noooooooo, noo no

     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     noo nooooo no nooooo noooooooo noooo nooo noooooooo no noo

     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     Noooooo Noooooooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo.  Noooooo nooooooo

     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     nooo no nooo nooooo no nooo noooooooo nooo nooo no noooo noo

     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     noooooo (no noo noooooo nooooooo no noooooo) nooo nooooooo noo

     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     noooooo.  Noooooo nooooooo nooooo no noooooo nooooo no nooo noo

     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     nooo no noo Noooooo Noooooooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo no noo

     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     noooooo noooooooo no Noooooo n, "Noooooooooo noooo noooooooo no

     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
     noo Noooooo Noooooooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo."




- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
- Noo noooooo n nooo nooooo no noo noooo nooo no n nooo noo nooooooo

     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     noo no noooooo (no no n-nooo) nooooo no nooo no noooooo nooo n/no

     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     nooo noo noooo no noo noooo no noo nooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no

     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     Noooooo.  Noo nooo noooooo nooo n nooo no nooooo no

     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     noooooo noo nooooo no noo noooo noooooooo no n nooooooo nooooo

     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     noo noooooooooo noo noo no noo noo nooooo no noooo nooooo no

     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     Noooooo Noooooooo-no noooo.




- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
- Noo noooooo, no nooooooooo nooo noooooooo n.N.n, n nooo nooooo no noo

     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     noooo nooo noo n nooo no n noooooooooo nooo, no n nooooo no noo

     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     nooooooooo nooo no nooooooooo noo nooooooo no noo nooooo no nooo

     of receipt of the work.
     no noooooo no noo nooo.




- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
- Noo nooooo nooo noo noooo noooo no nooo noooooooo noo nooo

     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     nooooooooooo no Noooooo Noooooooo-no noooo.




1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
n.N.n.  No noo nooo no nooooo n noo no nooooooooo n Noooooo Noooooooo-no

electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
nooooooooo nooo no noooo no noooo no noooooooo noooo nooo noo noo

forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
noooo no nooo noooooooo, noo nooo nooooo nooooooooo no noooooo nooo

both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
nooo noo Noooooo Noooooooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo noo Noooooo

Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Nooo, noo noooo no noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no noooooooo.  Noooooo noo

Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
Nooooooooo no noo noooo no Noooooo n noooo.




1.F.
n.N.




1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
n.N.n.  Noooooo Noooooooo nooooooooo noo noooooooo nooooo nooooooooooo

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
nooooo no nooooooo, no noooooooo nooooooo no, nooooooooo noo noooooooo

public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
nooooo nooooo noooo no nooooooo noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no

collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
nooooooooo.  Noooooo noooo noooooo, Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo

works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
noooo, noo noo nooooo no noooo nooo noo no nooooo, noo noooooo

"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
"Noooooo," nooo no, noo noo noooooo no, nooooooooo, nooooooooo no

corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
noooooo nooo, noooooooooooo nooooo, n noooooooo no noooo nooooooooooo

property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
nooooooo nooooooooooo, n noooooooo no noooooo nooo no noooo nooooo, n

computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
nooooooo noooo, no nooooooo noooo nooo nooooo no nooooo no nooo no

your equipment.
nooo noooooooo.




1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
n.N.n.  NOOOOOO NOOOOOOO, NOOOOOOOOO NO NOOOOOO - Nooooo noo noo "Noooo

of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
no Noooooooooo no Nooooo" noooooooo no noooooooo n.N.n, noo Noooooo

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Noooooooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo, noo noooo no noo Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Noooooooo-no noooooooo, noo noo noooo noooo nooooooooooo n Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Noooooooo-no nooooooooo nooo noooo nooo noooooooo, nooooooo noo

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
noooooooo no noo noo noooooo, noooo noo nooooooo, noooooooo noooo

fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
nooo.  NOO NOOOO NOOO NOO NOOO NO NOOOOOOO NOO NOOOOOOOOO, NOOOOO

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
NOOOOOOOO, NOOOOO NO NOOOOOOO NO NOOOOO NO NOOOOOOO NOOOOO NOOOO

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
NOOOOOOO NO NOOOOOOOO NO.  NOO NOOOO NOOO NOO NOOOOOOOOO, NOO

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
NOOOOOOOO NOOOO, NOO NOO NOOOOOOOOOO NOOOO NOOO NOOOOOOOO NOOO NOO NO

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
NOOOOO NO NOO NOO NOOOOO, NOOOOO, NOOOOOOO, NOOOOOOOOOOOO, NOOOOOOO NO

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
NOOOOOOOOO NOOOOOO NOOO NO NOO NOOO NOOOOO NO NOO NOOOOOOOOOO NO NOOO

DAMAGE.
NOOOOO.




1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
n.N.n.  NOOOOOO NOOOO NO NOOOOOOOOOO NO NOOOOO - No noo nooooooo n

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
nooooo no nooo nooooooooo nooo nooooo no nooo no noooooooo no, noo noo

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
noooooo n nooooo no noo noooo (no noo) noo nooo noo no no noooooo n

written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
noooooo noooooooooo no noo nooooo noo nooooooo noo nooo nooo.  No noo

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
nooooooo noo nooo no n nooooooo nooooo, noo nooo nooooo noo nooooo nooo

your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
nooo noooooo noooooooooo.  Noo nooooo no nooooo nooo nooooooo noo nooo

the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
noo noooooooo nooo noo noooo no noooooo n noooooooooo nooo no nooo no n

refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
nooooo.  No noo nooooooo noo nooo nooooooooooooo, noo nooooo no nooooo

providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
noooooooo no no noo noo nooooo no nooo noo n nooooo noooooooooo no

receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
noooooo noo nooo nooooooooooooo no nooo no n nooooo.  No noo nooooo nooo

is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
no nooo noooooooo, noo noo nooooo n nooooo no noooooo noooooo noooooo

opportunities to fix the problem.
noooooooooooo no noo noo noooooo.




1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
n.N.n.  Nooooo noo noo noooooo noooo no noooooooooo no nooooo noo noooo

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
no noooooooo n.N.n, nooo nooo no nooooooo no noo 'NO-NO' NOOO NO NOOOO

WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
NOOOOOOOOO NO NOO NOOO, NOOOOOO NO NOOOOOO, NOOOOOOOO NOO NOO NOOOOOO NO

WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
NOOOOOOOOO NO NOOOOOOOOOOOOOO NO NOOOOOO NOO NOO NOOOOOO.




1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
n.N.n.  Nooo nooooo no noo noooo noooooooooo no noooooo noooooo

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
nooooooooo no noo noooooooo no nooooooooo no noooooo noooo no noooooo.

If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
No noo nooooooooo no nooooooooo noo noooo no nooo noooooooo nooooooo noo

law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
noo no noo noooo nooooooooo no nooo noooooooo, noo noooooooo noooo no

interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
noooooooooo no nooo noo noooooo nooooooooo no nooooooooo noooooooo no

the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
noo nooooooooo noooo noo.  Noo nooooooooo no nooooooooooooooo no noo

provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
noooooooo no nooo noooooooo noooo noo nooo noo noooooooo nooooooooo.




1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
n.N.n.  NOOOOOOOO - Noo noooo no noooooooo noo nooo noo Nooooooooo, noo

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
noooooooo noooo, noo noooo no nooooooo no noo Nooooooooo, nooooo

providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
noooooooo nooooo no Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo noooo no nooooooooo

with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
nooo nooo noooooooo, noo noo nooooooooo nooooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo,

promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
noooooooo noo nooooooooooo no Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo noooo,

harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
nooooooo nooo noo noooooooo, noooo noo nooooooo, noooooooo noooo nooo,

that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
nooo noooo nooooooo no nooooooooo nooo noo no noo noooooooo noooo noo no

or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
no noooo no noooo: (n) nooooooooooo no nooo no noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no

work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
nooo, (n) nooooooooo, nooooooooooo, no noooooooo no noooooooo no noo

Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooo, noo (n) noo Nooooo noo noooo.







Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Noooooo  n.  Noooooooooo noooo noo Noooooo no Noooooo Noooooooo-no




Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Noooooo Noooooooo-no no nooooooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooooo no

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
nooooooooo noooo no noooooo nooooooo no noo nooooo noooooo no noooooooo

including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
noooooooo nooooooo, noo, nooooo-nooo noo noo noooooooo.  No nooooo

because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
noooooo no noo noooooo no nooooooo no nooooooooo noo noooooooo nooo

people in all walks of life.
nooooo no noo noooo no nooo.




Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
Nooooooooo noo noooooooo noooooo no noooooo nooooooooo nooo noo

assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
nooooooooo nooo nooo, noo nooooooo no nooooooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no'n

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
noooo noo nooooooo nooo noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo nooo

remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
nooooo nooooo noooooooo noo noooooooooo no nooo.  No nooo, noo Noooooo

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
Noooooooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo noo noooooo no noooooo n nooooo

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
noo noooooooo nooooo noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no noo nooooo noooooooooo.

To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
No noooo nooo noooo noo Noooooo Noooooooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo

and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
noo noo nooo noooooo noo noooooooo noo nooo, noo Nooooooo n noo n

and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.
noo noo Nooooooooo noo nooo no nooo://noo.noooo.noo.







Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Noooooo n.  Noooooooooo noooo noo Noooooo Noooooooo Nooooooo Noooooo

Foundation
Nooooooooo




The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
Noo Noooooo Noooooooo Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo no n noo nooooo

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
noo(n)(n) noooooooooo noooooooooo noooooooo noooo noo nooo no noo

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
noooo no Noooooooooo noo noooooo noo nooooo nooooo no noo Nooooooo

Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
Noooooo Noooooo.  Noo Nooooooooo'n NOO no noooooo noo nooooooooooooo

number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
nooooo no no-noooooo.  Noo noo(n)(n) nooooo no nooooo no

http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
nooo://noooo.noo/noooooooooo.  Noooooooooooo no noo Noooooo Noooooooo

Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo noo noo nooooooooo no noo nooo nooooo

permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
noooooooo no N.N. noooooo nooo noo nooo noooo'n nooo.




The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Noo Nooooooooo'n noooooooo nooooo no noooooo no nooo Noooo No. N.

Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
Noooooooo, NO, noooo., noo noo nooooooooo noo noooooooo noo noooooooo

throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
nooooooooo nooooooo noooooooo.  Noo nooooooo nooooo no noooooo no

809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
noo Noooo nooo Nooo, Nooo Nooo Nooo, NO noooo, (noo) noo-nooo, noooo

business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
nooooooo@noooo.noo.  Noooo noooooo noooo noo no no nooo noooooo

information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
noooooooooo noo no noooo no noo Nooooooooo'n noo nooo noo nooooooo

page at http://pglaf.org
nooo no nooo://noooo.noo




For additional contact information:
Noo nooooooooo noooooo noooooooooo:

     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     No. Noooooo N. Noooo

     Chief Executive and Director
     Noooo Noooooooo noo Nooooooo

     gbnewby@pglaf.org
     noooooo@noooo.noo







Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Noooooo n.  Noooooooooo noooo Noooooooo no noo Noooooo Noooooooo

Literary Archive Foundation
Nooooooo Noooooo Nooooooooo




Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
Noooooo Noooooooo-no noooooo nooo noo nooooo noooooo noooooo nooo

spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
nooooo nooooo noooooo noo noooooooo no noooo noo noo noooooo no

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
nooooooooo noo nooooo no nooooo nooooo noo nooooooo noooo nooo noo no

freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
nooooo noooooooooo no noooooo nooooooo nooo nooooooooo no noo nooooo

array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
noooo no noooooooo noooooooo nooooooo noooooooo.  Nooo noooo noooooooo

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
($n no $n,noo) noo nooooooooooo noooooooo no noooooooooo noo nooooo

status with the IRS.
nooooo nooo noo NOO.




The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
Noo Nooooooooo no noooooooo no noooooooo nooo noo nooo nooooooooo

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
noooooooo noo nooooooooo noooooooo no noo no nooooo no noo Nooooo

States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
Nooooo.  Nooooooooo nooooooooooo noo noo noooooo noo no noooo n

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
nooooooooooo nooooo, nooo noooooooo noo nooo nooo no nooo noo nooo no

with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
nooo noooo nooooooooooo.  No no noo noooooo noooooooo no noooooooo

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
noooo no nooo noo nooooooo noooooo nooooooooooo no nooooooooo.  No

SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
NOOO NOOOOOOOO no noooooooo noo nooooo no nooooooooo noo noo

particular state visit http://pglaf.org
nooooooooo noooo noooo nooo://noooo.noo




While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
Noooo no nooooo noo no noo noooooo noooooooooooo nooo nooooo noooo no

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
nooo noo noo noo nooooooooooo nooooooooooo, no nooo no no noooooooooo

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
noooooo noooooooo noooooooooo noooooooo nooo nooooo no nooo nooooo noo

approach us with offers to donate.
nooooooo no nooo nooooo no nooooo.




International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
Noooooooooooo noooooooo noo nooooooooo nooooooo, noo no nooooo nooo

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
noo nooooooooo nooooooooo noo noooooooo no noooooooo nooooooo nooo

outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
noooooo noo Nooooo Nooooo.  N.N. nooo noooo noooo noo noooo noooo.




Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
Nooooo noooo noo Noooooo Noooooooo Noo noooo noo noooooo nooooooo

methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
noooooo noo noooooooo.  Noooooooo noo nooooooo no n nooooo no noooo

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
nooo noooooooo nooooo, nooooo nooooooo noo nooooo nooo noooooooo.

To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate
No nooooo, nooooo noooo: nooo://noooo.noo/nooooo







Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
Noooooo n.  Noooooo Noooooooooo Noooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no nooooooooo

works.
noooo.




Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Noooooooo Noooooo N. Nooo no noo nooooooooo no noo Noooooo Noooooooo-no

concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
noooooo no n noooooo no nooooooooo noooo nooo noooo no nooooo nooooo

with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
nooo nooooo.  Noo nooooo noooo, no nooooooo noo noooooooooo Noooooo

Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Noooooooo-no nOoooo nooo nooo n noooo noooooo no noooooooo noooooo.







Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
Noooooo Noooooooo-no nOoooo noo noooo noooooo nooo noooooo noooooo

editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
nooooooo, noo no noooo noo noooooooo no Nooooo Nooooo no noo N.N.

unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
nooooo n noooooooo nooooo no nooooooo.  Nooo, no no noo noooooooooo

keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
nooo nOoooo no nooooooooo nooo noo nooooooooo noooo noooooo.







Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:
Nooo nooooo noooo no noo Noo nooo noooo noo noo nooo NO nooooo nooooooo:




     http://www.gutenberg.org
     nooo://noo.noooooooo.noo




This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
Nooo Noo nooo nooooooo noooooooooo noooo Noooooo Noooooooo-no,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
noooooooo noo no nooo noooooooo no noo Noooooo Noooooooo Nooooooo

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
Noooooo Nooooooooo, noo no nooo noooooo noo noo nOoooo, noo noo no

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
noooooooo no noo noooo nooooooooo no nooo noooo noo nOoooo.
