
﻿Project Gutenberg's A Pickle For The Knowing Ones, by Lord Timothy Dexter
﻿                 '                               ,                       




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
                                                                

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
                                 .                 ,                

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
  -                                                                

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
                                .         .   







Title: A Pickle For The Knowing Ones
     :                              




Author: Lord Timothy Dexter
      :                    




Release Date: August 12, 2013 [EBook #43453]
            :          ,      [      #     ]




Language: English
        :        







*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A PICKLE FOR THE KNOWING ONES ***
***                                                                     ***













Produced by David Edwards, David Garcia and the Online
                         ,                            

Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
                                     ://   .    .    (    

file was produced from images generously made available
                                                       

by The Internet Archive)
                       )


































A PICKLE FOR THE KNOWING ONES,
                             ,




BY LORD TIMOTHY DEXTER,
                      ,




WITH AN
       




Introductory Preface,
                    ,




BY A DISTINGUISHED CITIZEN OF "OULD NEWBERRY."
                              "             ."




FOURTH EDITION.
              .




  NEWBURYPORT:
             :

  BLANCHARD & SARGENT.
            &        .

  1848.
      .







[Illustration: Lord Dexter and his Dog.]
[            :                        .]













PREFACE.
       .







Timothy Dexter, the author of the following curious and unique production,
              ,                                                          ,

entitled "_A Pickle for the Knowing Ones_," which is here re-printed
         "                               ,"                 -       

verbatim et spellatim from the original edition, was born in Malden,
                                               ,                   ,

January 22, 1747. Having served an apprenticeship with a leather dresser,
          ,     .                                                       ,

he commenced business in Newburyport shortly after he was one and
                                                                 

twenty, and being industrious and economical, he soon found himself
      ,                                     ,                      

in good circumstances. In the year 1770 he married, and receiving a
                     .                            ,                

considerable amount of money with his wife, he was thus put in possession
                                          ,                              

of a moderate fortune. In 1776 he had for one of his apprentices the
                     .                                              

no less eccentric, and afterwards the no less noted Jonathan Plumer,
                 ,                                                 ,

jun., "travelling preacher, physician and poet," as he was accustomed
   ., "                   ,                   ,"                     

to style himself, and of whom we shall hereafter speak. In addition to
                ,                                     .               

his regular business of selling leather breeches, gloves "soutabel for
                                                ,        "            

wimen's ware," &c. he engaged in commercial speculations, and in various
     '      ," & .                                      ,               

kinds of business, and was unusually successful. He traded with merchants
                 ,                             .                         

and speculators in the then Province of Maine, was engaged to some extent
                                             ,                           

in the West India trade. He also purchased a large amount of what were
                       .                                              

called State securities, which were eventually redeemed at prices far
                       ,                                             

exceeding their original cost. Some of his speculations in whalebone
                             .                                      

and warming pans are mentioned by himself on page 23 of this work. Thus
                                                                 .     

in various ways he added to his property, and in a few years he became
                                        ,                             

a wealthy man. With wealth came the desire of distinction, and as his
             .                                           ,           

vanity was inordinate he spared no expence in obtaining the notoriety he
                                                                        

sought. In the first place he purchased an elegant house in High Street,
      .                                                                ,

Newburyport, and embellished it in his peculiar way. Minarets surmounted
           ,                                       .                    

with golden balls were placed on the roof, a large gilt eagle was placed
                                         ,                              

on the top, and a great variety of other ornaments. In front of his house
          ,                                       .                      

and land he caused to be erected between forty and fifty wooden statues,
                                                                       ,

full length and larger than life. The principal arch stood directly in
                                .                                     

front of his door, and on this stood the figures of Washington, Adams
                 ,                                            ,      

and Jefferson. There were also the statues of William Pitt, Franklin,
             .                                            ,         ,

Bonaparte, George IV, Lord Nelson, Gen. Morgan, Cornplanter, an Indian
         ,          ,            ,    .       ,            ,          

Chief, Jack Tar, Traveling Preacher, Maternal Affection, Two Grenadiers,
     ,         ,                   ,                   ,               ,

Four Lions and one Lamb, and conspicuous among them were two images of
                       ,                                              

Dexter himself, one of which held a label with the inscription "_I am the
              ,                                                "         

first in the East, the first in the West, and the greatest philosopher
                 ,                      ,                             

in the Western world_." In order that the interior of his house should
                     ."                                               

correspond with the exterior, the most costly furniture was imported from
                            ,                                            

France, and the walls hung with paintings, brought from Holland and other
      ,                                  ,                               

parts of Europe. A library was also provided, but how large or valuable
               .                            ,                          

we are not able to say. An elegant coach with a span of beautiful cream
                      .                                                

colored horses was procured, on which was painted his coat of arms,
                           ,                                      ,

with the baronial supporters, after the manner of the English nobility.
                            ,                                         .

With this equipage he took the title of Lord Dexter, because, as he said,
                                                   ,        ,           ,

it was "the voice of the people at Large." He was sometimes called
       "                                ."                        

the Marquis of Newburyport. Having completed the embelishments of his
                          .                                          

house and gardens, Lord Dexter busied himself in receiving the visits of
                 ,                                                      

the crowds, who were drawn by curiosity to his house. His gardens were
          ,                                         .                 

thrown open to their inspection, and he was liberal to all. The fame of
                               ,                          .            

his hospitality attracted as many visitors as the fame of his images. To
                                                                    .   

gratify his vanity he selected in imitation of European princes, a poet
                                                               ,       

laureate. This was no other than his former apprentice, Jonathan Plumer,
        .                                             ,                ,

jun., a native of Newbury. They had once been associated as master and
   .,                    .                                            

apprentice, but now stood in the relation of patron and poet. From the
          ,                                                 .         

auto-biography of Plumer a very curious and scarce production of 244
    -                                                               

pages, the following extract is taken, which may serve to give some idea
     ,                               ,                                  

of the versatility of his genius.--"I had," says he, "some practice as
                                .--"     ,"        , "                

a physician, and earned something with my pen, but for several years
           ,                                 ,                      

was obliged chiefly to follow various kinds of business accounted
                                                                 

less honorable, viz: Farming, repeating select passages from authors,
              ,    :        ,                                       ,

selling halibut, sawing wood, selling books and ballads in the streets,
               ,            ,                                         ,

serving as post boy, filling beds with straw and wheeling them to the
                   ,                                                 

owners thereof, collecting rags, &c." He had previously served one or two
              ,                , & ."                                    

campaigns as a soldier, and on his return from the wars he taught school
                      ,                                                 

for some time in New Hampshire. The ballads, which he hawked about, were
                              .            ,                      ,     

generally his own composition. Every horrid accident, bloody murder, a
                             .                      ,              ,  

shipwreck, or any other dreadful catastrophe, was sure to be followed by
         ,                                  ,                           

a statement of the facts, a sermon and a poem. In the capacity of ballad
                        ,                    .                          

maker and monger he attracted the notice of Dexter, in whose service he
                                                  ,                    

entered for a small salary as poet laureate. He wore a livery, consisting
                                           .                 ,           

of a black frock coat, adorned with stars and fringes, a cocked hat
                     ,                               ,             

and black breeches. He was crowned in the garden of his patron with a
                  .                                                  

wreath of parsley, instead of laurel, but the ceremony was interrupted
                 ,                  ,                                 

before its completion by a mob of boys, and both patron and poet put to
                                      ,                                

flight. One specimen of his laudatory verses may be seen on page 29 of
      .                                                               

this work, which will give the reader some idea of his qualifications
         ,                                                           

for the office to which he was elected. How well he was satisfied with
                                      .                               

the praises of the poet we are not informed, but feeling probably that
                                           ,                          

no person but himself could do justice to the ideas, which he wished
                                                   ,                

to present to the public, he commenced writing for the press. Several
                        ,                                   .        

of these effusions were printed in the newspapers.--The larger part
                                                 .--               

of them written at different times are embodied in the present work, a
                                                                   ,  

large edition of which was published by himself and given away. In this
                                                              .        

edition not a stop or a mark was used in any line of his writings, but
                                                                 ,    

in the second edition one entire page was filled with stops and marks,
                                                                     ,

with a recommendation from the author to his readers, to use them where
                                                    ,                  

they were wanted in the work, or in his own language, "to peper and
                            ,                       , "            

soolt it as they pleased." Dexter had two children, Samuel and Nancy,
                        ."                        ,                 ,

neither of whom was distinguished for strength of intellect. The son was
                                                           .            

a dissipated prodigal and died young. The daughter, of whom mention is
                                    .             ,                   

made by the father in the following pages, was married to Abraham Bishop
                                         ,                              

of New Haven, who we are informed treated her with neglect and cruelty.
            ,                                                         .

A divorce followed and she became intemperate, lost what little reason
                                             ,                        

she had, and is still living, a wretched object. Lord Dexter himself,
       ,                    ,                  .                    ,

if we may judge from his own writings and from what we have heard, was
                                                                 ,    

not happy in his domestic relations. He complains much of his wife,
                                   .                              ,

whom he calls the "gost," and charges the cause of his separation
                  "    ,"                                        

from her for thirteen years to his son Bishop. His own temper was
                                             .                   

irascible, and several stories are told of the excesses, into which
         ,                                             ,           

it would sometimes lead him. He ordered his painter, Mr. Babson, to
                           .                       ,   .       ,   

place the word "Constitution" on the scroll in the hand of the figure of
               "            "                                           

Jefferson, which the latter, knowing the artist designed it to represent
         ,                 ,                                            

the Declaration of Independence, refused to do. Dexter was so incensed
                               ,              .                       

by this refusal, that he went into the house, and brought out a pistol,
               ,                            ,                         ,

which he deliberately fired at the painter; but he was a poor shot, and
                                          ;                       ,    

the ball missing its object, entered the side of the house. At another
                           ,                              .           

time, seeing a countryman, as he thought, rather impudently viewing his
    ,                    ,              ,                              

premises, he ordered his son to fire at the stranger. He refused to do so,
        ,                                           .                    ,

when the father threatened to shoot him unless he complied. His son then
                                                          .             

obeyed. The stranger escaped unhurt, but entered a complaint, and Lord
      .                            ,                        ,         

Timothy was, in consequence, sentenced to the house of correction for
           ,               ,                                         

several months. He went thither in his own coach, priding himself
              .                                 ,                

on being the first man who had been to the county house in his own
                                                                  

carriage, drawn by two splendid horses. He soon grew tired, however, of
        ,                             .                   ,        ,   

his confinement, and procured a release, which it was said, cost him a
               ,                       ,                  ,           

thousand dollars. The individual, who exercised most influence over Dexter
                .               ,                                         

was a negro woman, named Lucy Lancaster, or as she was commonly called
                 ,                     ,                              

"Black Luce," a woman of uncommon strength of mind, great shrewdness
"          ,"                                     ,                 

and remarkable for her powers of memory and knowledge of human nature,
                                                                     ,

but as wicked as she was sagacious. She thought him an honest man, and
                                  .                              ,    

not so deficient in intellect as many people supposed, and attributed
                                                     ,               

his eccentricities to an excess of animal spirits.--This was probably to
                                                 .--                    

some extent true, though it is certain that other spirits contributed in
                ,                                                       

no small degree to the excesses of his temper and the peculiarities of
                                                                      

his taste. He was addicted to drunkenness, and with his son and other
         .                               ,                           

companions, kept up his revels in the best apartments of his house,
          ,                                                       ,

by which in a very short time, all his costly furniture was ruined,
                             ,                                    ,

or very much injured.
                    .




"Not insensible that he must share the common lot, Dexter, many years
"                                                ,       ,           

before his death, prepared himself a tomb. It was the basement story of
                ,                        .                             

his summer-house, magnificently fitted, and open to the light of day. His
          -     ,                     ,                             .    

coffin, made of the best mahogany which he could find, superbly lined,
      ,                                              ,               ,

and adorned with silver handles, he kept in a room of the house, and
                               ,                               ,    

took great pleasure in exhibiting it to visitors--at other times it was
                                                --                     

locked up. Soon after his death apparatus was prepared, Dexter got up a
         .                                            ,                

mock funeral, which with all but his family and a few associates was to
            ,                                                          

pass as real. Various people in the town were invited by card, who came
            .                                                ,         

and found the family clad in mourning, and preparations for the funeral
                                     ,                                 

going forward. The burial service was read by a wag, who then pronounced
             .                                     ,                    

a bombastic eulogy upon the deceased. The mourners moved in procession to
                                    .                                    

the tomb in the garden, the coffin was deposited, and they returned to
                      ,                         ,                     

the large hall, where a sumptuous entertainment was provided. While the
              ,                                             .          

feast was going on, a loud noise attracted the guests to the kitchen,
                  ,                                                 ,

where they beheld the arisen Lord caning his wife for not having shed
                                                                     

a tear during the ceremony! He entered the hall with the astonished
                          !                                        

mourners, in high spirits, joined in the rout, threw money from the
        ,                ,                   ,                     

window to the crowd of boys, and expressed his satisfaction with every
                           ,                                          

thing except the indifference of his wife, and the silence of the bells."
                                         ,                             ."




Lord Dexter died at his house, on the 26th of October, 1806, in his 60th
                             ,                       ,     ,            

year, and by direction of the Board of Health, his remains were interred
    ,                                        ,                          

in the common burying place. His grave is marked by a simple stone.
                           .                                      .




The Dexter mansion, is yet standing, and is a very fine tenement, but
                  ,                ,                            ,    

retains few traces of the whims of its late proprietor. Of the images,
                                                      .              ,

upwards of forty in number, only the three Presidents now remain, the
                          ,                                     ,    

others having been cast down by the resistless hand of time. Some of
                                                           .        

them were blown down in the great gale of September, 1815, and were sold
                                                   ,     ,              

at auction.
          .




The cut fronting the Biography gives a very excellent and faithful
                                                                  

representation of Lord Dexter in his walking habits, and the likeness of
                                                   ,                    

the dog is equally perfect. The dog was perfectly black and the skin as
                          .                                            

entirely free from hair as that of an elephant. He differed as much from
                                              .                         

other dogs as did his master and his friend, the poet, differ from other
                                           ,         ,                  

people. The likenesses of all three were drawn with great accuracy by
      .                                                              

James Aiken, Esq. now a resident of Philadelphia, and could the patron
           ,    .                               ,                     

and the poet be seen in proper person, dressed in the costume of that
                                     ,                               

day, they would be objects of great curiosity. But they are gone, and
   ,                                         .                  ,    

of each it may be truly said,
                            ,







  We ne'er shall look upon his like again.
       '                                 .







[Illustration: View of Lord Dexter's Mansion, High Street, Newburyport,
[            :                    '         ,            ,            ,

1806.]
    .]













A PICKLE
        




FOR THE KNOWING ONES.
                    .







To mankind at Large the time is Com at Last the grat day of Regoising
                                                                     

what is that why I will tell you thous three kings is Rased Rased you
                                                                     

meane should know Rased on the first Royal Arch in the world olmost Not
                                                                       

quite but very hiw up upon so thay are good mark to be scene so the
                                                                   

womans Lik to see the frount and all people Loves to see them as the
                                                                    

quakers will Com and peape slyly and feele glad and say houe the doue
                                                                     

frind father Jorge washeton is in the senter king Addoms is at the Rite
                                                                       

hand the present king at the Left hand father gorge with his hat on the
                                                                       

other hats of the middel king with his sword king Addoms with his Cane
                                                                      

in a grand poster Adtetoude turning his fass towards the first king as
                                                                      

if they was on sum politicks king our present king he is stands hearing
                                                                       

being younger and very deafe in short being one grat felosfer Looks well
                                                                        

East & west and North & south deafe & very deafe the god of Natur has dun
     &                &             &                                    

very much for our present king and all our former ones they are all good
                                                                        

I want them to Live for Ever and I beleave thay will it is hard work to
                                                                       

be A king--I say it is hardar than tilling the ground I know it is for I
         --                                                             

find it is hard work to be A Lord I dont desier the sound but to pleas
                                                                      

the peopel at Large Let it gou to brak the way it dus for Asort ment
                                                                    

to help a good Lafe to Cour the sick spleney goutey dul frames Lik my
                                                                     

selfe with the goute and so on make merry a Chealy Christen is for me
                                                                     

only be onnest No matter what they worshep son moune or stars or there
                                                                      

wife or miss if onnest Live forever money wont gitt thous figers so fast
                                                                        

as I wish I have sent to Leg horn for many mr bourr is one Amonks others
                                                                        

I sent in the grand Crecham thous 3 kings Are plane white colow at present
                                                                          

the Royal Arch & figers cost 39 pound wate silver the hiest Councaton
               &                                                     

order in the world so it is sade by the knowing one I have only 4 Lions
                                                                       

& 1 Lam up the spred Eagel has bin up 3 years upon the Coupelay I have 13
&                                                                        

billors front in strat Row for 13 states when we begun 3 in the Rear 15
                                                                       

foot hie 4 more on the grass see 2 the same hath at the Rite of the grand
                                                                         

Arch 2 at the left wing 15 foot hie the Arch 17 foot hie the my hous is
                                                                       

3 sorey upwards of 290 feet round the hous Nater has formed the ground
                                                                      

Eaquel to what you would wish for the Art by man Eaquel to a Solomun
                                                                    

the onerabel Jonathan Jackson one of the first in this Country for tast
                                                                       

borne A grat man by Nater then the best Lurning what sot me fored for
                                                                     

my plan having so gran spot the hool of the world Cant Excead this to
                                                                     

thous that dont know would think I was Like halfe the world A Lier I
                                                                    

have traveled good deale but old steady men sayeth it is the first that
                                                                       

it is the first best in this Contry & others Contrey I tell you this the
                                    &                                   

trouth that None of you grat men wodent be A frunted at my preseadens &
                                                                      &

I spare Now Cost in the work I have the tempel of Reason in my garding
                                                                      

3 years past with a toume under it on the Eage of the grass see it cost
                                                                       

98 gineys besides the Coffen panted whit in side and out side tuched with
                                                                         

green Nobel trimings uncommon Lock so I can tak the kee in side and haye
                                                                        

fier works in the toume pipes and tobacker & A speaking trumpet and &
                                           &                        &

bibel to Read & sum good songs
              &               




What is a presedent answer A king bonne partey the grate has as much
                                                                    

power as A king and ort to have & it is a massey he has for the good of
                                &                                      

mankind he has as much power as Any king for grat ways back there must be
                                                                         

A head sum whare or the peopel is Lost Lik wild gees when thay Lous the
                                                                       

gander two Leged want A head if fore Leged both & 2 Leged fouls the Name
                                                &                       

of presedent is to pleas the peopel at Large the sound souts best Now in
                                                                        

the south give way to the North the North give way to the south or by &
                                                                      &

by you will brake what falers be wise on keep the Links to gether and if
                                                                        

you cant A gree Consoalated to A kingly power for you must keep together
                                                                        

at the wost hear it Labers ye les see there is so many men wants be the
                                                                       

all offesers & Now sogers poor king Every day wants A bone sum more then
             &                                                          

others the king cant Live without the feald wee have had our turne grat
                                                                       

good father Addoms turne & turne About Rest Easey you all will be pleased
                         &                                               

with the present king give time all did I say Now but the magor part
                                                                    

fore fifths at least.
                    .




                                                          TIMOTHY DEXTER
                                                                        







Frinds hear me 2 granadears goss up in 20 days fourder frinds I will tell
                                                                         

the A tipe of man kind what is that 35 or 36 years gone A town caled
                                                                    

Noubry all won the Younited states Noubry peopel kept to gether quiet
                                                                     

till the Larned groed strong the farmers was 12 out of 20 thay wanted to
                                                                        

have the offesers in the Contry the Eaned in the see port wanted to have
                                                                        

them there geering A Rose groued warme fite thay wood in Law thay went
                                                                      

the Jnrel Cort to be sot of finely thay go there Eands Answered the see
                                                                       

port caled Newbury Port 600 Eakers of Land out of thirty thousand Eakers
                                                                        

of good Land so much for mad peopel of Larning makes them mad if thay
                                                                     

had kept to gether they wood have bin the sekent town in this stat A
                                                                    

bout halfe of boston Now men mad to be in offess it hurts the peopel ot
                                                                       

Large Like Carying the Innegent Lam to the slarter Now it would done to
                                                                       

dewide the North from the south all won what I have Leade down but now
                                                                      

keep to gether it is Like man and wife in troue Love Now guving death
                                                                     

in the grander you will sous the glory I say keep to gether dont brak
                                                                     

the Chane Renoue brotherle Love Never fade Like my box in my garding
                                                                    

be one grat familey give way to one A Nother thous changes is the tide
                                                                      

hie warter & Loue warte hie tids & Loue tids for my part I have Liked
           &                     &                                   

all the kings all three all our broken marchants cant have beaths of
                                                                    

proffett gone and till the ground goue to work is all that has bin to
                                                                     

Coleage goue with slipers and promis to pay and Never pay only with A
                                                                     

Lye I gess 4 fifths is Coleage Lant or devel Lant or pretended to be
                                                                    

onnest free masions but are to the Contrey for give me for gessing I
                                                                    

hope it is Not so the Leaned is for Leovs & Littel fishes moses was but
                                          &                            

A man and Aaron thay had sum devel like my selfe man is the same give
                                                                     

him power I say the Cloak Cukement maters the worst of cheats we hant
                                                                     

got ony N Port wee are Noted to be the first in the North sabed Day is
                                                                      

Not halfe A Nuf Night meatens it maks work for the Docters and Nuses
                                                                    

Caaching Could but them Lives breed fast to mak up for them that dies
                                                                     

poor creaters I pittey them so preast Riden it is wickard to leave poor
                                                                       

sols in to the grave all our minesters are imported Very good men foull
                                                                       

of Love of Crist I kep them A mit Amen at present.
                                                 .




The yong man that doth most all my Carving his work is much Liked by
                                                                    

our grat men I felt founney one day I thort I would ask sade young man
                                                                      

whare he was bone he sade Now whare what is all that Now whare was your
                                                                       

mother over shaderd I says my mother was if I was to gess No I tell in
                                                                      

Now town borne o on the water I says you beat me and so wee Lafed and
                                                                     

it shuk of the spleane shoue him A Crows Neast he can carve one A fine
                                                                      

fellow--I shold had all marbel if any bodey could to me the prise so I
      --                                                              

have sent for 8 busts for kings and grat men and 1 Lion & 2 gray hounds
                                                        &              

I hope to hear in foue Days to all onnest men
                                             




                                                         TIMOTHY DEXTER.
                                                                       .







mister printter I must goue sum fourder I have got one good pen my fortin
                                                                         

has bin hard very hard that is I have hard Noks on my head 4 difrent times
                                                                          

from A boy to this Day twice taken up for dead two beating was a Lawyer
                                                                       

then he was mad be Case the peopel at Large Declared me Lord Dexter
                                                                   

king of Chester this at my Contrey seet 26 mils from N Port my plase
                                                                    

there is the fist from solt water to Canedy----this Lawyer that broused
                                           ----                        

me was Judg Livermore son Arther the same Creater borid 200 dolors sum
                                                                      

monts be fore this & then Oaded me he beat his bene factter it has bin my
                   &                                                     

Luck to be yoused ten times wos by them I doue the most for I have Lost
                                                                       

first and Last as much as A tun of silver grose my wife that was had
                                                                    

400 wut of silver Abraham bishup that married my dafter ten years gone
                                                                      

him & shee sence then & my son Samuel L Dexter upwards of seventeene
    &                 &                                             

thousand Dolors the Rest by hamsher Col by Rougs has gokbey sekkent
                                                                   

handed preasts Deakens gruntters whimers Every foue minnets A sith or
                                                                     

Christ wee must be Leave in Crist o o Jeases will save us I thinks sum
                                                                      

times the saving solt & smoak & solt peater will in time be very dear
                      &       &                                      

if it is yous the more smoak or the preasts will be out of work Littel
                                                                      

Like fister france I Lade out A blan to have holerdays one Day in ten 24
                                                                        

years gone I thort it would save the Natision grat Deale of money sir in
                                                                        

one sentrey then the preasts wood have time to studdery then hamer Down
                                                                       

smartly make the sulffer smoak in their Nostils under the Cloak of bread
                                                                        

& wine the hipecricks Cloven foots thay Doue it to get power to Lie and
&                                                                      

Not be mistruested all wars mostly by the suf the broken marchents are
                                                                      

fond of war for thay hant Nothing to Lous & the minesters in all wars
                                          &                          

the Case o god Leave the Divel out when it is all Divel If you can bare
                                                                       

the trouth I will tell the trouth man is the best Annemel and the worst
                                                                       

all men are more or less the Divel but there is sit of ods sum halfe sum
                                                                        

three qurters the other part beast of Difrent kind of beasts sum one thing
                                                                          

and sum a Nother sum Like a Dog sum Lik horses sum bare sum Cat sum Lion
                                                                        

sum lik ouls sum a monkey sum wild Cat sum Lam sum A Dove sum a hogg sum
                                                                        

a oxe sum a snake I want Desepons to be Dun A way but thay wont Never be
                                                                        

as Long os prist Riden what Doue the preast prech to the Divel for all
                                                                      

there hearaes old & youn more or Less the Divel I Liked to sade so Divel
                  &                                                     

preaches to Divels Rebouking sin keep it up up up sayeth the hipacrits
                                                                      

mockers of god habits an Costom is the ods ods maks the diffrence I sees
                                                                        

god in all plases the god of Nater in all things wee Live and move in
                                                                     

god he is the god of Nateer all Nater is god take one Ellement from us
                                                                      

one of the fore take the fier or the water or or Eare or Earth wee are
                                                                      

gone so wee Live in god Now Less us all be good children doue all things
                                                                        

Rite the strong must bare the Infremiteys of the wicked shildren keep up
                                                                        

tite Laws Draw the Ranes Littel harder stop theavs as fast as you can bad
                                                                         

trade sheuuing Nine Numbers was Rot in 23 owers when I had hold of the pen
                                                                          

five owers & 35 minnets A sort ment A sort ment is good in A shop--------
           &                                                     --------




The preasts fixes there goods six days then thay open shop on sundays
                                                                     

to sell there goods sum sets them of better than others bolerhed when
                                                                     

a man is so week he wont doue for A Lawyer mak a preast of him for week
                                                                       

thing to goue with week things the blind to Lead the blind so thay may
                                                                      

fall into one Dich and so thay goue throue the world darkiness but foue
                                                                       

peopel have A pinion of there one Not one in twenty as to this world
                                                                    

goods and so it is as to the other world to Inquire the way goue to a
                                                                     

fryer our peopel A bout the same thing only call it sumthing Else in
                                                                    

Rum of a king call it presedent but preasts have money to save sols I
                                                                     

want to know what a sole is I wish to see one Not a gizard I thinks the
                                                                       

sole is the thinking part there is grat minds & Littel minds grat sols &
                                              &                        &

Littel sols grat minds & littel minds According to the hevdey boddeys
                       &                                             

that has the power of our boddeys the same mother and the same father
                                                                     

and six children how thay will differ in Looks complexions and axons sum
                                                                        

for grat thing sum for littel things sumthing Nouw I say I say my figers
                                                                        

will pay Intress money prove it first going over my brige sum more tole
                                                                       

then helping the markett of the town Leeting hoses tavern keepers costom
                                                                        

the honner to the town & my self.
                       &        .




                                                         TIMOTHY DEXTER.
                                                                       .







one thing fourder I have bin convarted upwards 30 years quite Resined
                                                                     

for the day the grat day I wish the preast Node as much as I think I
                                                                    

doue there harts would Leap up to glory to be so Reader for the time
                                                                    

of Rejoisng to goue to goue to be maried to what a fine widow with hur
                                                                      

lamp bourning the Lamps trimed with glorey the shaking quickers after
                                                                     

thay git convarted and there sins washed A way thay stay at home & Let
                                                                 &    

theus goue unclene and so it is much so with me I stay at home praying
                                                                      

for theavs and Rougs to be saved Day and Night praying for siners poour
                                                                       

creaters my hous keeper is in the dark was then bad Crasey to be saved
                                                                      

shee says shee has sind against the holey gost I have Asked her what is
                                                                       

shee says it is sumthing but cant find out way sends for the preast coms
                                                                        

what is the mater gost gost Dear sir & the minester makes a prayer the
                                     &                                

gost went of mostly not all part stayed behind shee has bin Crasey Ever
                                                                       

sence the prest cant Lay the sepont houe many Nick Names three things
                                                                     

have so sayeth the preacher Amen Amen see fath I du
                                                   




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







Noue mister printer _sir_ I was at Noue haven 7 years and seven monts
                                                                     

past at commencent Degrees going on 40 boys was tuck degrees to doue
                                                                    

good or Not good the ole man with the hat on told them to suddey houeman
                                                                        

Nater & walk as A band of brothers from that day I thort that all thous
      &                                                                

that was baot up to Coleage the meaning was to git there Liveing out
                                                                    

of the Labeer If the Coleages was to continer one sentrey & keep up
                                                          &        

the game recken the cost of All from there cradel to 22 years old all
                                                                     

there fathers and gurd inands to Lay out one houndred years intress &
                                                                    &

intress upon intress atress gess at it & cast it see houe many houndred
                                       &                               

thousand millons of Dolors it would Com to to mad Rougs and theavs to
                                                                     

plunder the Labering man that sweats to git his bread good common Laning
                                                                        

is the best sum good books is best well under stoud be onnest dont be
                                                                     

preast Riden it is a cheat all be onnest in all things Now feare Let
                                                                    

this goue as you find it my way speling houe is the strangest man
                                                                 




                                                                T DEXTER
                                                                        







fourder mister for A minester to git the tone is a grat pint when I
                                                                   

lived in hamsher one Noue Lit babstis babler sobed A way just fineshing
                                                                       

his sermon he says o good Lord I hop you will consider what foue hints
                                                                      

I have given and I will cleare it up sum time hence I am much wore down
                                                                       

now the wether being very worme to day Less bray & so went on fire fire
                                                 &                     

& brimstone & grunting & fithing and tried to cry & snufel & blow the
&           &          &                          &        &         

sconks horne & sum the old souls & yong fouls sot to crying I tuck my
             &                   &                                   

hat and went out houe mankind & women kind is imposed upon all over the
                              &                                        

world more or less by preast craft o for shame o for shame I pittey them
                                                                        

be onnest doue as you would wish others to doue unto you in all things
                                                                      

Now fear of Death Amen
                      




                                                                   T D'r
                                                                      ' 







fourder what difrent wous wee have of this world & the other world two
                                                 &                    

good women Lived in A town whare I once lived one was sick of a consumson
                                                                         

Near Death both belonged to the Church very onnest only the well woman
                                                                      

was week in wous & thing says unto the sik woman I thinks you will see
                 &                                                    

my housbon doue tell him I and my son A greus very well and wee are all
                                                                       

well and the sow is piged and got seaven prittey pigs and fare you well
                                                                       

sister this I beleave is serting troue & so fare the well--I shall com
                                       &                 --           

A gane in Littel while
                      




and fourdermore I am for sum foue Decephons but very foue fouer then
                                                                    

Deathe preast craft is very good for what to make old women gront and
                                                                     

yong children cry and old fouls fling snort o ye's and brak up farimeys
                                                '                      

Doun by untrouths Lying and swaring to A Lye stop I am a Live old me
                                                                    

I have heard your wickard stuff you have ingerd my frinds a plenty and
                                                                      

if you dont stop I will call forth one Abraham bishup to put Niklos and
                                                                       

all that trys to keep up Lying if there should be any such stuf in the
                                                                      

Land Church members pant to be fonnd of Desepchon thay are perfect but
                                                                      

if there is any put them with the tufe bourne the Roubege pise on it or
                                                                       

that feare Not wind or filth go by the Rackel breed and wos then tourd
                                                                      

I Like to sade Now shite stink strong bread & wine master botill houe
                                            &                        

is the boull a black man a frind to John mekel jentel man from A Crows
                                                                      

Nest Whare Now where ass Cole cole ass whare whare Now whare o yefs sum
                                                                       

whare deare oilen Now the Ingons Lived there onle that Cant be he was
                                                                     

from hell whare his or was brother came from oyes oyess o yess a Crows
                                                                      

Neast or orgen pouler Down
                          













FROM THE MUSEUM OF
                  




TIMOTHY DEXTER, ESQ.
              ,    .







Ime the first Lord in the younited States of A mercary Now of Newburyport
                                                                         

it is the voise of the peopel and I cant Help it and so Let it goue Now as
                                                                          

I must be Lord there will foler many more Lords prittey soune for it Dont
                                                                         

hurt A Cat Nor the mouse Nor the son Nor the water Nor the Eare then goue
                                                                         

on all in Easey Now bons broaken all is well all in Love Now I be gin to
                                                                        

Lay the Corner ston with grat Remembrence of my father Jorge Washington
                                                                       

the grate herow 17 sentreys past before we found so good A father to his
                                                                        

children and Now gone to Rest Now to shoue my Love to my father and grate
                                                                         

Carieters I will shoue the world one of the grate Wonders of the world in
                                                                         

15 months if Now man mourders me in Dors or out Dors such A mouserum on
                                                                       

Earth will annonce O Lord thou knowest to be troue fourder hear me good
                                                                       

Lord I am A goueing to Let or shildren know Now to see good Lord what has
                                                                         

bin in the world grat wase back to own fore fathers Not old plimeth but
                                                                       

stop to Addom & Eve to shoue 45 figers two Leged and fore Leged becose we
              &                                                          

Cant Doue well without fore Legd in the first plase they are our foude
                                                                      

in the Next plase to make out Dexters mouseum I wants 4 Lions to defend
                                                                       

thous grat and mistry men from East to wist from North to South which
                                                                     

Now are at the plases Rased the Lam is Not Readey in short meater if
                                                                    

Agreabel I forme A good and peasabel govement on my Land in Newburyport
                                                                       

Compleat I take 3 presedents hamsher govener all to Noue York and the
                                                                     

grate mister John Jay is one, that maks 2 in that state the king of grat
                            ,                                           

britton mister pitt Roufus King Cros over to france Loues the 16 and
                                                                    

then the grate bonnepartey the grate and there segnetoure Crow biddey--I
                                                                     -- 

Command pease and the gratest brotherly Love and Not fade be Linked to
                                                                      

gether with that best of troue Love so as to govern all nasions on the
                                                                      

fass of the gloub not to tiranize over them but to put them to order if
                                                                       

any Despout shall A Rise as to boundreys or Any maturs of Importence it
                                                                       

is Left france and grat britton and Amacarey to be setteled A Congress
                                                                      

to be always in france all Despouts is to be thare seteled and this may
                                                                       

be Dun this will balless powers and then all wars Dun A way there fore
                                                                      

I have the Lam to lay Dow with the Lion Now this may be Dun if thos three
                                                                         

powers would A geray to Lay what is called Devel one side and Not Carry
                                                                       

the gentelman pack hors Any longer but shake him off as dust on your
                                                                    

feet and Laff at him there is a grate noise aboute a toue Leged Creter
                                                                      

he says I am going to set sade black Divel there stop he would scare
                                                                    

the womans so there would be No youse for the bilding I should have to
                                                                      

E rect sum Noue won Now I stop hear I puts the Devil Long with the bull
                                                                       

for he is a bulling 2 Leged Annemal stop put him one side Near Soloman
                                                                      

Looking with Soloman to Ladey venus Now stop wind up there is grat ods
                                                                      

in froute I will Let you know the sekret houe you may see the Devel
                                                                   

stand on your head before a Loucking glass and take a bibel in to your
                                                                      

bousom fast 40 owers and look in the loucking glass there is no Devilif
                                                                       

you dont see the ould fellow but I affirm you will see that ould Devel
                                                                      




Unto you all mankind Com to my hous to mock and sneare whi ye Dont you
                                                                      

Lafe be fore god or I meane your betters think the heir power Dont know
                                                                       

thorts and Axsions Now I will tell you good and bad it is Not pelite to
                                                                       

Com to see what the bare walls keep of my ground if you are gentel men you
                                                                          

would stay Away when all is Dun in marble I expect to goue out myself to
                                                                        

Help if thous grat men will send on there Likeness all over the younited
                                                                        

States I wish all the printers to give Notis if pleases to in form by
                                                                     

printen in the Nouspapers for the good of the holl of man kind------
                                                              ------




I waus to make my Enemys grin in time Lik A Cat over a hot puding and
                                                                     

goue Away and hang there heads Doun Like a Dogg bin After sheep gilty
                                                                     

stop see I am Afrade I Rite toue hash my peopel Complane of backker
                                                                   

spittel maks work to Cleane it up----in the women skouls A bout it spit
                                 ----                                  

in ther hankershif or not spit A tall I must say sumthing or I should
                                                                     

say Nothing therefore make sum Noise in the world when I git so ouely
                                                                     

to Nash my goms and grising for water and that is salt water when brot A
                                                                        

yong Devel to bring it and A Scoyer to wate and tend on gentelmen A black
                                                                         

Suier his breth Smelt wos then bram stone by far but Let the Devel goue
                                                                       

in to Darknes an takeld his due to Descare mankind for A Littel while this
                                                                          

Cloven foot is seen be sum but the trap will over hall the Devel in tim I
                                                                         

pittey this poore black man I thinc his master wants purging a Littel to
                                                                        

har ber mr Devel A most but I did Not say Let him Run A way good Nit mr
                                                                       

Devel Cary the sword and mwney with you tak John mekel Jentel man good Not
                                                                          




                                                                T DEXTER
                                                                        













THIS COMETH GREETING
                    




mister printers the Igrent or the Nowing wons says I ort to Doue as thay
                                                                        

doue to keep up Cheats or the same thing Desephons to Deseave the Igrent
                                                                        

so wee may Cheat and Likewise have wars and plunder my wish is all Liers
                                                                        

may have there part of fier and brimstone in this world or at least sum
                                                                       

part of it or Else the gouement is Not good it will want pourging soone
                                                                       

if A Lawyer is to way Lay a man and brouse him unmassely All most to
                                                                    

Death A sitteson that pays twentey fore Dolors for Careags and not more
                                                                       

then one Dolor A week to ment the hiways and my being Libperel is in
                                                                    

part of this bloddey Afare No sauage would beat a man as I was beaten
                                                                     

almost to Death I Did not know houe these men Came to keep sade Lawyer
                                                                      

from quit killing of me till sum time After three men saw the Axon of
                                                                     

the blodey seene without massey and carried sade Dexter in to the house
                                                                       

sun fanting or Neare to se and behold the orful site bleading and blind
                                                                       

of one Eye twoue brousings in two hours at Least Now Laws in this part
                                                                      

of the world for A man of money to Live those I lend money to and A
                                                                   

Lawyer and others thay youse me the wost it maks Inemys then these Rogs
                                                                       

if there is Any that call me A soull and pick a Qualrel with me A bout
                                                                      

my Nous papers so as to pay the Lawyer Craft to make up the molton Calf
                                                                       

A molton Calfe Not an Ox Now the town of Chester has Lost two _Hundred
                                                                      

wate of Siver_ at Least I beleuv more money Now thay may have me in the
                                                                       

town or A Lawyer Chouse for yourselves my frinds and felow mortels pease
                                                                        

be with you All A men selagh finely brethren sum thing more Coming----
                                                                  ----




_Chester, Sept. 29, 1796._
        ,     .   ,     . 




                                                          TIMOTHY DEXTER
                                                                        







       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







For the Impartial Herald.
                        .




_Messrs. Blunt & March_,
       .       &       ,




I say to whom it may concern--to the majesty of the people of Newburyport,
                            --                                           ,

Greeting--
        --




It costs Eight hundred Dollars a year to support a watch in this town, and
                                                                     ,    

yer gentlemen's windows are broken, fences pulled down and Cellars broken
             '                    ,                                      

open, and much other misdemeanors done at night. Are the watch asleep, or
    ,                                          .                     ,   

are they afraid to detect those who are guilty of such practises? Boast
                                                                ?      

not of it if you call this Liberty and Equality. Newburyport has had
                                               .                    

the name of being a very civil worthy place; it is a great pity some bad
                                           ;                            

boys or young men should disgrace it. I hope our worthy and honorable
                                    .                                

rulers will bring those rude lads to see themselves and lick the dust
                                                                     

like serpents, and ask forgiveness of their betters, and do so no more,
             ,                                     ,                  ,

but repent and live.
                   .




Now fellow citizens is it wisdom, is it policy, to use a man or men so
                                ,             ,                       

shocking bad as to oblige them to leave the town where they paid one
                                                                    

Dollar a day to support government?
                                  ?




A friend to good order, honor to whom it belongs--to great men a
                      ,                         --              

friend--to all good citizens and honest men good bye.
      --                                            .




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







Whereas many philosophers has judged or guessed at many things about
                                                                    

this world, and so on. Now I suppose I may guess, as it is guessing
          ,          .                          ,                  

times. I guess the world is one very large living creature, and always
     .                                                    ,           

was, and always will be without any end from everlasting to everlasting,
   ,                                                                   ,

and no end. What grows on this large creature is trees and many other
          .                                                          

things. In the room of hair the rocks is moulds. This is called land
      .                                        .                    

where the hair grows, the belly the sea--all kinds of fish is the worms
                    ,                  --                              

in the belly. This large body wants dressing to get our living of this
            .                                                         

creature and by industry we get a living--we and all the animal creation
                                        --                              

is less than fleas in comparison on the back or belly of this very large
                                                                        

immense body. Among the hairs to work this great body is that of nature,
            .                                                          ,

past finding out.--All we know is we are here, we come into the world
                .--                          ,                       

crying and go out groaning. Mankind is the master beast on the earth--in
                          .                                         --  

the sea, the whale is the head fish--the minim is the smallest fish--the
       ,                           --                              --   

great fish eat up the little ones, and so not only destroy one another,
                                 ,                                    ,

but they are master over the whole of beasts and fish, even over a lion,
                                                     ,                 ,

therefore man is the masterly beast and the worst of the whole--they know
                                                              --         

the most, and act the worst according to what they know. Seeing mankind so
        ,                                              .                  

bad by nature, I think when the candle goes out, men and women is done,
             ,                                 ,                      ,

they will lay as dirt or rocks till the great gun fires, and when that
                                                       ,              

goes off the gun will be so large that the gun will contain nine hundred
                                                                        

million tons of the best of good powder, then that will shake and bring
                                       ,                               

all the bones together, then the world will be to an end. All kinds of
                      ,                                 .             

music will be going on, funding systems will be laid aside, the melody
                      ,                                   ,           

will be very great. Now why cant you all believe the above written as
                  .                                                  

well as many other things to be true; as well as what was set forth in
                                    ;                                 

the last Centinel concerning digging up a frog twenty five feet below
                                                                     

the surface, where it was most as hard as a rock--there was his shape
           ,                                    --                   

like taking a stone out of a rock--This is from a minister. Now why wont
                                 --                       .             

you believe me as well.
                      .




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







WONDER OF WONDERS!
                 !




How great the soul is! Do not you all wonder & admire to see and behold
                     !                       &                         

and hear? Can you all believe half the truth, and admire to hear the
        ?                                   ,                       

wonders how great the soul is--only behold--past finding out! Only see
                             --           --                !         

how large the soul is!--that if a man is drowned in the sea, what a
                     !--                                   ,       

great bubble comes up out of the top of the water! the last of the man
                                                 !                    

dying under water--this is wind--is the soul that is the last to ascend
                 --            --                                      

out of the deep to glory--it is the breath from on high doth go on high
                        --                                             

to glory. The bubble is the soul. A young fellow's for gunning for the
        .                       .               '                     

good of bodies and souls.
                        .




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







My frinds & felow mortals there is A first Cose of all things most
          &                                                       

Comle so it Came to pass that one Abraham bish up got A qanted with my
                                                                      

Dafter--shee A babey he Old in Eage and Larning and Colage Lant & Lawyer
      --                                                        &       

Lant and preast Lant and masonik Lant and Divel Lant he was then Nothing
                                                                        

as for Cash he being A fox and A old fox he was After the graps he tasted
                                                                         

of them he Cryed out fower this Anne meal sent my Dafter home he sad A b
                                                                        

did Not git all the Lovs & Littel fishes but got A part and Now 9 years
                         &                                             

I have Now had my Dafter Crasey in & by the Cose of this wild A & b hell
                                   &                            &       

on Earth o o pittey me All good felow mortels sade Creater A b mad with
                                                                       

Larning & as pour as A snake and as proud as Lousfer he sade his father
        &                                                              

was worth twenty thosand Dolors & he was Not more than five thousand
                                &                                   

Dolors he send for bishup bass to be mared befor dublessed & Insisted to
                                                           &            

be maried he says Daxter may Crye them Down in the Lore Reogon After sum
                                                                        

time thay got published then he in sisted Not to have Any witness went
                                                                      

and hid finly my gost my wife that was the gost 13 yearst Last march thay
                                                                         

where maried I was maried to the gost thirtey five Last may I have bin
                                                                      

in hell all the time more so sence Abraham bishup got in to my house he
                                                                       

hurt me and familey one tun of silver it was the Cose of my parting with
                                                                        

mis Dexter Now I Am free Now for A wife that has A sole the gost was A
                                                                      

gisard & A Cose all Round her A b striking my Dafter on hur side as shee
       &                                                                

swares to grat Lawyer Dexter and to many others I be Leave it that knows
                                                                        

the trouth the bloue he gave hur on the side shee had to put plasters on
                                                                        

her side Neare three years when Likker is in the wit is scattered A b is
                                                                        

the beast or Creater two Leged Conekett boull short Nek boull head thik
                                                                       

hare big sholders black Corlley hare he wants to be A god but what I sot
                                                                        

sade Creater Down at short A quatence I Can prove it my selfe by men of
                                                                       

the sekent magentoude my gesing of the Creater it tourned out According
                                                                       

to my gessing and when I see my father the grat good man father Thomas
                                                                      

gefsion I will Let the Cat out of the bag and give Lite to the blind
                                                                    

sade A b will Doue for sum offess Everye Annemel will Doue for sumthing
                                                                       

A b will mak a midling good CAMP COLLEMON A thing hier if I am a Roug in
                                                                        

grane so be it A Lepard Cant Alter hur spots Nor beaver wont groue on A
                                                                       

houk back I be Leave if my father the presente koue the holl trouth of
                                                                      

A b treatment to my Dafter from her mouth the grat man woul shead tears
                                                                       

with greafe and all good peopel Like wise shocking is the A fare
                                                                




I am
    




                                                          TIMOTHY DEXTER
                                                                        




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




To man kind at Large I Never had the honour to be Long I meane to that
                                                                      

onerabel mesonek Order I Noked once once twise three times & the gohst
                                                           &          

Apeared sade thou shall Not enter be Cose I have toue much knowledge in
                                                                       

my head--I sopose had I bin one then should bin to keep open Dors for
       --                                                            

thives & Robers I have Rougs plentey without keeping tavern I Dont wont
       &                                                               

Now Abrahams Nor Aney of the order only fict Ladeys mared and grat gentil
                                                                         

men that belongs out of the town mared peopol and fine widders I wish
                                                                     

to see with pleasur for I wonts to marey A fine wider for I hant had
                                                                    

Now wife for thirteene years Next orgest I gave the gost fore hundred
                                                                     

wate of silver to quit the state grat Lawyer passons the gient of the
                                                                     

Law Rote the Contract the Cose of it was that mis Dexter that was would
                                                                       

have my Dafter marey to A bishup Cosed the A greement the sole Cose
                                                                   

she has two trousteays which have the money to deal out the intress
                                                                   

and shee is so ginress shee bys hur Neadels I bys the pins & sisers &
                                                           &        &

all things Else shee Leaves the in tress in the hands of the trosteys
                                                                     

I must have A Companon soun good by all At present with glorey
                                                              




                                                          TIMOTHY DEXTER
                                                                        







I ask for giveness of the world of mankind for teling the trouth I meane
                                                                        

No hurt to A flie only when he bits me then I kils the flye if I can I
                                                                      

have bin my one tromter fore teene years my tromter is Dead my haveing
                                                                      

so many wounds in fas and on my head I Doue it to make a good Lafe to
                                                                     

keep my sperets from sinking pittey me all good peopel A men
                                                            




and fourder I maried widder frothingham shee had fore Children the holl
                                                                       

of all there stats was short of thirteene houndred Dolors this woman
                                                                    

groed mad shee sade shee must goue to hell goue ferting for I have fined
                                                                        

A ganst the holey goast un pardinbell sin shee was for making way with
                                                                      

hur selfe in three monts I got the best minister in town to Lay the gost
                                                                        

he prayed hartey but Could Not Laye the serpent only in part shee has
                                                                     

bin Cracey Every sence it is A wonder I am A Live two children suked
                                                                    

hur brest--it is heretarey two Children maried now Live upon me being
         --                                                          

disorded thay beat me offen with Death Cloube & the old gost toue bad to
                                              &                         

say I be silent under serkoumstanes I mus Cout & Roum sell the one of the
                                               &                         

first plases all most in the world for I am in grat fear of my Life being
                                                                         

taken A way such blows I have had from toue or three gost in my familey
                                                                       

is worth twelve hundred hoxets of geamator best shougers Even A saxton to
                                                                         

take the blows I wodent for fifty milon Dollors words cant Express the
                                                                      

bloddey war in my familey three gosts all Noys Robing of me I must sell
                                                                       

with tears in my Eys I Cant see to Rite Aany more fare well I say good bye
                                                                          




                                                                T DEXTER
                                                                        







[Illustration]
[            ]







How Did Dexter make his money Inw ye says bying whale bone for stain for
                                                                        

ships in grosing three houndred & 40 tuns bort all in boston salum and all
                                &                                         

in Noue york under Cover oppenly told them for my ships thay all Lafed so
                                                                         

I had at my one prise I had four Couning men for Rouners thay souned the
                                                                        

horne as I told them to Act the fool I was foull of Cash I had Nine tun
                                                                       

of silver on hand at that time all that time the Creaters more or Less
                                                                      

Lafing it spread very fast heare is the Rub in fifty Days thay smelt A
                                                                      

Rat found whare it was gone to Nouebry Port speklaters swarmed Like hell
                                                                        

houns to be short with it I made seventey five per sent one tun and halfe
                                                                         

of silver and over one more spect Drole A Nouf I Dreamed of warming pans
                                                                        

three Nits that thay would doue in the west ingas I got not more than
                                                                     

fortey two thousand put them in Nine vessele for difrent ports that tuck
                                                                        

good hold------I cleared sevinty nine per sent------the pans thay mad
         ------                               ------                 

yous of them for Coucking very good master for Coukey blessed good in
                                                                     

Deade missey got Nise handed Now bourn my fase the best thing I Ever see
                                                                        

in borne days I found I was very luckkey in spekkelasion I Dreamed that
                                                                       

the good book was Run Down in this Countrey Nine years gone so Low az
                                                                     

halfe prise and Dull at that the bibbel I means I had the Readey Cash
                                                                     

by holl sale I bort twelve per sent under halfe prise thay Cost forty
                                                                     

one sents Each bibels twenty one thousand I put them into twenty one
                                                                    

vessels for the westinges and sent A text that all of them must have one
                                                                        

bibel in Every familey or if not thay would goue to hell and if thay had
                                                                        

Dun wiked flie to the bibel and on thare Neas and kiss the bibel three
                                                                      

times and Look up to heaven Annest for giveness my Capttens all had
                                                                   

Compleat orders heare Coms the good Luck I made one hundred per sent
                                                                    

& Littel over then I found I had made money A Nuf I hant speck A Lated
&                                                                     

sence old times by goverment secourties I made or cleared forty seven
                                                                     

thousands Dolors that is the old A fare Now I toald the all the sekrett
                                                                       

Now be still Let me A Lone Dont wonder Now more houe I got my money boaz
                                                                        




                                                                T DEXTER
                                                                        




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







Now to all onnest men to pittey me that I have bin in hell: 35 years
                                                          :         

in this world with the gost A woman I maried and have two Children Now
                                                                      

Liveing Abram bishup mared my Dafter sence the troubel is such that
                                                                   

words Cant be Exprexed Nine years disorded for a tun of silver for three
                                                                        

months I could Not have the gost in my pallas sleep Not have to be had
                                                                      

Now to save my Life I will sell if Not I will Let the house it is as
                                                                    

Notted as Any hous in the oile shouls and furder in the world or sence
                                                                      

Noers Arke & sence the floud taking in my self finly such A plase No
           &                                                        

whare in the world all gous with it hoses chareags all but plate &
                                                                 &

gouels A Reserve the holey bybel and one bouck more my old head has
                                                                   

wore out three boddeys it would take a journey of Docters one our to
                                                                    

find and Count the scars on my head given by the goust & others Amen
                                                       &            




Joune 12- 1805 Clean trouth
        -                  




                                                                T DEXTER
                                                                        







       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







I say the grate mister Divel that has so maney Nick Names a frind to
                                                                    

the preasts Now is dead all and the pope Likewise and the founders of
                                                                     

mesonic A Cheat foull of war and gratness of hell Dead preasts Dead and
                                                                       

Lawyers Damede Deade A braham b bi Ass Dead and All the frinds of mankind
                                                                         

sings prasses that wee are the grat familey of mankind Now out of hell
                                                                      

Deleured from fire and smoak bourning for Ever Now all in heaven uppon
                                                                      

Earth Now all frinds Now for A Day of Regoising all over the world as
                                                                     

one grate familey all Nasions to be ounited No more wars for fifty years
                                                                        

and Longer I Recommend pease A Congress in france and when wee are Ripe
                                                                       

for A Emper in this Contrey Call for me to take the helm or a Consler
                                                                     

in the Afare of trouth Amen and Amen
                                    




                                                          TIMOTHY DEXTER
                                                                        







P S--one thing further I happened not to think of that grate Creature
   --                                                                

which some fools Call the Goast and others say that he is wanted--But
                                                                --   

I thing that it will be of searvice to let the Thanttron Dye
                                                            




                                                                T DEXTER
                                                                        




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







Scarting trouths fortey six years gone old french war to git men and Lads
                                                                         

to List the prests told them thay would Live as Long as if thay staed
                                                                     

at home for Every boulitt had its Commison from the Lord he directed
                                                                    

them one time when old good mister Emmerson had A gurnemon to preach
                                                                    

I heard him say for Addom sin there was Now in hell milons of milons of
                                                                       

Children Not more than A span Long all this is troue and when there was
                                                                       

a A Drouth most over thay would Call A fast and pray very Annest for the
                                                                        

bottels of heaven to be on Corked so the Rane mit Com Down the minester
                                                                       

did Not say how Larg thay whare I gess they held five hundred hoxetts Each
                                                                          




1805 may 27
           




                                                          TIMOTHY DEXTER
                                                                        




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







Trouth I afirme I am so much of A foule the Rougs want to git my Jouels
                                                                       

& Loavs & Littel fishes without my Leave Leave is Lit thay all Caled me
&       &                                                              

A foull forty years Now I will Call all fouls but onnes men Now to brove me
                                                                           

A foull I Never Could sing Nor play Cards Nor Dance Nor tell A Long storey
                                                                          

Nor play on Any mouskel Nor pray Nor make A pen when I was young I Could
                                                                        

play on A Jous harp it would mak my mouth warter and the Ladeys sumthing
                                                                        

warter gess what I sade Nothing A good Lafe is beter than Crying A Clam
                                                                       

will Cry And warter wen thay are out of there Ellemen so wee the same if
                                                                        

I had Not the gost in my house I would I mean give Lite to my brothers &
                                                                       &

sisters and have A pease all over the world and beat the trouthe into
                                                                     

my frinds houe goud it is houe onnest it would be and houe man kind has
                                                                       

bin in posed upon & houe thay have bin blinded with untrouths gosts and
                  &                                                    

mister Divels there is Now None of that order all Lye the mesonek if thay
                                                                         

wilt make a book of trouth I will give the Creaters but I will take the
                                                                       

Chare and put my frind bonne partey on my Rte hand And the grat ginrel
                                                                      

meroue on my Left hand A Nuf to give the sword is in the banks A Emper
                                                                      

only be still I will take the helm in Love I am A quaker No blod spiled
                                                                       

all in the Love of A Emper you will have in fortey years I may Com back &
                                                                        &

see houe you all goue on & what you ware when the gost is gone and mister
                         &                                               

Divel pease on Earth be fore I will have a war in my Day I will be your
                                                                       

frind the Emper and if I want help I will Call my frind boneypartey and
                                                                       

gorge the third & Dewide the Lose Now take Care peas I say Except of what
                &                                                        

is Rewealed to me for it will Com to pass I was born when grat powers
                                                                     

Rouled I was borne in 1747 Janeuarey 22 on this day in the morning A grat
                                                                         

snow storme the sines in the seventh house wives mars Came fored Joupeter
                                                                         

stud by houlding the Candel I was to be one grat man mars got the beth
                                                                      

to be onnest man to Doue good to my felow mortelz I think I am A quaker
                                                                       

but I have so Littel sense I Cant Deseave I Can swep my hous & git all
                                                             &        

A Noue gelt & goue out of hell is bless Law and trouth and Reason on my
            &                                                          

side it must be done when I git my worthy widdow it is Dun Not one word
                                                                       

of Anger as Long as I Live to a A good woman I a firme
                                                      




                                                          TIMOTHY DEXTER
                                                                        







fourder I Dont have Aney of the Ladeys of prinsbell spend the Intress I
                                                                       

will spend Day and Nite All I have and Doue all the good to please I can
                                                                        

make as much heaven upon Earth as posbel and then Dye in peas A men and
                                                                       

Amen for A Companon I must have to make out this heaven then I am happy
                                                                       

the goue in the dark in pease when the Candel gous out in the--Lord god
                                                             --        

of Nater one more A men good bye
                                




                                                                T DEXTER
                                                                        







forder A grate good man Came to see me Not Long sence I told sade man
                                                                     

I had many Innemys he says be Cos you are toue onnest to be beloved you
                                                                       

Dont gine in Comon ways with Rougs bibel making mesonik order to promes
                                                                       

to pay & Never pay only with A Lye and gine heell on Earth Cheat all
       &                                                            

you Can gine the mob then you are A brother Now I am glad I did Not Nock
                                                                        

the Doer Down my good Louck my god and my god blessed be my good Luch
                                                                     




                                                                T DEXTER
                                                                        







sum more sweet meats & trouths I say Now man sence Noers Ark Dare to Rite
                     &                                                   

of so Littel Laning I begon when abrham was in my hous I then Rote this
                                                                       

world was hell & men was Divels sum better then others sum white Divels
               &                                                       

sum black & sum Copper Divels I for got them bloue Divels this spred far
          &                                                             

was printed in many papers a bishop Cosed my blood to bile thirteene years
                                                                          

last March as when I begun to Rite I sade the grat Rougs was the best men
                                                                         

o o for shame the onnest man was Lafed at & a b being foull of Larning it
                                          &                              

maks him mad to be a Lousefer his Rane is short I hope to see my father
                                                                       

the grat felosfer the presedent before I die the trouth he must know a men
                                                                          




                                                                T DEXTER
                                                                        







I Crys Crys Lik a babey when I Rits my trobel is so grat to have my
                                                                   

Dafter so Crasey the Rick of our Lives such blows with such weapons of
                                                                      

a sudden & strike such brouses is worth thirty millon of Dolors for a
         &                                                           

pouer man to have and others o brous me thay wont my Life to git my money
                                                                         

& so I must seel & be a sitteson of the world it is a wonder I am a Live
&                &                                                      

the burds will Chip offen before I Can git to sleep the Noys is so grate
                                                                        

all hell No more a b bishups he wants to be Deatey Let sade beast goue
                                                                      

once & twise act so Now toue much Laning make Rougs and fouls in the
     &                                                              

Eand Dig a Dich & fall in to it white Rop or a hare Rop taks them in time
                &                                                        




                                                                  trouth
                                                                        




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







This is revealed to me how the world was made with what stuff it was made
                                                                         

with is the question Now I tell the with paper pen and ink and type the
                                                                       

Anemels to be the founders of it with a Lye & Lyes upon Lyes wose then
                                            &                         

beasts or Snaks or wouls or bars tigers Divils and ten times wose with all
                                                                          

Lyes untrouths the world allways was and is Look out for trouth a men I
                                                                       




                                                          TIMOTHY DEXTER
                                                                        







fourder in six Days and verey good and harde Laber I Cant gitt my
                                                                 

monement Dun in sixty Days and work hard very hard & sweet it was for
                                                   &                 

want of maney hands I had No hiram Nor Solomon only my selfe
                                                            




                                                                T DEXTER
                                                                        







World makers mankind with marbel and parchment and paper pen & ink and
                                                             &        

printers tips and Lyes upon Lyes amen and amen the world was made in six
                                                                        

Days out of Nothing o yess o lye Now all troue Lye yess all the world over
                                                                          




                                                          TIMOTHY DEXTER
                                                                        













APPENDIX.
        .




IN HONOR OF
           




TIMOTHY DEXTER, ESQ.
              ,    .







This great philosopher may indeed be styled a phenomenon in nature! The
                                                                  !    

many literary qualifications he possesses rank him foremost among literary
                                                                          

characters.----That unequalled production from the pen of this wonderful
          .----                                                         

philosopher, denominated "_A Pickle for the Knowing Ones_," has not only
           ,             "                               ,"             

received universal applause, and been ranked as of the first magnitude
                           ,                                          

in the literary world, but has had such rapidity in its sale, that a
                     ,                                      ,       

copy cannot be procured, though diligently sought after by men of the
                       ,                                             

most transcendant merit.
                       .




Where can we find a man so extensively useful, and so eminently
                                             ,                 

calculated to diffuse light to a dark and ignorant multitude, as this
                                                            ,        

rare philosopher? How penetrating his understanding! How deep his
                ?                                  !             

ideas! What a multitude of discoveries which before were hid in embryo,
     !                                                                ,

have made their appearance at the nod of his genius! Surely we may say,
                                                   !                  ,

Blessed are the people who are highly favored with the greatest Luminary
                                                                        

that ever gave light to an existing world!!
                                         !!




While aiming at a just portrait of this remarkable Naturalist and
                                                                 

Philosopher, his generosity is no less a subject of admiration, than
           ,                                                  ,     

his literary and philosophical abilities. The readiness with which his
                                        .                             

benevolent soul bestows donations calls forth the grateful acknowledgement
                                                                          

of all who have been liberally assisted from his bountiful hand.
                                                               .




See him the first to assist in building a church for the worship of
                                                                   

God! See him liberally give for the purchase of bells, the ready cash,
   !                                                 ,               ,

without hesitation! See him expending his fortune to preserve in
                  !                                             

everlasting romembrance, characters who have shone with unexampled
                       ,                                          

greatness in Europe and America! Here the subject fails. Vain man may
                               !                       .             

as well attempt to stop the course of nature, as to do ample justice to
                                            ,                          

this wonderful man!
                  !







  Behold all nature stands aghast
                                 

  To hear thy fame from east to west!
                                    !

  How great how grand of thee we hear,
                                     ,

  Thou man of sense--thou eastern star!
                   --                 !




  All men inquire--but few can tell
                 --                

  How thou in science doth excel!
                                !

  Great philosophic genius, we,
                          ,   ,

  The meanest reptiles, bow the knee.
                      ,             .




  At thy majestic shrine we shrink!
                                  !

  What can we do, or say, or think!
                ,       ,         !

  When contemplating on thy worth.
                                 .

  Which hath astonish'd all the earth.
                     '               .




  Great DEXTER, did the world do right,
              ,                       ,

  Thy name would shine with brilliant light!
                                           !

  Each would declare thy wond'rous fame,
                             '         ,

  And shout at DEXTER'S mighty name!
                     '             !




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







                                                  SALEM, _June 14, 1805_
                                                       ,         ,      




MY LORD DEXTER,
              ,




By the politeness of Mr. _Emerson_ I received the very valuable contents
                       .                                                

of your package. A new edition of that unprecedented performance, entitled
               .                                                ,         

"A Pickle for the Knowing Ones," &c. is very urgently called for by the
"                             ," & .                                   

friends of literature in this country and in England--and I presume with
                                                    --                  

the additions and improvements intended to accompany the second edition,
                                                                       ,

provided it should be well printed, would entitle the author to a seat
                                  ,                                   

with the Disciples of Sir Joseph Banks, if not to a place in Bonaparte's
                                      ,                               ' 

Legion of Honor--for my Lord DEXTER is an honorable man. But, sir, the
               --                                      .    ,    ,    

work cannot be executed for the sum named--nor in the time specified.--I
                                         --                         .-- 

will print an edition of 500 copies with the additions, for fifty dollars,
                                                      ,                  ,

and cannot possibly do them for less.
                                    .




Wishing your Lordship health in perpetuity--a continuance of your
                                          --                     

admirable reasoning faculties--good _spirits_, and an abundance of
                             --              ,                    

wealth--and finally a safe passage over any river not with _Sticks_,
      --                                                           ,

but a pleasure boat, I remain yours with the utmost profundity.
                   ,                                          .




                                                             W. CARLTON.
                                                              .        .




  _The Right Honorable Lord_ DEXTER, }
                                   , }

    _Kt. Newburyport_.               }
       .             .               }







       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







_The follering peases are not my Riting but very drole_
                                                       




                                                          TIMOTHY DEXTER
                                                                        







MR. MELCHER,
  .        ,




    _Your publishing the following extract from a letter said to be
                                                                   

    from a trader among the Indians to a friend, may amuse some of
                                               ,                  

    your customers for the Gazette._
                                  . 




A few days ago one of the Indians paid me a visit. After some
                                                 .           

conversation, he said that a minister from the United States had been with
            ,                                                             

his tribe to teach them the Christian religion. He says that there is but
                                              .                          

one only living and true God, who is a good, wise, and powerful spirit
                            ,              ,     ,                    

(this Indian say too) and that there are three persons in the god head,
(                   )                                                 ,

of one substance and power, God the father, God the Son and God the Holy
                          ,               ,                             

Ghost, that the Father is of none, neither begotten, or proceeding,
     ,                           ,                 ,              ,

the Son is eternally begotten of the Father, the Holy Ghost eternally
                                           ,                         

proceeding from the Father and the Son, and that the Holy Ghost visited
                                      ,                                

a virgin, and conveyed the Son into her; where he continued nine moons
        ,                              ;                              

and then was born like other children, was born God and man, that when
                                     ,                     ,          

he was about thirty years old began to preach, but the great men no like
                                             ,                          

his preaching, sent their warriors, who took and killed him.
             ,                    ,                        .




Indians ask what all this talk mean, he say that the first man and woman
                                   ,                                    

broke God's law in eating what God had forbidden, that therefore they and
         '                                      ,                        

all the children that should proceed from them must die, and be punished
                                                       ,                

after death forever; that the Son came and died to save some of mankind
                   ;                                                   

from being punished after death. Oh! 'trange that man could kill God
                               .   ! '                              

the Son, and that his death be of service to mankind--great many people
       ,                                            --                 

die before the Son of God, and did not know any thing about him--it was
                         ,                                     --      

then asked whether his dying would do poor Indians any good; he say yes,
                                                           ;           ,

if they believe; then me say that pappoose no believe them do no good;
               ;                                                     ;

he say you must leave that with God, and believe for yourself--one say
                                   ,                         --       

it is hard to believe such 'tories; if Indian tell such 'trange things,
                           '      ;                     '             ,

the white people no believe um.
                              .







    _A curious Sermon, by the Rev. Mr. Hyberdin, which he made at
                     ,           .   .         ,                 

    the request of certain thieves that robbed him on a hill near
                                                                 

    Hartlgrow, in Hampshire, (England) in their presence and at
             ,             , (       )                         

    that instant._
                . 




I greatly marvel that any man will disgrace thieving, and think that
                                                    ,               

the doers thereof are worthy of death, considering it as a thing that
                                     ,                               

cometh near unto virtue, being used in all countries, and allowed by
                       ,                            ,               

God himself; the thing which I cannot compendiously show unto you at so
           ;                                                           

short a warning, and on so sharp an occasion. I must desire you, gentle
               ,                            .                  ,       

audience of thieves, to take in good part what at this time cometh into
                   ,                                                   

my mind, not doubting but that you, through your good knowledge, are
       ,                          ,                            ,    

able to add much more unto it, than this which I shall now offer unto you.
                             ,                                           .




First, Fortitude and stoutness of courage, and also boldness of mind,
     ,                                   ,                          ,

is commended of some men to be a virtue; which being granted, who is
                                       ;                    ,       

there then that will not judge thieves to be virtuous? For they are of
                                                     ?                

all men the most stout and hardy, and the most void of fear; for thieving
                                ,                          ;             

is a thing usual among all men; for not only you that are here present,
                              ;                                       ,

but also many others in divers places, both men, women and children, rich
                                     ,         ,                   ,     

and poor, are daily of the faculty, as the hangman at Newgate can testify;
        ,                         ,                                      ;

and that it is allowed of by God himself is evident from Scripture; For
                                                                  ;    

if you examine the whole course of the Bible you will find that thieves
                                                                       

have been beloved of God; for Jacob, when he came out of Mesopotamia,
                        ;          ,                                ,

did steal his uncle Laban's kids. The same Jacob did also steal his
                         '      .                                  

brother Esau's blessing; and yet God said, _I have chosen Jacob and
            '          ;                 ,                         

refused Esau_. The children of Israel, when they came out of Egypt,
             .                       ,                            ,

did steal the Egyptian's jewels of silver and jewels of gold, as God
                      '                                     ,       

commanded them to do.
                    .




David, in the days of Abiathar, the high priest, came into the temple and
     ,                        ,                ,                         

stole the hallowed bread; and yet God said, "David is a man after my own
                        ;                 , "                           

heart." Christ himself, when he was here on earth, did take an ass and
     ."               ,                          ,                    

colt that was none of his; and yet God said, "This is my beloved son,
                         ;                 , "                      ,

in whom I am well pleased." _Thus you see that God delighted in thieves._
                         ."                                            . 




But most of all I marvel that men can despise thieves, whereas in many
                                                     ,                

points you be like Christ himself; for Christ had no dwelling place no
                                 ;                                    

more than you--Christ at length was caught, and so will you--he went to
             --                           ,                --          

hell and so will you. In this you differ from him, for he rose and went
                    .                            ,                     

into heaven--so you will never do without God's great mercy, which God
           --                                '             ,          

grant you. To whom with the Father, Son and Holy Ghost, be all honor
         .                        ,                   ,             

and glory, for ever and ever. AMEN.
         ,                  .     .




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







From the Providence Phoenix of December, 1804.
                                       ,     .




MARQUIS OF NEWBURYPORT!!
                      !!







    [_On Monday last arrived in this town the most noble and
    [                                                       

    illustrious Lord TIMOTHY DEXTER, of Newburyport, Massachusetts,
                                   ,               ,              ,

    who has since his arrival requested the publication of the
                                                              

    following stanzas in this day's paper, as a humble tribute to
                                 '       ,                       

    the incomprehensible majesty of his name! While they serve as a
                                            !                      

    brilliant specimen of the gifted talents and admirable sublimity
                                                                    

    of the Laureat, from whose pen they flowed, the virtuoso in
                  ,                           ,                

    genealogies, and the worshippers of noble rank and boundless
               ,                                                

    fortune may derive a rich and delicious satisfaction from the
                                                                 

    subject to which they are devoted!_
                                     ! 




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *







ADVERTISEMENT EXTRA.
                   .




OF THE CELEBRATED
                 




LORD DEXTER.
           .







  LORD DEXTER is a man of fame,
                              ,

  Most celebrated is his name;
                             ;

  More precious far than gold that's pure,
                                  '      ,

  Lord Dexter live for evermore.
                               .




  His noble house it shines more bright
                                       

  Than Lebanon's most pleasant height,
              '                      ,

  Never was one who step'd therein
                        '         

  Who wanted to come out again.
                              .




  His house is fill'd with sweet perfumes,
                   '                     ,

  Rich furniture doth fill his rooms;
                                    ;

  Inside and out it is adorn'd,
                            ' ,

  And on the top an eagle's form'd.
                         '      ' .




  His house is white and trimm'd with green,
                              '            ,

  For many miles it may be seen;
                               ;

  It shines as bright as any star,
                                 ,

  The fame of it has spread afar.
                                .




  Lord Dexter, thou, whose name alone
             ,     ,                 

  Shines brighter than king George's throne;
                                  '        ;

  Thy name shall stand in books of fame,
                                       ,

  And Princes shall his name proclaim.
                                     .




  Lord Dexter hath a coach beside,
                                 ,

  In pomp and splendor he doth ride;
                                   ;

  The horses champ the silver bitt,
                                  ,

  And throw the foam around their feet.
                                      .




  The images around him stand,
                             ,

  For they were made by his command;
                                   ;

  Looking to see Lord Dexter come,
                                 ,

  With fixed eyes they see him home.
                                   .




  Four lions stand to guard the door,
                                    ,

  With their mouths open to devour
                                  

  All enemies who do disturb
                            

  Lord Dexter or his shady grove.
                                .




  Lord Dexter, like king Solomon,
             ,                  ,

  Hath gold and silver by the ton,
                                 ,

  And bells to churches he hath given,
                                     ,

  To worship the great king of heaven.
                                     .




  His mighty deeds they are so great,
                                    ,

  He's honor'd both by church and state,
    '       '                          ,

  And when he comes all must give way,
                                     ,

  To let Lord Dexter bear the sway.
                                  .




  When Dexter dies all things shall droop,
                                         ,

  Lord East, Lord West, Lord North shall stoop,
           ,          ,                       ,

  And then Lord South with pomp shall come,
                                          ,

  And bear his body to the tomb.
                               .




  His tomb most charming to behold,
                                  ,

  A thousand sweets it doth unfold;
                                  ;

  When Dexter dies shall willows weep,
                                     ,

  And mourning friends shall fill the street.
                                            .




  May Washington immortal stand,
                               ,

  May Jefferson by God's command
                      '         

  Support the right of all mankind,
                                  ,

  John Adams not a whit behind.
                              .




  America with all your host,
                            ,

  Lord Dexter in a bumper toast;
                               ;

  May he enjoy his life in peace,
                                ,

  And when he's dead his name not cease.
             '                         .




  In heaven may he always reign,
                               ,

  For there's no sorrow, sin, nor pain:
           '           ,    ,         :

  Unto the world I leave the rest,
                                 ,

  For to pronounce Lord Dexter blest.
                                    .







  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,
  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,

  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,
  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,

  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,
  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,

  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,
  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,

  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,
  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,

  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,
  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,

  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,
  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,

  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,
  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,

  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,
  ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,, ,, , ,, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,,




  ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;; ;; ; ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;;
  ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;; ;; ; ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;;

  ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;; ;; ; ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;;
  ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;; ;; ; ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;;

  ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;; ;; ; ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;;
  ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;; ;; ; ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;;

  ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;; ;; ; ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;;
  ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;; ;; ; ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;;

  ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;; ;; ; ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;;
  ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;; ;; ; ;; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;;




  :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: :: : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::
  :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: :: : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::

  :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: :: : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::
  :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: :: : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::

  :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: :: : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::
  :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: :: : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::

  :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: :: : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::
  :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: :: : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::




  ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?? ?? ? ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ??
  ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?? ?? ? ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ??

  ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?? ?? ? ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ??
  ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?? ?? ? ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ??

  ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?? ?? ? ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ??
  ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?? ?? ? ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ??

  ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?? ?? ? ?? ! ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ??
  ?? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?? ?? ? ?? ! ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ??




  !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!
  !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!

  !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!
  !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!

  !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!
  !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!

  !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!
  !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!




  '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '' '' ' '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ''
  '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '' '' ' '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ''

  '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '' '' ' '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ''
  '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '' '' ' '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ''

  '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '' '' ' '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ''
  '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '' '' ' '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ''

  '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '' '' ' '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ''
  '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '' '' ' '' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ''




  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..




  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --

  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --

  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *




Transcriber's Note: The block of punctuation (on a page by itself) is
           '      :                          (                   )   

inexplicably left unexplained in this edition. Dexter wrote before it in
                                             .                          

the second edition:
                  :




    "fouder mister printer the Nowing ones complane of my book the fust
    "                                                                  

    edition had no stops I put in A Nuf here and thay may peper and solt
                                                                        

    it as they plese"
                    "



















End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Pickle For The Knowing Ones, by
                                                                   ,   

Lord Timothy Dexter
                   




*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A PICKLE FOR THE KNOWING ONES ***
***                                                                   ***




***** This file should be named 43453.txt or 43453.zip *****
*****                                .            .    *****

This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
                                                                 :

        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/3/4/5/43453/
            ://   .         .   / / / / /     /




Produced by David Edwards, David Garcia and the Online
                         ,                            

Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
                                     ://   .    .    (    

file was produced from images generously made available
                                                       

by The Internet Archive)
                       )







Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
                                              --                

will be renamed.
               .




Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
                                                                  

one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
                                                 ,                  

(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
(       !)                                                        

permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
                                                 .               ,

set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
                                                          ,         

copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
                                          -                      

protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
                             -                        .         

Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
                                   ,                           

charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
                     ,                                       .        

do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
                                               ,                   

rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
                  .                                               

such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
                                    ,        ,                 

research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
        .                                                 --          

practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
                                              .                   

subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
                                ,                      

redistribution.
              .










*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
***      :              ***




THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
                                  

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
                                                       




To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
                                -                                

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
                                ,                                   

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
(                                                        "       

Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
         "),                                                           

Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
         -                                                

  www.gutenberg.org/license.
     .         .   /       .







Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
         .                                                           -  

electronic works
                




1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
 . .                                                        -  

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
               ,                                ,           ,         

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
                                                                  

(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
(         /         )          .                                     

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
                           ,                                           

all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
                               -                                      .

If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
                                                                

Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
         -                                                          

terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
                       ,                                           

entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
                                                           . . .




1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
 . .  "                 "                          .                

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
                                                                      

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
                                                .                 

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
                                                  -                   

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
                                                            .     

paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
           .       .                                                   

Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
         -                                                             

and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
                                                         -             

works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
     .                 .       .




1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
 . .                                                    ("              "

or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
        ),                                                          

Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
         -                   .                                        

collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
                                                        .       

individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
                                                                        

located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
                            ,                                            

copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
       ,             ,           ,                                  

works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
                                                                      

are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
           .           ,                                          

Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
         -                                                          

freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
                                -                                        

this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
                                                -                       

the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
        .                                                           

keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
                                                                   

Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
         -                                                       .




1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
 . .                                                                   

what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
                              .                                         

a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
                          .                                      ,      

the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
                                                                   

before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
                  ,        ,           ,           ,                

creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
                                                                 

Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
         -       .                                                    

the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
                                                                  

States.
      .




1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
 . .                                                             :




1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
 . . .                        ,                     ,                   

access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
         ,                           -                                  

whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
                                        -        (                     

phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
       "                 "        ,                          "       

Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
         "              )            ,          ,          ,       ,

copied or distributed:
                     :




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
                                                                

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
                                 .                 ,                

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
  -                                                                

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
                                .         .   




1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
 . . .                                    -                             

from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
                       (                                               

posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
                                              ),                       

and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
                                                                      

or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
          .                                                         

with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
                "                 "                                    

work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
    ,                                                             . . 

through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
         . .                                                      

Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
                 -                                         . .    

1.E.9.
 . . .




1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
 . . .                                    -                            

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
                                           ,                          

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
                                  . .           . .                    

terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
                                     .                                 

to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
                        -                                        

permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
                                                                      .




1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
 . . .                                                              -  

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
                            ,                                       

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
                                                        -  .




1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
 . . .             ,        ,        ,                                

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
               ,                                    ,        

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
                                                            . .      

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
                                                                 

Gutenberg-tm License.
         -          .




1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
 . . .                                                           ,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
          ,          ,                                   ,              

word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
                                 .         ,                            

distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
                                        -                              

"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
"                   "                                             

posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
                                        -            (   .         .   ),

you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
        ,                      ,                           ,          

copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
    ,                            ,                                    

request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
       ,                             "                   "         

form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
    .                                                              -  

License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
                                   . . .




1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
 . . .                                   ,        ,           ,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
          ,                                              -        

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
                                  . .      . . .




1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
 . . .                                                            

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
                                           -                            

that
    




- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
-                            %                                     

     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
                                 -                                    

     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
                                                       .            

     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
                                               -            ,       

     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
                                                               

     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
                                                  .                  

     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
                                                                 

     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
             (                                  )                  

     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
            .                                                       

     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
                                                                     

     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
                                   , "                              

     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
                                                      ."




- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
-                                                                   

     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
                    (       -    )                                 /  

     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
                                                              -  

     License.  You must require such a user to return or
            .                                           

     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
                                                                   

     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
                                                                 

     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
                      -        .




- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
-            ,                               . . ,                     

     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
                                                ,                   

     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
                                                                     

     of receipt of the work.
                           .




- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
-                                                           

     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
                                      -        .




1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
 . . .                                                               -  

electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
                                                                 

forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
                       ,                                           

both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
                                                                  

Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
    ,                                   -            .             

Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
                                          .




1.F.
 . .




1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
 . . .                                                                

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
                  ,                         ,                         

public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
                                                     -  

collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
          .                       ,                  -             

works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
     ,                                           ,            

"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
"       ,"        ,                   ,           ,              

corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
            ,                     ,                                  

property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
                     ,                                            ,  

computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
              ,                                                   

your equipment.
              .




1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
 . . .                  ,                       -                "     

of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
                        "                         . . ,            

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
                                     ,                         

Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
         -            ,                                           

Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
         -                                       ,             

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
                            ,                   ,                

fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
    .                                                    ,       

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
         ,                                                      

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
                       . . .                               ,    

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
               ,                                                     

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
                        ,       ,         ,              ,            

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
                                                                     

DAMAGE.
      .




1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
 . . .                                         -                  

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
                                                             ,        

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
                              (      )                             

written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
                                                            .        

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
                                      ,                                

your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
                        .                                             

the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
                                                                       

refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
      .                                         ,                     

providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
                                                                  

receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
                                                   .                    

is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
                 ,                                                   

opportunities to fix the problem.
                                .




1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
 . . .                                                                 

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
              . . ,                              '  -  ',              

WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
                      ,                   ,                             

WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
                                                        .




1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
 . . .                                                         

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
                                                                     .

If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
                                                                        

law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
                                             ,                       

interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
                                                                     

the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
                        .                                           

provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
                                                                   .




1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
 . . .            -                                               ,    

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
               ,                                        ,       

providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
                                     -                                 

with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
                   ,                                                  ,

promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
                                               -                   ,

harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
                           ,                   ,                     ,

that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
                                                                        

or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
                 : ( )                                              -  

work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
    , ( )           ,             ,                                 

Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
                 -       ,     ( )                     .







Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
          .                                                    -  




Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
                 -                                              

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
                                                                       

including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
                  ,    ,       -                      .           

because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
                                                                   

people in all walks of life.
                           .




Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
                                                               

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
                                                               -  ' 

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
                                             -                  

remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
                                               .         ,            

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
                                                                     

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
                                          -                         .

To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
                                                                     

and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
                                           ,                     

and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org
                                          .         .   







Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
         .                                                          

Foundation
          




The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
                                                                 

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
   ( )( )                                                        

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
                                                                  

Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
               .                '                                   

number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
            -       .                                        

Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
                                                                 

permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
              . .                            '      .




The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
              '                                              .  .

Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
         ,   ,      .,                                               

throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
                             .                                       

North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
               ,               ,         , (   )    -    .       

contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
                                                                    

Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact
          '                                   .         .   /       




For additional contact information:
                                  :

     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
       .          .      

     Chief Executive and Director
                                 

     gbnewby@pglaf.org
            @     .   




Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
         .                                                      

Literary Archive Foundation
                           




Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
                 -                                               

spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
                                                               

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
                                                                     

freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
                                                                    

array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
                                               .                      

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
($     $ ,   )                                                     

status with the IRS.
                   .




The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
                                                                 

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
                                                                 

States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
      .                                                        

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
                   ,                                                 

with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
                       .                                          

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
                                                             .    

SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
                                                            

particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate
                          .         .   /      




While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
                                                                     

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
                                          ,                          

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
                                                                      

approach us with offers to donate.
                                 .




International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
                                               ,                   

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
                                                                  

outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
                         .   . .                                 .




Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
                                                                 

methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
                     .                                             

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
                     ,                                          .

To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate
         ,             :     .         .   /      







Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
         .                                             -             

works.
     .




Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
                   .                                                 -  

concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
                                                                    

with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
           .                 ,                                    

Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
         -                                                        .




Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
                 -                                                

editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
        ,                                                     . .

unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
                                     .      ,                      

keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
                                                           .




Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:
                                                                       :




     www.gutenberg.org
        .         .   




This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
                                                          -  ,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
                                                                 

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
                  ,                                   ,           

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
                                                          .
